on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, thank you, mr davies, for having facilitated the work on this report. if we are talking about carbon capture for underground storage - what we have called ccs - we must recognize that the objectives set - as has already been said here - have not been achieved. those 12 major projects that were set in 2007 for 2015 are not going to be realised, mainly because of a financing problem and a basic mistake: because we have put everything - the financing - on the emissions market and on carbon - and you all know what has happened to that. does the fact that we are lagging behind, that the united states has gone ahead of us - as well as china and canada - mean that we have to abandon this technique? i don't think so, not at all. it is a technique which is obviously not a panacea - no one has said so - in the fight against climate change, but it is a complementary technique which does not compete with renewable energies, which accompanies them and which, of course, is the only one known in some respects, because controversy is generated when we talk about the production of thermal energy, but no one can deny that it is the only known method for reducing emissions in the steel, metal and cement industries, as has also been said here. so why does my group support this report? because we consider it balanced, because we consider it necessary - it is the basis for relaunching this technique - and, of course, because it asks the commission to study new forms of financing, to continue to collaborate with other states in order to share the experience gained in order to make progress as they have made progress. and of course it would also be good if we looked at how the european coal and steel research fund can be used to demonstrate or to do pre-commercial demonstrations of carbon capture. i do agree that all this must be done in the strictest respect for environmental standards, that we must not lower our standards and that we must of course also require companies to meet their responsibilities without any mitigation. it is one thing for technology to be necessary, the only one known to some industries, and another for it to serve as an alibi, alongside the crisis, to mitigate liability. we would disagree on that; otherwise, yes. our vote is in favour of the project.
mr president, i would like to express my satisfaction at this report, which, unlike other reports on energy policy, is a report that looks at the future of energy realistically. as the rapporteur has said, coal is an energy source which will continue to be used. so let's make it green or cleaner. we can't deny this technology because it's about coal, and we're demonizing coal. let's make it green! we have that potential in europe and we must take advantage of it. in some regions of europe - like mine, in asturias - this debate, this technology of co2 storage and capture, is looked at with great hope because it is a very important niche of employment for regions that are in industrial decline and whose jobs are in danger. some members of this parliament have visited and seen the professionalism with which two plants are working, two co2 capture plants, the one at la pereda in mieres and the one at ciuden in ponferrada. and i think it is worthwhile for the european commission to continue to invest in this technology, to do so in the short and long term, that is to say, to provide security and guarantees so that this technology can be exported throughout the european union. that europe can take the lead in the world market for a technology in which we are innovative, we are competitive and we have a great future, because we can convert our fossil fuels into clean energy through the use of them.
mr president, mr hodei is a european citizen, a 23-year-old basque man who, thanks to his own efforts and to various community programmes, acquired training and experience and began working as a computer engineer in belgium. on october 19th, he disappeared without a trace in the centre of antwerp. police found his cell phone, credit cards and documents in the hands of criminals. their parents, from the basque country, want to convey their pain and anguish today and call on the police and the belgian institutions, as well as europol, to continue working until they clarify an improper event in a large european city. they also ask us to push for the urgent transposition of the directive on the protection of victims of crime, because they know how important it is to be able to participate in criminal proceedings in any country of the union. finally, they are encouraged to encourage closer cooperation at european level to investigate disappearances, because the certainty of death is hard, but the uncertainty in which they have lived since 19 october is dying every day.
mr president, last week eurostat published the data on youth unemployment in the european union: 23%, on average, for the whole of the european union and in my country - spain - 57.7% in november, the limit. a youth condemned by the austerity policies of the troika, by the cuts, a new forced exile, a forced emigration: intolerable. i think that these figures should make us reflect on the current political and economic orientation of the troika, the european union, which not only does not create jobs but creates a new figure, that of the person who has to pack his bags again to look for work outside his country. i am aware of this in this parliament, and the spanish government of the people's party is also considering the possibility of withdrawing the health card from people who are out of the country for three months. it seems to me that it is against the acquis communautaire.
mr president, a year ago the spanish government, in a patriotic speech which turned out to be xenophobic, justified the withdrawal of the health card for foreign immigrants on spanish territory. today it is spanish citizens, forced to emigrate by rampant unemployment, who will find themselves without a health card after 90 days of residence abroad. this new plundering of basic rights leads to the kafkaesque situation that spaniards abroad with health insurance will be treated as immigrants in their own country, and that the spanish unemployed, students without insurance and all those of the 700 000 new spanish emigrants who do not find work in 90 days from 1 january will be left unprotected. what they'll probably do is not register at the consulate, which is a requirement to vote. i hope the government is not intending to leave all these citizens, who are probably dissatisfied, without voting. i think that this is part of the sinister strategy of dismantling public services for spanish migrant workers, the only solution being to take out private insurance.
mr president, i support this report because europe must innovate and have sustainable growth, but it needs to prioritise, coordinate and use its resources in an efficient way with the participation of regions such as the basque country, which has been proposing policies of economic stimulus since the 1980s and is currently working on the smart specialisation strategy, having already defined energy, manufacturing and life sciences as among its meta-priorities. but i think it is essential that the commission should promote new european networks of excellence in different types of activity, increase competitiveness, yes, but above all that europe should be internationally recognised as a model of sustainable innovation. this has to be our goal.
mr president, commissioner, specialization, that is to say, intelligent cohesion. there is no doubt that europe's future is linked to its competitiveness, which is necessary for growth and job creation. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. it is true that the scarcity of resources forces national and regional leaders to concentrate their efforts on their potential assets, counting on all the actors to promote the success of the smart strategy. we know that improvement in research is linked to economic investment. so i want to regret, once again, that while europe is stressing the importance of investing in r & d & i, my country, which has excellent researchers, is cutting back on investment to five years ago, missing all the previous effort from 2000 to 2008; an unprecedented effort to shorten the distance with our neighbours. it is therefore necessary to remember that by strengthening r & d & i we strengthen competitiveness.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission would like to thank the rapporteur, mr winkler, for his valuable report on smart specialisation. we share the conclusions of the report. i cannot touch on all these conclusions in this short presentation, but let me highlight two which are particularly relevant for this moment in time, in preparation for the next programming period (2014-2020). firstly, priority-setting and new forms of governance. we have noticed that the ex-ante conditionality linked to the research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation in the cohesion policy regulations has already led to a new quality and dynamic in horizontal inter-ministerial cooperation and to closer involvement by universities and businesses in the development of regional strategies, partnership agreements and operational programmes. but i would like to thank you in particular for emphasising that the smart specialisation conditionality is not a statutory formal obligation. only through real commitment to economic transformation and real partnership between administration, business, academia and civil society can we kick-start the microeconomic engine and mobilise the innovation potential of all the regions. our ambition is for every euro spent on cohesion policy in the next seven years to be strategically targeted and result-oriented. this is why smart specialisation strategies are one of the main pillars of the reformed cohesion policy. we are guided by the conviction that you cannot dictate innovation, you can only cultivate it. research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation provide for a new economic rationale for public-private partnerships and operationalising. this should be a game-changer based on a new culture of cooperation and governance – what we call an entrepreneurial discovery process. secondly, concerning the step-up advice. your report highlights the positive impact of the advice that we provide to help with this process, in particular through the smart specialisation platform managed by the commissionʼs institute for prospective technological studies in seville. the platform now has 160 regions registered from all the european union member states plus norway, and 14 countries registered at national level which cooperate with this platform. platform activities will be continued and stepped up for two more years. the institute will in future intensify and fine-tune its mapping of the emerging smart specialisation areas. this is essential in assisting the regions in identifying possible cooperation partners for more trans-regional activities. it will also manage the two pilot projects of this parliament: the one on widening participation in horizon 2020 and the one on smart specialisation in greece. in addition, the directorate-general for regional policy has already signed more than 100 contracts to provide specific smart specialisation advice to countries and to regions. international organisations like the oecd and the world bank have recognised the importance of smart specialisation in economic development and are becoming engaged in supporting some central and east european countries. the commission is of the opinion that the concept of smart specialisation will help europeʼs regions to strengthen their innovation capacity and their ability to reap the benefits of innovation for economic growth and also for jobs.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs for their cooperation. i would also like to thank the two directorates-general of the commission involved for their support in clarifying my doubts and, of course, what i want to do is to congratulate the commission on this initiative and to raise this debate which, at the moment, is not really urgent but which responds to the need for the european union to have the possibility of establishing health systems based on electronic communication and the exchange of clinical data. health systems in the european union are facing major challenges as a result of population growth, including ageing, patient mobility - not just of patients but of health professionals - and increasingly limited health budgets. i am convinced that ehealth can be the means of improving the quality and efficiency of healthcare in the european union, by making the work of healthcare professionals easier, improving access to healthcare for people living in remote areas and reducing waiting times and also the repetition of diagnostic tests. it is essential that the views of health professionals and patients, who will be the main actors in the system, be taken into account. it is also essential that both patients and healthcare professionals believe in the benefits of ehealth and for this we must provide them with legal certainty as regards data protection. if the implementation of ehealth services in the future is to be technically successful, it is necessary to achieve technical standardisation and interoperability of european health systems, as well as a definition at eu level of certification and authentication schemes. lastly - and very importantly - it is essential that our primary objective in developing these projects is the interest of patients, as we cannot forget that access to quality healthcare is a recognised fundamental right.
i would like to thank you, mr president, for the work you have done on this report, which i would like to stress is committed to equality and to which i would add four nuances. the main potential users of health services are the elderly, vulnerable and those with literacy and digital access problems, and overcoming this reality requires intervention to eliminate these problems in these groups, as well as a profound cultural transformation of health organizations. the digital health effort should be comprehensive and incorporate other related or complementary care systems, such as social care services. respect for the principle of subsidiarity, because in almost all of europe the powers and provision of health services are decentralised and there are very innovative, regional or local experiences, which are a reference in the field, such as the 'e-prescription', the health council or telecare in the basque country. finally, i also respect linguistic diversity, because good communication is essential for good care in the health service.
mr president, commissioner, the right to quality health care is a recognized fundamental right. the future ehealth action plan should therefore focus its efforts and scarce resources on two objectives: ensuring better access to health services and greater equality among european citizens, ending inequalities and comparative injustices and strengthening patients' rights. to achieve this, it is necessary to involve and support healthcare professionals, patients and their organisations in the implementation of this action plan, to cooperate and coordinate with the different european systems, and to preserve the human and patient-centred dimension, taking into account the ageing of the european population. finally, i would like to call on the authorities of the government of my country - spain - to rectify and stop the privatisation of health care, which is aimed at defending the exclusive interests of business, to the detriment of the rights of patients. i therefore ask the president of my country - mr rajoy - to concentrate his efforts on improving and strengthening the public health system, which is the heritage of all spaniards and which should not be questioned or left in private hands. we are strengthening the pillar of the welfare state and social cohesion.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i welcome the adoption, after many months of work, of the new multiannual consumer programme for the period 2014-2020, which should help to ensure a high level of consumer protection and achieve the objectives of strategy 2020. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr rochefort, on the excellent work he has done in safeguarding the interests of consumers, especially vulnerable consumers, and their right to accurate, clear, complete, understandable and correct information on goods and services so that equal opportunities are a reality. i am glad that the programme has a particular focus on children and the elderly. commissioner, you know the program needed improvement. i therefore regret the limited financial allocation for this programme, which makes it almost impossible to resolve the gaps and inconsistencies in the internal market, which have a negative impact on consumer and citizen confidence, at a time when consumer institutions are weakening - for example, in my own country. it is regrettable that once again budget cuts are being made in consumer programmes, actions and organisations, when it is these instruments that are strengthening the security of consumers and users, who are all of us, in short, citizens. extending rights by supporting consumers in litigation would undoubtedly improve the functioning of the internal market. if we know that it is a priority for consumption to be revived in order to boost it, we cannot understand why the community executive is not acting responsibly by providing it with sufficient resources. i am, however, pleased that the financial allocation of a maximum of 12% has finally been introduced into the programme, allocation for preparatory activities. and i congratulate you on the agreement reached on one of the thorniest points of the programme: the limitation of the scope of the implementing acts. it should be stressed that, as requested by parliament, the evaluation report is guaranteed to take place in 2017 - and not in 2018 - to anticipate problems and provide solutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour. during the television programme servizio pubblico of 24 january 2013, lara comi debated with antonio ingroia, the leader of a political party, matters relating to public procurement and organised crime in connection with the bankruptcy of coopcostruzioni. in this context, a discussion arose concerning roberto soffritti, the former mayor of ferrara, who was standing as a candidate in the italian national elections of february 2013 on the party list of antonio ingroia. mr soffritti claims that statements made by lara comi concerning him during the debate in question were damaging to his reputation, and he therefore filed a complaint on the grounds of aggravated slander as referred to in article 595(2) and (3) of the italian criminal code and article 30 of law no 223 of 6 august 1990. for her part, ms comi claims that she was speaking in her capacity as a member of the european parliament and that she spoke about public procurement, a subject of public interest with which she had always concerned herself as part of her work at the european parliament.
mr president, i would basically like to say that the cohesion funds, which were discussed in the last weeks of 2013, focused on thematic objectives. one of them was r & d & i, and the regions had to be prepared by making smart specialisation strategies. the report is therefore very timely, so that, as there is no equal region, the regions can prepare themselves to be able to access this first objective of r & d & i funds, to overcome the crisis and to go on the path of growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it provides an approach to the territorial application of european policies aimed at research and development. research and development must be one of the main drivers of economic regeneration on the continent. however, current strategies in this area result in the concentration of resources in the most specialised areas, to the exclusion of the rest of the regions and territories. better implementation of an inclusive european r & d policy requires the regionalisation of resources to enable all eu territories to access eu r & d policies. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the report is pretty good and covers a range of aspects: promotion of the concept of smart specialisation, its importance for long-term regional development and its role in the new funding period; a recommendation for the setting-up of a smart specialisation strategy clearly based on regional strengths, characteristics and areas of potential, as well as regional choice of appropriate action; involvement of regional actors at all stages, including the possibility of offering them targeted training and seminars so they can fulfil their role; achieving synergies between eu funds, in particular the european structural and investment funds and horizon 2020; and the promotion of cooperation between regions, including networking under territorial cooperation. the draft report was already very balanced and quite complete, and the process of negotiation led to an overwhelming consensus on compromises. our concerns have been fully taken on board. our amendments aimed to strengthen the involvement of partners and stakeholders in the process of defining and implementing a smart specialisation strategy, focusing on regions’ core areas of potential and characteristics, and establishing the understanding that small-scale measures and centres of innovation – not just big lighthouse projects – would also be taken into account. furthermore, we emphasised the importance of capacity building in the regions for the successful drafting and implementation of a smart specialisation strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, in my view, it implies an improvement in the functioning of parliament's activities. the report proposes an amendment to the rules of procedure of the european parliament to speed up the approval procedures in this institution. as the main venue for the democratic framing of european union law, parliament must function in an agile way to give a boost to the huge number of political actions needed by the european union. the amendment improves the approval procedure, so that parliament will vote specifically on the proposal that comes to the chamber, rather than on the report presented. it is because of the improvement it represents that i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the proposed procedure is clearer and more complete than the current one. it is also stricter but still with room for political manoeuvre: a non-legislative resolution, an interim report, and suspension of the procedure for up to a year. we tried to make recitals admissible in the recommendation of the committee responsible but that proposal was largely rejected. we managed, however, to get a longer period for the adoption of the recommendation in committee (six months with the possibility of extension, rather than the four months proposed in the draft report) and to retain the option of adopting interim reports. therefore we supported the report. the new rule will enter into force on the first day of the next part-session, that is to say on 3 february 2014 (in accordance with rule 212(3)), and will therefore apply to the on-going consent procedures for which the committee responsible has not yet adopted a recommendation.
in writing. − from my perspective, this review of the regulation should have been used to tighten the targets in order to provide a policy driver for improving fuel efficiency to the benefit of small entrepreneurs and climate alike. as a minimum the legislation should have provided a clear path and scale for improvements in respect to a 2025 target in order not to simply fix further the low ambition level. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is an attack on the environment and on co2 emission commitments. the report seeks to promote the demands of the car lobbies. the report takes these demands in a scandalous way, asking for super credits for this industry and even offering the possibility of moving away from co2 emission targets so that their vehicles can pollute what the industry wants. this report reflects the weak commitment of the majority in this house to the environmental objectives so necessary to ensure life on the planet. it is because of the need we have to reduce our pollution levels that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − i voted against. the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (supported by the greens) maintained the 147g/km 2020 target of the existing regulation but introduced a 2025 target with an indicative range of 105g/km to 120g/km as the average fleet co2 emission of new light commercial vehicles – to be confirmed by a review. the report allowed for super-credit scheme to be extended. the committee also adopted a requirement for speed-limiter devices as of 1 january 2014, with a maximum speed of 120km/h. in the first-reading agreement concluded with the irish council presidency, parliament agreed to drop super-credits and speed limiters. the council would not agree to additional text in the recital on comparability of trajectory to 2017-2020, or 3-4% per annum compared to 2012 for 2025, to match the outcome of the provisional agreement on car co2 emissions concluded the night before. the agreement was not supported by the greens/efa as it did not give sufficient guidance for a future target to ensure a steeper improvement in vehicle technology and the reduction of emissions. the alde rapporteur, the epp and the ecr supported the outcome; the greens/efa and gue were against. in the vote in the environment committee, the s&d also voted in favour of the deal.
in writing. − today, the european parliament in plenary adopted a legislative resolution in line with the 2020 environmental targets limiting co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles from community manufacturers to be achieved progressively over two periods. the additional incentive scheme of 'super credits', which compensates for the manufacture of 'polluting' models with 'not so polluting' models, will remain in place until 2018, when it expires to achieve the final target in 2020. the european commission has also committed itself to finally adopting the global test procedure for light vehicles defined by the united nations.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a proposal on the consumer programme 2014-2020 which is manifestly insufficient for the needs of the european union. this programme defines the objectives and main policies to be developed in this area during the period indicated, for which it is necessary to make a critical assessment of the previous period that has not been made. the commission has not been able to criticise the present crisis situation brought about by the development of a common market without taking account of the differences in the production systems of the member states. the commission has not yet put forward any proposals to tackle the main economic problems facing consumers. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the proposed regulation establishes a multiannual programme to support consumer protection actions for the years 2014-2020. it follows the previous programme 2007-2013. the imco committee had adopted its report one year and a half ago, in june 2012, but we had to wait for the adoption of the council's position before starting the trilogues, which took place during the 2nd part of 2013. greens/efa were particularly attentive to: 1. have a strong emphasis on product safety and market surveillance, as well as on actions intended to contribute to consumer empowerment and on collective redress; 2. insist on the parliament's right of scrutiny in the implementation of the programme; and 3. make a link with the eu2020 strategy
in writing. − today, under the heading 'security and citizenship' of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, the european parliament has approved the consumer programme 2014-2020. it has my support because it has allocated eur 188.8 million for the protection of 500 million european citizens, since each of them is a consumer. the main objective of this programme is to maximise consumer confidence and security by providing them with more information about their rights - for example, returns and claims - and to ensure that they can make the most of all the advantages offered by the single market for goods and services. any strengthening of citizens' rights is always a cause for celebration, especially since it will benefit domestic demand, which is so essential for economic growth, in the long term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it improves the democratic control of the european commission's delegated acts in the field of tariff quotas for the import of the products mentioned. democratic control in this area is essential to contain the logic of increasing liberalization of imports, which has serious consequences for domestic producers. the report is intended to require the commission to report to parliament and the council on each of its decisions, and to inform and consult the common organization of the market in order to be able to exercise delegated acts in the field of the meat products mentioned. this improved control will make it possible to make the information available to both european consumers and producers. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the dossier aligns council regulation (ec) no 774/94 to articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). it is part of the recently adopted so called trade omnibuses, but was treated separately, as it stems from the remits of the larger agricultural basket. the adjusted regulation was on the ep plenary agenda in september 2013. after a vote on the amendments, the final vote on the legislative resolution was withheld in order to provide for negotiations with commission and council. this trilogue finished in late autumn. the outcome of the trilogue on tariff quotas for agricultural products mirrors the ep achievement with respect to the trade omnibuses in general. it increases ep involvement, right to scrutiny and (tacitly extendable) limitation of the delegation of powers to five years, as well as a prolongation of objection periods.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it recognises the legitimacy of the european union's association agreement with turkey. the report deals with aspects of the management and control of imports of olive oil and other products from the country. however, turkey is an invading power occupying the northern part of cyprus, an eu member state, and therefore an association agreement with turkey should not be accepted until the situation of the occupied territories on the island of cyprus is resolved. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the objective of the commission proposal consists in aligning three council regulations in the field of imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the post-lisbon regime of implementing acts and delegated acts (art. 290 and 291 tfeu). it is proposed to delegate to the commission the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty in order to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of regulation (ec) no 2008/97, in particular as regards the amounts of duty reduction, or where a new agreement is concluded with turkey.
in writing. − following the adoption by the european parliament in 2012 of the amendments to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulations (ec) no 2008/97, (ec) no 779/98 and (ec) no 1506/98 in the field of imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with regard to the delegated and implementing powers conferred on the commission, and the ensuing negotiations, the legislative resolution finally agreed that the european parliament, namely the committee on international trade, should be involved in the drafting and implementation of delegated acts delegated to the commission, among others, has been adopted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it improves the protection of aromatised wine products developed in the european union. this report defines the specifications applicable to this type of product, developing a unified european standard for aromatised wine products. the report allows the use of geographical indications on these products without compromising the requirements and quality requirements of designations of origin or any type of protected geographical indication. the report sets very important requirements for the development of these products, such as the use of alcohols of agricultural origin, and introduces technical requirements for the use of components such as sweeteners. as this report improves the quality requirements and will have a positive effect on the wine industry, i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. − against. the purpose of the proposal is to update the rules on the definition, description, presentation and labelling of aromatised wine products (e.g. vermouth, sangria, vinglögg, glühwein etc.). it also adds a chapter on geographical indications (gis), establishing a procedure for application and decision for protection of aromatised wine products. more specifically, the regulation aims at adapting the definitions and criteria for production in the light of technical developments and in accordance with wto requirements, at updating certain sales denominations, and at aligning the current regulation to the new comitology rules (delegated and implementing acts). the compromise will be supported by the big groups, but we voted against. generally speaking, the whole issue of ‘aromatized wines’ is not very pleasant from a green perspective; it is all about requirements on how much alcohol, sugars, sweeteners, colours etc. can be added to a certain product in order to be able to market it with terms such as ‘aromatised wine product’, ‘aromatised wine’, ‘aromatised wine-based drink’, ‘aromatized wine-product cocktail’, etc.
in writing. − i think that ccs could help to combat co2 emissions, but i am not sure whether all the proponents of this technology actually have this purpose or if they only want reinforce the fossil fuels industry. the report is problematic in some aspects, in that it: calls for ccs targets in the 2030 climate and energy policy framework; calls for a requirement for the purchase of ccs certificates for fossil fuels; is concerned that the liabilities for ccs developers are excessive; calls for revision of the carbon leakage provisions of the ccs directive in relation to the ets allowances; calls for a more entrepreneurial role for member states accepting greater share of responsibilities; states that the informed public is supportive of ccs; calls for the commission to urgently assess the potential to enhance oil and gas recovery with co2. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it continues the absurd bet on carbon capture and storage technology which has proved to be a complete failure. this technology was authorised by the eu through directive 2009/31, as it considers this technology as a key mechanism to reduce emissions. since then no plant has been developed, as this technology is excessively expensive and has incalculable long-term costs. with the problems that are currently being generated by injection technologies such as gas storage (for example the castor project in valencia) or fracking, continuing to bet on technologies of this type is justifiable only in the interests of the lobbies, since these "solutions" generate very serious environmental problems. because the commitment to reduce emissions must be real and based on a change in the development model, i voted against this report.
in writing. - my support for this own-initiative report on the development and implementation of carbon capture and storage (ccs) is because, in order to reduce emissions in europe, all available and complementary measures must be taken into account. the support for renewable energy is clearly still the ultimate objective of my group. but support for ccs, as well as investment in r&d&i to develop new technologies to reduce emissions during the transition to a low-carbon economy with renewables at its core, remains vital for europe. the report also stresses that the political and economic support of states remains the ultimate requirement for the development of ccs, since it is up to them to decide whether or not to use the technique in their respective emission reduction strategies. it is a balanced and realistic report, which accepts the potential of the ccs to reduce emissions, but which does not forget that our ultimate objective must be to support renewable energy.
in writing. − against. the adopted envi report moderates slightly the excessive enthusiasm for ccs in the rapporteur’s draft report, but remains very problematic for the greens. in particular it: calls for ccs targets in the 2030 climate and energy policy framework; calls for the purchase of ccs certificates to be required for fossil fuels; is concerned that the liabilities for ccs developers are excessive; calls for revision of the carbon leakage provisions of the ccs directive in relation to ets allowances; calls for a more entrepreneurial role for member states accepting a greater share of responsibilities; states that the informed public is supportive of ccs; and calls for the commission to urgently assess the potential for the secure use of co2 to enhance oil and gas recovery. strategy for plenary: we will table several amendments to state that no public support should go to ccs in the power sector, and to amend the provisions to limit ccs to industrial sectors.
in writing. - i am particularly pleased with the content of this resolution on carbon capture and storage, a technology with great potential which, at the moment, is the most promising means of achieving the necessary co2 reductions from industrial sources by 2050. we therefore ask the commission to support this methodology, whose technical implementation is slow because of the lack of investment and funding, for example through an eu-level industrial innovation investment fund funded by the sale of emission allowances. we also call on the european parliament to encourage its deployment not only in coal and gas power generation but also in industrial sectors such as metallurgy, steel, cement and refineries.
in writing. - i believe that in principle progress should be made in studies on the development and application of carbon capture and storage technology, but i would point out that for the time being the eu should not exceed a prudent economic limit for further research or demonstrations without having certain guarantees of the scientific and economic viability of the projects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it proposes an ehealth action plan for 2012-2020 which can allow better access to public health services and thus an improvement in the fundamental right to health of european citizens. the report includes a plan to encourage the development that new information technologies can bring to the field of health care. our group has maintained red lines which this report has maintained, such as that ehealth should in no way replace current health services, that the technological gap should be taken into account to ensure access for all, etc. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. since the adoption of the first e-health action plan in 2004, the commission has developed targeted policy initiatives such as its recommendation on cross-border interoperability of electronic health record systems (2008/594/ec), its communication on the benefits of telemedicine for patient healthcare systems and society, and the establishment of the e-health network following directive 2011/24/eu (cross-border healthcare). progress has been made, but the promise of e-health remains to a large extent unfulfilled. important hurdles are: lack of awareness of, and confidence in e-health solutions; lack of interoperability; limited large-scale evidence of cost-effectiveness; lack of legal clarity for mobile applications and lack of transparency regarding the utilisation of data collected by such applications; inadequate or fragmented legal frameworks including the lack of reimbursement schemes for e-health services; high start-up costs involved in setting up e-health systems; regional differences in accessing ict services, and limited access in deprived areas. greens/efa amendments mainly focus on the recognition of the role of regional authorities and on preserving linguistic diversity. most of them were adopted in envi.
in writing. − i think this is not a bad report and can help not to reproduce episodes such as that of horsemeat. it has some points worth noting: suggests reviewing rules for intermediary labelling and reviewing traders; proposes to increase sanctions to at least double the amount of the economic advances sought through the food fraud and to withdraw registrations of food business operators in case of recidivism. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to promote the improvement of fraud control systems in the food chain. there have been many scandals in the european union over the past few years in the food sector because of the lack of adequate control systems. these control systems have not been adequately resourced, especially as agri-food companies have grown in size, complexity and diversification of the components of the products they bring to market. to prevent this kind of fraud, which endangers the health of european citizens, it is necessary to ensure the homogeneity of the control systems, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. this report was decided upon as a reaction to the horsemeat scandal, and to numerous other cases of fraudulent food labelling and other food frauds which impacted the eu food chain, such as the marketing of battery cage eggs as organic eggs, road salt in foods etc. different types of food fraud include adulteration, substitution, tampering and counterfeiting. the economic gain of fraud is further enhanced by the often ineffective sanction regime due to relatively low sanctions and large differences between member states’ practices. we have tabled amendments e.g. regarding country of origin labelling (the wording in the envi report weakens our amendments, but we agreed in the light of the overall compromises), mislabelling of fish species, shorter food chains, the necessity of action by member states in order to address issues raised by the fvo, the importance of official controls, which can never be replaced by industry-driven initiatives, the responsibilities of retailers, the need for establishing unannounced inspections as standard inspections, and the need to publish inspection results, e.g. in the form of a rating system. our amendments were almost all adopted.
in writing. - a few months ago, following the horse meat scandal, i put a parliamentary question (e-001617/13) on fraud in the food chain and mislabelling of products. i therefore warmly welcome the adoption of this report, which is in line with one of my concerns. as the report points out, food is safer than ever, and yet consumer confidence is at an all-time low as a result of a number of specific cases - which we must not allow to happen again under any circumstances. respect for consumer rights must be a key element of our policies, which is why we must act in the area of monitoring the correct labelling of food throughout the food chain and apply strict sanctions in the event of incorrect information on the contents of food.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to promote the development of labour inspectorates in the member states as a means of ensuring that labour legislation is enforced in the member states. labour regulations need an institutional structure to ensure compliance; without sufficient human resources to ensure labour inspections, regulations governing labour inspections cease to be an effective right. at european level, the lack of resources devoted to inspections has led to an increase in illegal working conditions, breaches of contracts, work in the shadow economy, etc. it is essential that the member states allocate the necessary resources to these inspection services to combat this. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. in pursuance of having effective labour inspection in monitoring the application of labour law, europe needs more than soft law to ensure that employment in member states will be decent, stable, healthy and safe. this report tries to draw attention to the urgent need for legally binding measures to enforce the protection of workers and the employment and the implementation of fundamental labour and social rights. this has to start by strengthening fundamental labour and social rights in the single market and by working to promote fair competition and workers’ rights. this principle must be laid down in primary eu legislation adopting a social progress protocol to safeguard basic social rights from any negative consequences of national reforms and austerity measures.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a missed opportunity for the european working class to have access to what is rightfully theirs, the fruit of their labour. the report calls on the european commission to carry out an impact assessment of the financial participation of employees in the profits of companies, but in doing so it defines this participation on the basis of assumptions which completely invalidate it. the principle of flexibility in operation and its voluntary nature imply the wish that no european undertaking should apply it, and that this financial participation should be a sham. it is for all these reasons that i regard this initiative as a farce and that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − i abstained. the europe 2020 strategy on smart, sustainable, and inclusive growth highlights the need for ‘inclusive growth’ which, amongst other things, empowers citizens through employment, investing in skills, fighting poverty and modernising labour markets and social protection. employee financial participation (efp) offers a tangible means of developing these themes by involving workers more in the decision-making of the companies they work for, helping to strengthen good governance, and ensuring a share of the financial benefits of a successful business. the involvement of workers in corporate governance like this can develop their opportunities to access meaningful lifelong learning within employment: efp often develops long-term thinking – as workers become more involved with decision-making and financial rewards they will develop longer-lasting relationships with their employers, giving employers more incentive to invest in training opportunities for their workforce. it is too confused for the greens.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains the fundamental demand to require equal social security coverage for selfemployed workers, it has been invalidated by amendments from other groups in parliament. these amendments to the report have made it possible to soften and make the obligation more flexible in the member states. this has ensured that the states can continue to do nothing. the report points out the lack of social protection for the selfemployed and the discrimination this entails vis-à-vis the european social services, but as their effectiveness is not binding, it is practically nil. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour. social security systems in europe should help to provide protection against risks and low incomes, as well as to reduce inequalities in the eu member states. however, because of persistent economic difficulties associated with the financial crisis, difficult issues regarding the financing of the systems need to be tackled. during the economic crisis, the public finances of eu member states have been reduced, while the number of people out of work and in need of social support has grown. moreover, the substantial rise in unemployment, together with declining wages, has caused revenue from social security contributions to fall, thus jeopardising the european social model. it should also be noted that because of pressure on national budgets and cuts in pensions and other social benefits, the most vulnerable people have been affected and have fallen below the poverty threshold. in an effort to overcome the crisis, while priority has been given to restructuring budgets, the social-policy dimension has not been sufficiently taken into account and member states have not paid sufficient attention to the social objectives on employment and education set in the europe 2020 strategy, particularly with regard to reducing poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. - the economic crisis has affected millions of workers, who have had to adapt to new, sometimes abusive working conditions, coupled with a considerable reduction in public spending, which has increased poverty and the risk of social exclusion in large parts of european society. this report highlights the need for the national authorities of the member states to improve and facilitate access to social security for all workers, recognising this right as fundamental and as the basis of the european social system. the aim is therefore to protect the rights of workers, especially the selfemployed, since in recent years, as a result of the new forms of employment that have emerged, they are undoubtedly the most socially unprotected, for example, because they do not have the same social conditions in cases of maternity or paternity. it is also necessary to harmonise the concept of selfemployed at european level and to prevent false selfemployed from damaging the social system. i believe that the initiatives in this report will help to prevent the creation of labour exploitation and to provide greater social protection for workers.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although i welcome some of the effects of the european union's cohesion policy, it does not include the necessary criticisms that should be made of the new legislative framework for this policy. the new eu cohesion policy approved by the european parliament last november has introduced the very serious macro-conditionality clause, which allows the european institutions to impose their economic policy objectives on the regions if they want to receive cohesion policy funds. this neoliberal blackmail cannot be accepted and that is why, despite understanding cohesion as a fundamental policy of the eu, i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the draft report summarised the new elements for the 2014-2020 funding period, highlighting some randomly selected aspects and stating assumptions not based on evidence. the most controversial point was the approach recommending a single national operational programme, instead of several regional operational programmes. the first attempt to vote on the draft report in the committee on regional development failed, as our group managed at the very last moment to have the vote postponed. the compromises proposed by the rapporteur at that time had not taken account of our concerns, and the other groups woke up very late but finally supported us and rejected the single national operational programme. the second attempt was successful, as the revised compromises reflected the spirit of the common provisions regulation and led to the controversial paragraphs being deleted. our amendments on this issue had been fully taken on board. we fundamentally reject the approach promoting and advocating a single national operational programme. our group was the only one to defend the regional character of cohesion policy, and programming at regional level – and that still makes us wonder. once the offending sections of the text had been deleted, we finally agreed on the compromises and voted in favour.
in writing. − following the adoption of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, the european parliament has voted in favour of a report which stresses the need for member states to adapt as soon as possible to the new parameters and elements for receiving the relevant cohesion funds. in addition, along the same lines, the call on the member states to focus cohesion fund funding on research and development through smart specialisation strategies, i.e. exploiting the strengths of the regions and comparative advantage, was also approved. i personally think that these initiatives are very appropriate in terms of effectively implementing programmes which have been carefully prepared from within europe and which, without strong cooperation from the member states, will fall apart.
in writing. − i think that this was a good report and that the greens/efa amendments made it better. the report clearly raises concern about the toxic substances used in plastics and the waste problems caused by plastic waste. most notable are the following demands: revision of the packaging directive and for further waste legislation to address plastic waste; binding targets for collection, sorting and recycling of plastic waste; recycled plastic to be free from hazardous additives that are no longer allowed in new products; phase-out of landfilling of recyclable and recoverable waste without incentivising energy recovery over recycling; essential to discourage incineration of recyclable/compostable plastics; phase-out of oxy-biodegradable plastic and of dangerous plastic materials and additives; radical reduction and where possible phase-out of single-use, non-recyclable, non-biodegradable and non-compostable plastic bags.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a change of approach in the field of plastic waste management and production. the report presents the need to reconsider the production of such products on the basis of the circular economy, which takes into account the entire lifetime of the product. this approach suggests that plastics should not only be managed as waste, but also that the need to produce less of these materials, which take hundreds of years to decompose if released into the environment, must be taken into account. without a policy to pursue reducing its manufacture and use, we will continue to flood our environment with plastics that do not decompose. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the plastic industry in europe generates an approximate turnover of eur 300 billion per year and employs 1.54 million people but the data related to its waste remain unconsolidated, varying from 25 million tonnes generated in 2008 according to the european commission, to 13 million tonnes in 2010 according to eea. without reliable and comparable data on production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to shape a targeted and effective policy, especially as regards action against illegal flows of waste. it is evident that the environmental impact of plastic is still underestimated. as part of the ongoing ‘fitness check’ on waste stream directives, this green paper offers a timely opportunity to aim at a cohesive and ambitious legislative harmonisation. the first step should be, therefore, the creation of specific eu plastic waste legislation, with related targets as well as the rigid implementation of current rules.
in writing. - this new directive will phase out all the types of plastics considered to be the most dangerous and which are undoubtedly harmful to our health and the environment. we have also agreed that, as far as possible, efforts should be made to eliminate the use of single-use plastic bags, since recycling is almost impossible and is highly polluting. in addition, both research and technology will be promoted, which will have a direct impact on the creation of new businesses that generate direct jobs. i think that parliament has been able to respond responsibly to this problem and i welcome the fact that these measures are being taken.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is based on the regional indication of agricultural products, without the need to create new labels, and thus strengthens the link between the product and its territory. the report aims to make european products indicate the region in which they are produced, in order to maximise the potential beneficial effects this may have on the local economies in which these products are developed. the report makes a proposal to provide better information to consumers so that they can decide and select the geographical region of the product they consume. improving knowledge of the origin of agricultural products can help to make decisions for more local consumption. i voted in favour of this report because of its positive effects on the environment and rural populations.
in writing. − i voted in favour. since the late 1990s, and in response to the changes affecting rural areas, the union has endowed itself with a rural development policy under the second pillar of the cap, although only 20% of the budget is set aside for non-farmers. the concept of a global strategy for territorial development, based on the mobilisation of local resources as part of a comprehensive development approach involving all sectors of industry and all parties in a given territory, was first posited at the 1996 cork conference. that approach, which has led to the emergence of new products and new activities that have in turn created many jobs and opened up a number of new outlets on international markets, has not been sufficiently developed. introducing regional quality branding would make it possible not only to protect these products and activities more effectively but also to promote them in the context of a globalised economy.
the next item is the joint debate on:- the report by philippe juvin, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the award of concession contracts (com (2011) 0897 - c7-0004/2012 - 2011/0437 (cod)) (a7-0030/2013),- the report by marc tarabella, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on public procurement (com (2011) 0896 - c7-0006/2012 - 2011/0438 (cod)) (a7-0007/2013), and- the report by marc tarabella, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, postal services and transport sectors (com (2011) 0957-0034 (cod)) (c7-0034/2011) (a7-0034/2013).
madam president, since the 1970s the european institutions have adopted numerous directives with the aim of creating a single market in public procurement. we are now pushing for further reforms, but i must warn that, despite the energy expended, the results have not been positive. the markets are still very fragmented, the transposition of these rules in the member states is irregular, so that the entry into force of a rule overlaps with its reform, creating a great deal of confusion, aggravated by the fact that the number of administrations, bodies and companies required to apply them is high. as will be seen, this has a very serious impact on a first-rate legal asset, namely legal certainty. i am also sorry that the criteria applied by the luxembourg court are not always reflected in the reforms of the directives and that the excellent historical tradition of the public service concession system, which comes from french law, has been largely neglected.
madam president, i have signed the amendment which seeks to preserve the capacity of public administrations to contract outside the scope of this directive in order to keep non-profit-making third sector entities on the front line of social benefits. it is not a whim; it recognises a historical reality, as these organisations were pioneers in the provision of this type of service and bring efficiency, quality, knowledge and involvement. in addition, they encourage solidarity volunteering and exercise a basic awareness-raising task to spread problems that need, in addition to assistance support, the encouragement of society. failure to include their content in the agreement puts this network of efficient, committed, highly specialised and proven professionals at risk, and will be a step backwards for which the users of the services will pay. this is the most effective way of organising and providing social assistance and it promotes positive values which are necessary for european society. i am therefore sorry that we have not been able to give you the answer you are expecting from us today.
madam president, there are two reasons why i would like to congratulate mr malcolm harbour and commissioner barnier. there are two aspects i would like to stress. firstly, this is a first step towards overcoming one of the obstacles we have to the development of the partnership for innovation. it is no use throwing the horses into the race if the road is full of obstacles, and we know that public-private partnership is in danger if not only europe but also countries change much of their methods and their public procurement. secondly, i think we should also congratulate ourselves on the fact that the fact that we do not have to pay the cheapest price will open the way for us to be able to contract for historical heritage that is not only the cheapest price, and thus avoid the destruction of many buildings and works of art that have been subjected to a deforming treatment that has really destroyed them for reasons of price.
mr president, i am speaking in support of the view that pollen is a natural constituent of honey. there are many arguments for this position, but what is clear is that there is not a single scientific argument to the contrary. the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment would have a very serious impact on a sector which is currently very vulnerable. our duty is to promote the appreciation of european production in this and all agricultural sectors and not to penalize the sector with unfounded measures. and speaking of honey, i am pleased that today, tenerife honey has been granted the 'protected designation of origin'. i would like to take this opportunity to ask once again for european recognition of the name 'gomerese palm honey', a product which, although it does not fall within the definition of honey, would have all the elements to be an exception, since it is clearly known for its traditional use.
mr president, i agree with mr mato and i would like to congratulate tenerife and its beekeeping sector because the european commission has awarded the european designation of origin to 'honey of tenerife': a recognition of a job well done. it is therefore a good day to talk about honey and to say that i will vote against the amendments which consider pollen as an ingredient. supporting them would negatively affect the image of the product, unjustifiably confuse consumers and put at risk the viability of some companies. i shall therefore vote in favour of considering pollen as a component, a constituent of honey, not because the european court of justice has ruled so, but because nature has ruled so.
mr president, i want to give my full support to the commission's proposal, the opinion of the committee on agriculture, the report by the rapporteur, mrs girling, and all the members who have spoken in favour of pollen being a component of honey, as it is. we must protect our beekeepers, they are a very important sector within the european union, and, in particular, my region - la alcarria - is a region that lives on beekeeping. if we analyze the pollen, after many very expensive analyses, we would never get to 0.9 percent, which is what is prescribed to be labeled when there are genetically modified components. so let us not go to that absurdity and bring up the debate of gmos against beekeepers, who are not to blame.
mr president, i too congratulate the rapporteur, mrs macovei, on the successful completion of this text. this hercules iii actually celebrates the 10th anniversary of its launch in 2004. in ten years the budget has increased almost tenfold, although i regret that the path of budgetary reinforcement, in such fundamental tasks, has not continued between hercules ii and hercules iii. we are in any case celebrating and welcoming the results that have been achieved in the fight against smuggling; for example, in my country, spain, the civil guard must be particularly congratulated for all the catches that have been made. we also welcome the strengthening of key performance indicators, although it might be appropriate to propose specific targets, such as percentages or other criteria, to verify the improvement of these targets, as in other sectors such as road safety. but we are concerned, and therefore we also want to avoid european policies stumbling, contradicting each other. for example, in transport policy, we are speeding up and deregulating ports, even with the possible risk posed by interesting programmes such as the blue belt. i wonder, however, whether hercules will be able to prevent and protect against the fraud which the troika itself has created, depressing whole countries and economies and forcing them to sink their economies, with the consequent loss of vat resources. we citizens know that the amount and consequences of corruption are already one million euros. that should also be the subject of this fight.
madam president, we express our most sincere thanks to mrs ţicău for this agreement, which gives us the best of a dossier that is apparently technical but full of traps and political elements. we hoped in 2006 that the digital tachograph would solve everything in our fight against paper record fraud, which threatened not only road safety but also fair competition, etc. it soon became clear that he was not infallible, that, made law, made trap. however, now, with this agreement - i am sure of mrs ţicău's enormous tenacity and working capacity - with the new smart tachograph, it will be much more difficult, if not impossible, to defraud. it is true that we could have done better and we would have liked to have merged the driving licence and the driver card; that is to say, the national authorities will still have to inspect valid data and, moreover, at a distance, but always, despite what is said, by respecting data protection and privacy. in the debate i was never in favour of extending the 50 to 100 km limit, and especially not in relation to buses, because in my country there is the abuse of continuous travel for hours and hours without a bus tachograph nearby, and the abuse by employers who ask drivers to work much more than the corresponding eight hours. we are glad, however, that the burden of proof in social matters is on the company and not on the worker.
opinion of the committee on regional development - madam president, commissioner, we are well aware that european industry has lost 10% of its activity, three million jobs, with terrible consequences. today there are seven million more poor people in europe. this is the x-ray we should always have in mind. yes, europe needs to boost and strengthen its industrial fabric to reach the 20% that the commissioner has mentioned. how did you do that? by reversing this trend with political will. instrumental policies - monetary, fiscal and financial - are not enough; we need a european action and investment plan; public and private funds to invest in r & d & i and in ict to modernise the productive force and structure; efficiency in the use of european funds; direct public policies, because exporting is good but not alone; we need sustainable and non-seasonal growth, and here the community, national and regional executives are responsible. so more public investment in r & d & i, more investment in public education and support for smes and, commissioner, measures contained in a european action plan to re-industrialize europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr vice-president, industrial policy is a flagship strategy, a pillar of growth initiative. the european industry is facing a major challenge because of the economic crisis we are experiencing: short- and medium-term measures. industry must recover growth, create high-value jobs, respond to the problems facing society with 26 million unemployed and youth unemployment, high youth unemployment, social impoverishment, low wages, precarious jobs, shrinking budgets that do not produce leverage effects. a roadmap has been proposed in this report to reach 20% of gdp, as proposed by the commissioner: sustainable development, internal market, opening up of markets, outsourcing, new forms of financing, more and better training, access to raw materials, innovation and technological specialisation, participation of smes; a real energy policy - not a fragmented energy policy - an energy policy for the whole of the european union based on our own resources and environmentally sustainable; social dialogue as a form of management; the democratisation of enterprises; the regional strategy, attention to the countries of the south - attention has been paid to the countries of the south. we need a european convergence of the 28 industrial policies - of the 28 - with coordination of the states, but of the 28 industrial policies, avoiding regional imbalances and europe-nation-region coordination, to generate a favourable environment, growth and employment. i congratulate the commission on this initiative. i congratulate you, chief. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr bütikofer, and all the speakers, all the rapporteurs, the officials, the social partners: many people have contributed to the concept of 'reindustrialisation of europe'. now we have to set the conditions. the council could be here today. i hope that the competitiveness committee will give the go-ahead, because europe must now take the helm and make decisions or we will sit back. i therefore congratulate you and encourage you to continue to press this issue for the sake of europe's solution, for the sake of the european citizens.
madam president, commissioner, i am very pleased with this report, because i also believe that, in view of the electoral process, it is important that the european objectives that we have in this chamber today coincide. i think that this political agreement is extremely important, in which it is understood that the important thing is the industry of the european renaissance, because without that renaissance there is no employment. i think this is a song, at the same time, to the collaboration between public and private research. there should no longer be a line between bad business and good public investment. we now understand that all produce wealth, all produce knowledge. and this seems important to me. in the same way that the internet and gps were invented by the us military and then exploited by society, we must understand that we are in the era of supporting the company, as the commission is doing at the moment. in addition, this project is a comprehensive one, which also seems to me novel in the sense that it is no longer a matter of individual initiatives, it is a complete policy, which shows that countries have much to learn from the european commission. the european commission's policy is original and creative, it is not aimed at certain sectors only; it is supporting the creative industry, it is supporting cinema, it is supporting everything that is a renewal of the system and it is supporting a europe, i repeat, that leaves behind the nostalgia of the europe of services. let us give the firm its capabilities again, let us remove the problems from its midst and let us seek a credit policy capable of giving it the strength it needs, which has really been one of the weakest pillars of european industry up to now. we know that the european commission is fighting for this, but that the states have not yet given up on the old, traditional suspicion of the company.
madam president, prime minister samaras, i join those who welcome the objectives expressed by the greek presidency and, above all, who recognize the terrible sacrifices that have been imposed on greece and the greeks, by this nefarious handling of the crisis, not only by the impossible timetables for debt reduction, but by the 'clearly insane' strategy that is not getting greece, the greeks or the european union out of the worst crisis in its history, but has impoverished the middle and working classes and exacerbated the inequalities of which greece is a painful example for the whole of europe and, of course, for this house. but in the limited time available to me, i shall focus on the difficulties of meeting the objectives of the committee which i have the honour of chairing - the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs - in a short presidency of just four months. and that is why i stress the importance of working hard to complete the data protection package, not only because it requires the leadership of the greek presidency - both for the regulation and for the directive - but because europeans are rightly very concerned by the scandalous revelations of the prism programme of massive and sustained spying by the national security agency of the united states. secondly, the surveillance file at sea, the so-called coelho file, because it is essential to defend the principle of non-refoulement to the hilt. thirdly, as regards intra-corporate transfers (ict), this is an immigration rule which tests the european union's capacity to legislate after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on such a major issue as this, requiring cooperation between the council and the european parliament. but there are two non-legislative issues that also require the involvement of the greek presidency: the first is the commission's commitment to issue an adaptation of the stockholm programme to the guidelines by june 2014, and it turns out that there will be no european parliament in june 2014. we therefore find it unacceptable - i say it again - that the update of the stockholm programme should take place at a time when the european parliament is in transition between its election on 25 may and its constitution on 1 july. and finally, a firm commitment to the defence of the free movement of persons, the greatest asset of the european union, threatened as never before by populist, racist and euro-phobia movements, of which golden dawn is the worst expression in all of europe.
mr president, i just wanted to inform this house that, while we are trying to strengthen support for the fight against fraud and corruption with the hercules programme, in my country there are 200 prosecutors who are denouncing how the pp government is cutting the means precisely to fight corruption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this decision because it proposes to improve the functioning of the european parliament by establishing the functions of parliamentary committees to deal with new issues and problems. the report amends and mainly adds the new powers necessary in the above-mentioned committees, which are allocated all the powers of parliament. the new institutions are given control responsibilities and the new political realities that this parliament must address are defined and distributed. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this decision.
in writing. − in favour. specially important is the fact that the committee on social employment and social affairs specifically adds references to social inclusion, workers’ rights and the issues of the european semester and emu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it reassigns responsibility for the old programme on prevention, preparedness and management of the consequences of terrorism and other security risks. the technical report, which has been negotiated between the eu and euratom, must be ratified by both parties to the agreement. the negotiating bodies propose that the old programme, covering the period 2007-2013, be replaced during the period 2014-2020 by the internal security fund, which would also cover security issues in this area, while maintaining the requirements of the highest possible security for european citizens. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the current specific programme ‘prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks’ (the cips specific programme) was established for the period 2007-2013. it aims at preventing, preparing and protecting people and critical infrastructure against terrorist attacks and other security-related incidents. this programme will be replaced by the internal security funds (isf-police) for the period 2014-2020. given the fact that the cips specific programme has been adopted under a double legal base (ec/euratom), a separate legal act is required to repeal it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes the renewal of the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european union and the russian federation. this type of cooperation agreement with russia has been in place since 2000 and has brought significant improvements in this area. collaboration in the fields of scientific and technological research allows for the improvement of skills and outcomes in two regional blocks with a strong research infrastructure. by enabling scientific and technological communication, this agreement is an improvement for both societies. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the legal basis is the following: article 186 in conjunction with point (v) of article 218(6)(a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). proposed act: council decision to be adopted only with parliament’s consent. the purpose is to renew the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the ec and russia. the agreement was signed in brussels on 16 november 2000 for an initial period ending on 31 december 2002 and to be renewed by common agreement between the parties for additional periods of five years. by its decision 2009/313/ec, the council concluded the renewal of the agreement for a further period of five years which expires on 20 february 2014. with the proposed decision, the council is called upon to approve, on behalf of the european union, the renewal of the agreement for an additional period of five years. the content of the renewed agreement will be identical to the content of the agreement. budgetary implications: the indicative budgetary implications are estimated at eur 550 000 in commitments for 2014-2019.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it seeks to improve the security specifications against counterfeiting, it gives the commission the power to withdraw the coins proposed by the various member states. this is a technical report which seeks not to introduce any significant change in the rates or characteristics of the different euro coins in circulation. it merely introduces the ability to revise these specifications for security reasons in the fight against counterfeiting and fraud. however, these measures introduced by the report go beyond the commission's powers by overriding the sovereignty of the member states in decisions concerning their currencies. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. council regulation (ec) no 975/98 on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation, which is adopted on the legal basis of article 128 of the tfeu (enabling the council to adopt on a proposal from the commission measures to harmonise the technical specifications of euro coins after consulting the european parliament and the european central bank (ecb)) has been substantially amended several times. the new regulation was to have superseded the various acts incorporated in it. in the framework of its opinion the ecb recommended introducing certain changes with regard to the technical specifications set out in the table contained in article 1 of regulation (ec) no 975/98 as well as in annex i to the draft codified text. since the proposed redrafting for that annex would imply certain substantive amendments, and would therefore go beyond straightforward codification, it was considered necessary to transform the codification of regulation (ec) no 975/98 into a recast in order to incorporate the necessary amendments. in brief, the proposed substantive amendment consists of a replacement of all existing values relating to the thickness of euro coins with new values.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it includes a proposal for the liberalization of trade with the countries of the association of southeast asian nations (asean). this agreement continues the usual line of the european union's foreign policy, allowing the boost to trade flows with the said regional bloc. the report lists social and environmental problems that are occurring in asian countries, but it is reluctant to point out the responsibility of trade relations with the eu. although the problems of these countries are mentioned if the trade prospects with the eu are maintained, the negative impact of this trade cannot disappear in the future of these relations. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the report aims to raise appropriate attention to eu-asean relations, which have undeservingly often been upstaged by eu relations with china, japan and india. this situation prevails despite the fact that asean’s purchasing power and size of economy is already comparable to china’s and asean’s political star is on the rise. similarities between the eu and asean carry considerable potential for synergies and mutual learning processes. the report tries to explore how enhanced economic ties can be matched with a more adequate socio-political and institutional framework and relations. the report also presents ideas on how bilateral region-to-region relations could be lifted to a new level. the assessment and recommendations are presented in the context of the ongoing ambitious internal integration process within asean, the emerging political powers and the democratic challenges such as those confronted by the next asean chair burma/myanmar with its rapid transformation and evolution towards democracy.
in writing. − the so-called ‘tachograph regulation’ (ec) no 3821/85’ requires that all vehicles need tachographs installed, to which the ‘social regulation’ (ec) no 561/2006 applies. the commission published its amending proposal on 19 july 2011. in difficult and lengthy trilogue negotiations, the present compromise was agreed that we can accept. to illustrate, here is the compromise as well as the most radical counter-proposals: compromise: block exemption for lorries lighter than 7.5 tonnes operating within a radius of 100 km from the base of an undertaking not working in the transport business (non-professional drivers) and limited further exemptions. greens/efa: scope from 2.7 tonnes and 50 km radius with no further exemptions. parts of epp+ecr: from 10 tonnes, 200 km and many more exemptions.
mr president, i voted in favour of the three reports by mr juvin and mr tarabella, not forgetting mr panzeri, which are necessary to improve the current rules on public procurement, to put an end to the shortcomings of the procedure and to prevent undesirable situations. this directive has taken decisive steps in the right direction, such as reducing payment to suppliers, especially in times of crisis, bordering on economic suffocation, or the best offer, which does not have to be the lowest price, but an offer that respects the environment. it promotes corporate social responsibility by supporting social and environmental objectives, ensuring decent employment and social inclusion; improves access for smes and, above all, combats favouritism and nepotism; makes transparency and accountability the backbone of the whole process to avoid over-costing and abuse and, above all, makes the use of public money a responsible and effective use.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a commitment to privatisation and liberalisation of public sector concession award at european union level. the lack of common procurement rules in the member states has justified the european commission's proposal on this subject. the proposal was strongly opposed by almost all political groups; although the level was lowered, the criterion of introducing the principles of the common market in the management of public procurement was maintained. the final proposal includes many improvements, but europe needs an agenda to get public services back on track. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − in favour. the exclusion of water services is a major success not only for the greens but also for european democracy as it results both from our work within the parliament and from the mobilisation of civil society which led to the first ever successful european citizens’ initiative, showing that convergent actions inside and outside parliament can contribute to real policy changes. the main reasons for our opposition have now disappeared, in particular with the exclusion of water services and with a reasonable solution for public-public cooperation. although we are still not convinced that this directive brings any added value, we suggest acknowledging the success achieved and support the final text.
i would like to say, mr president, that i am one of the 40 signatories of the amendment to this report by mr tarabella, because we were missing an amendment so that all those social non-profit organizations which are involved in the disability sector - in particular in spain, in my region, the balearic islands, and also in other regions of spain - and which, with the efforts of parents, have set up day centres and residences for disabled people, can guarantee the quality of the service they provide. the permanence of the service is very important for all these groups: the psychologist, the pedagogue and the technical team must always be the same and their continuity must be guaranteed. to apply this directive to them too strictly and have them go through the competitive phase would be pointless and would destroy many years of very good work, of exemplary work by the entities in the balearic islands and the rest of spain.
i would like to congratulate mr president and say to all the citizens of europe that the right to take account of aesthetic and environmental quality in public and contracting has finally been recognised. we have seen many buildings destroyed, we have seen many works of art destroyed precisely because contracts have been made at the lowest price. this means that we have prevented skilled people, companies with the ability, with the technical knowledge, from destroying works of art. i understand that both cities and architecture require knowledge, an understanding of the work, and this is good news for europe's historical heritage. and so i think we should recommend that when countries transpose this directive they take into account that cultural heritage is a value that cannot be 'built' and that aesthetic and quality values are above money.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it represents a substantial improvement in the rules on public procurement, it retains clauses which can be avoided by economic operators through subcontracting. the report contains important developments in the field of public procurement; until now, award was based only on price and this report introduces that contracts should also be awarded according to the objectives of society, for example by giving priority to small and medium-sized enterprises, respect for labour rights in contracting companies, etc. however, price remains the main variable and the conditions set can be avoided through subcontracting. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the outcome is satisfactory because it brings more opportunities for sustainable procurement procedures: social and environmental award criteria, life-cycle cost instead of lowest price, possibility of using sustainability labels. in terms of simplifying the rules, the outcome could have been better, but we have ensured enough room for manoeuvre for public authorities and at least avoided the worst risks which would have made local public-public cooperation much more uncertain. in order to adopt the directives the text of the compromise must be unchanged; therefore we will table no amendment and we recommend voting in favour of both reports.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that parliament has adopted the new community rules on public procurement and concessions. this will bring transparency, security and flexibility to public procurement and also give public authorities more freedom to choose the best tender, not necessarily the lowest, but the most appropriate one taking into account the particularities of each concession. the new measures will make it easier for both bidders and contractors to reach joint solutions on tenders, ensure that citizens' money is allocated more efficiently and avoid abuse and discrimination in such tenders.
in writing. - i am in favour of the new regulatory package, but i warn that the results of so many reforms of the public procurement directives are not positive: markets remain fragmented, the transposition of these rules in the states is irregular, the entry into force of a rule overlaps with its reform, and all this creates a great deal of confusion which endangers legal certainty. i regret that some of the criteria applied by the luxembourg court of justice are not always reflected in the reform of the directives and i also regret that traditional french law has not been given the support it deserves in all these reforms.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it continues to introduce the neoliberal line pursued by the european commission, which seeks to promote the privatisation of essential public services. this report includes provisions allowing for the privatised management of public services which have proven to be more efficient under a public management system. the proposal contained in this report is an encouragement to privatisation, an impulse which the governments of the member states will take advantage of to propose the outsourcing of these fundamental services, namely water, energy, transport and postal services. without an explicit defence of the need for the public nature of these services, i cannot support this report. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. − in favour. the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplification of the rules on the one hand and, on the other, sound, effective procedures related to innovative, sustainable award criteria, while also securing a higher rate of sme participation and making wider use of e-procurement. the aim should be to exploit the potential of public procurement to the full within the single market in order to foster sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion. given that public procurement makes up quite a substantial proportion of the economy (accounting for an estimated 19 % of eu gdp), the successful revision and enforcement of public procurement rules would do much to revitalise investment in the real economy and overcome europe’s economic crisis. parliament welcomes the commission proposals, which, in its view, put forward some interesting new principles and ideas. they need, however, to be improved in order to achieve the best possible result.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a strategy of privatising public services in all regions of the european union. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind by the current crisis. it is a neo-colonial manoeuvre to impose conditions on european companies for access to public contracts in third countries, a blackmail manoeuvre using access to the common market as a weapon. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − against. we tabled a rejection amendment: this regulation harmonises the rules regulating access to eu public procurement on the basis of the openness-by-default principle, thereby ruling out the possibility to intervene at local level on the basis of other principles and instruments. this underlying principle is not acceptable since it rules out the possibility to use public procurement for strategic purposes, besides purely offensive goals. by introducing this principle, the eu would, yet again, be the exception as compared to all other countries. moreover, the eur 5 million threshold poses problems with respect to smes: under the threshold it would not be possible to adopt any restriction whatsoever, but that is the relevant market for smes. it therefore appears that this is an instrument mostly at the service of the eu’s big industrial groups.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, because of the amendments proposed by the more conservative groups, it has become an instrument for solving the problems arising from the introduction of genetically modified organisms. if there is contamination of honey with pollen from gm crops, consumers should have the right to be informed of this type of contamination. with this report, pollen is now considered a natural component and therefore should not be included in the labelling, thus allowing this type of contamination with gm crops not to be labelled. the fact that it allows this pollution to spread and conceals the harmful effects of gmos is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − against. this vote is a sting for european beekeepers and consumers. the ecj ruled in 2011 that honey contaminated with genetically modified pollen would have to be labelled as such under eu legislation. in response, the commission presented a revision of eu legislation on honey, proposing that the presence of gm pollen in honey would not need to be indicated on the label, turning the ruling on its head. we regret the failure of a majority of meps to overturn this proposal. with eu countries importing honey from gm producing countries and two of the main eu honey-producing member states (spain and romania) having authorised the production of this gm maize, honey contaminated with gm pollen will increasingly be available on our shop shelves. honey containing gm pollen should be labelled as such, both to provide certainty for consumers and beekeepers. regrettably, a majority of meps were swayed by an intense lobbying campaign, led by honey importers. the vote is a slap in the face for european consumers and beekeepers, who have again and again spoken out in favour of transparent labelling rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european commission proposal and not in favour of the report of parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), given that parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development was in favour of the commission proposal and that the vote of the envi committee had not been unanimous. i would have sought a consensus solution: to indicate the percentage of pollen contained in honey (if it has too much, it degrades its quality and is a consumer fraud). it is also essential to take measures to deal with the problem of coexistence of crops, and this requires compliance with the necessary identification of gm crops, which is not complied with in all member states.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation and improvement of the hercule iii programme is what this report calls for, and i am in favour of it. the fight against corruption and money laundering is one of the objectives of european action. it requires a constant commitment, monitoring and reporting of results, in order to be able to verify their effectiveness and, if necessary, to evaluate corrective actions. this is the spirit of the text we voted for, in line with the need to protect the financial interests of the european union more and more.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the hercules programme has become an important instrument for the protection of the european union's financial interests. the third temporary extension of the hercules programme, hercules iii seeks to integrate the lessons of previous programmes to further improve the fight against fraud or any illegal activity that harms the eu's financial interests. this programme is carried out in collaboration with the other european institutions responsible in this field, such as olaf or the respective national financial control institutions. the control of public expenditure in the union is essential to ensure the functioning of the european project, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. the commission conducted a review of the achievements of the hercule ii programme which reports on its inputs and outputs. the commission should ensure that by the end of 2014 the full impact of the hercule ii programme and the achievement of its objectives are identified in an external independent report, the results of which should be used to modify and improve the execution of the hercule iii programme (the programme).
in writing. the hercules iii programme will replace hercules ii and will have a budget of over eur 104 million to promote the fight against fraudulent or smuggling activities. the new regulation will require greater transparency and analysis of the results obtained. the new measures include the system for the recognition of registration plates and the detection or tracing of false and falsified documents, which will help to reduce or eliminate this type of criminal activity. i am glad that this programme has been adopted, which will help to prevent this kind of activity from taking place - as it is very damaging to europe - and which will in turn provide greater security for all kinds of transactions and activities.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains points aimed at improving this type of statistics, it stresses the need to reduce the costs of producing this type of information. this is a technical report which regulates the delegation of powers to the european commission in the process of compiling data in the field of trade between member states of the union. the report makes positive points, such as the control of these powers after five years, improved coordination with the statistical services of the member states, etc. however, i did not vote in favour because it mainly affects the cost of information, which can reduce the quality of information.
in writing. − in favour. apart from some more political amendments by s&d to link the regulation to tax collection, which we supported but were not carried, the report is limited to calls for cost efficiency and free of charge transfer of data. the only important point concerns the extension of the time given to co-legislators, a generalised econ position in all files: ‘a delegated act adopted [...] shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the european parliament or the council within a period of three months of notification of that act to the european parliament and the council or if, before the expiry of that period, the european parliament and the council have both informed the commission that they will not object. that period shall be extended by three months at the initiative of the european parliament or the council’.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because wildlife trafficking is a form of smuggling which has one of the largest markets and transit routes in europe for the whole world. the resolution presents the reality of trafficking in this type of species, which turns out to be a large market within the member states of the european union. the resolution then goes on to support initiatives to combat this type of trafficking, cooperation between the member states and interpol to tackle it, etc. all the measures proposed are necessary measures which the states must follow in order to put an effective fight against this criminal reality. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. parliament calls for the establishment of a specialised wildlife crime unit within europol, which would have full transnational powers and responsibilities as well as sufficient and skilled human resources and adequate funding, with a view to centralising information and analysis and coordinating investigations, the result being more joint investigations and a more coordinated strategic approach. we also call for connections between local inspection bodies in the member states and international inspection bodies to be optimised and enhanced, in order to improve the exchange of information and thus increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the local inspectors’ work.
it is a great honour for me to welcome the members of a delegation from the national assembly of the republic of korea, chaired by mr mikyung lee, who have just taken their seats in the official gallery. as you all know, the republic of korea has become a strategic and priority partner for the european union. we share many core values and cooperate with it on important global challenges. on the other hand, as you will recall, we signed a very comprehensive free trade agreement which entered into force in july 2011 and was also the first agreement to require the approval of the european parliament, in accordance with the new rules established by the treaties. we warmly welcome these friends, with whom i shall also be having dinner tonight and thus sharing comments and reflections on the situation in your country, the situation on the korean peninsula and, above all, the prospects in the european union, and in particular in our parliament, in view of the elections, the challenge posed by the elections scheduled for may. welcome then our korean friends and colleagues.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on respect for the fundamental right of free movement in the eu (2013/2960 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, we are talking about respect for the fundamental right to free movement of persons, but it is impossible to take it seriously enough if we do not also talk about its context and background. and the context is that of a crisis such as the european union has never known, a crisis in which demagogy, populism and rabid euro-phobia are galloping on the backs of the suffering of the weakest, a crisis which affects all rights and freedoms, and of course affects the free movement of persons, which is subject to an unprecedented attack by irresponsible approaches. you have spoken of the abuses of the social benefits system, but also of the feeling of abuse, and we must also attack that feeling, that presumption of abuse which in many cases has no correspondence with reality, which is agitated by irresponsible and opportunistic speeches, as well as by media which lack the truth. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. and it must also be said that, in this context of crisis, the culture of hatred of the different and the other, the exploitation of scapegoats and a cruel and darwinian competition for scarce social resources have been unleashed, which has led many governments - including my own - to cut social benefits. last episode: the withdrawal of the health coverage card to those who leave for a few months three months the country and move to another in search of job opportunities. so it is a very serious situation and we have an opportunity to rescue europe, the best europe: the elections in may 2014. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the only institution in the world which has been able to do so.
mr president, the end of the moratoriums on free movement for bulgarian and romanian workers is another step in the construction of the european project and in the equalization of all community citizens. we cannot ask third countries for reciprocity and equal treatment if we are not the first to do so, and bulgaria and romania are rightly european and community. free movement is without doubt one of the great achievements of european citizenship. if capital, services, goods, goods and, of course, ideas circulate, how can it be that people do not move freely? we do not want such an important freedom to be violated, and that, mr president, is not incompatible with your defence. it is in no way compatible with that defence, nor with taking action against possible irregularities or abuses. we have worked hard to build what we are today and we cannot allow extremist and populist speeches to take shape and ignite national debates. the economic crisis we are going through cannot be a pretext for limiting rights, but must be an incentive to strengthen our economies and to face the challenges we have to face. the fact is that 14 million european citizens contribute in some way to the revenue of the community budgets of the 28 member states, and that is an irrefutable truth.
mr president, the maltese government's programme to bring in investment in exchange for citizenship is unacceptable. firstly, from the point of view of european security, it may open the door to the development of criminal activities such as money laundering. secondly, at community level it would mean access to european citizenship with rights and all that this entails, breaking the existing rules and breaking the trust between member states. it would also mean recognising that the right to citizenship is a commodity that can be bought and sold, and not a commodity that sustains the vitality of the union. no single state can invade the civil codes of the other 27 or the community law of all of them.
mr president, commissioner, when there is political will, anything is possible. kosovo is developing positively because citizens' decisions are state when they are institutionalised in democracy. five member states - including spain - do not recognise it. they do not accept for others the same democratic principle that gave them their origin. the keys to the success of our union as an agent of peace and progress are dialogue, freedom and democracy. from this position, we also need to look inward and propose solutions to a real problem. because in our union there are national issues in scotland, in catalonia, in flanders, in the basque country and elsewhere. and this is also a european problem. it affects the structure of our common institutions and the fundamental rights of european citizens who want to remain european citizens. in europe, neither debate can be prevented nor positions imposed. and we propose and offer from the basque country, from euskadi, one of those stateless nations, to work on a european response to these tensions, fundamental to an enlargement within the strength of our union. accept our help.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr preda, for his work. at the beginning of the new year 2014, we are again discussing enlargement policy in this house, with the case of iceland - for me, one of the most positive and fruitful aspects of the european union's trajectory, and i include the great enlargement of this century, whereby we have gone from 15 to 28 member states. iceland is also included in this process through negotiations that started, i think, in july 2010. and it is up to the icelandic authorities and the icelandic people - if a referendum is called - to decide on membership. the european union has not decided to stop the process, which has made significant progress in recent years, the commissioner reminded us of the provisional closure of 11 chapters. the european union, i believe, continues to welcome the entry of iceland, a european country with a long democratic tradition, which meets the copenhagen criteria and is part of the european economic area and the schengen area. in addition, iceland's accession would strengthen the union's northern outlook and its accession would also contribute - and this is very important for my country, spain, and for the autonomous community to which i belong, galicia - to the strengthening of the fisheries sector in the european union, which we know occupies a very important place in iceland. but neither the european union nor the european parliament can take the place of iceland's historic decision to join the great common project of the european union, and this of course implies the full incorporation of the principles and acquis communautaire. but in any case, it is up to iceland to decide.
madam president, this parliament, on behalf of over three million people in need of humanitarian aid, the more than 200 000 displaced people and the families of the thousands who have already died, urgently calls on the government of south sudan and the other parties to the ethnic conflict to immediately cease attacks on civilians and public property, to enter into dialogue and to put in place a road map towards peace. the people of south sudan, after years of civil war with their northern brother country that has caused more than two million deaths and with hope in their new nation, are no longer satisfied with mere truces or declarations of ceasefire. its decimated population is paying with blood and is crying out urgently for a solution to this war and the serious problem of hunger, and for the establishment of a real state governed by the rule of law to safeguard its security, infrastructure and the development of this young nation. a path to peace which, today, requires the urgent opening of a humanitarian corridor and which, in the medium term, requires disarmament, an end to corruption and the fight against impunity. reconciliation means ensuring that those responsible for serious human rights violations and crimes against humanity are held personally accountable. the union's role must be more proactive and must accompany the efforts being made by the african union to prevent the conflict from escalating into civil war. the union must ensure its active presence at the negotiating table and continue to work together with the government of south sudan for a lasting peace.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, commissioner de gucht is unfortunately not available for tonight’s joint debate on the future of two of our older free trade agreements – with mexico and chile. i am therefore pleased to represent the european commission. to start with mexico: the eu is the country’s second-largest export market after the us and its third-largest source of imports. the volume of trade flows between the eu and mexico has been continuously increasing in the past 10 years. recent reforms in mexico have created interesting perspectives for european companies in areas such as telecommunications and energy. the commission is firmly in favour of further developing trade and investment relations with mexico and is currently discussing with its mexican counterparts how to do so. there is now a consensus that the upgrade should cover the eu-mexico agreement as a whole and that an eu-mexico joint working group should be established to that effect. a first meeting of the subgroup on trade took place last october in brussels. the parties considered the potential for modernising the agreement in the area of tariffs, trade in services, intellectual property rights (including geographical indications), rules of origin/trade facilitation, sanitary and phytosanitary measures and technical barriers to trade. a second meeting is foreseen in february in mexico city, where the parties will continue exploring the possibility for modernising the agreement. key areas for discussion will be government procurement, competition, investment protection, trade and investment in energy, trade defence instruments, dispute settlement and sustainable development. on the basis of these two meetings, a joint vision report will be produced to take stock of the situation. in the meantime, the commission has launched an evaluation of the effects of the trade pillar of the current agreement and the effects of a possible modernised agreement in a number of areas, including those mentioned in the honourable member’s question. the study will examine the social and economic impacts, both in mexico and in the eu, especially with respect to employment, wages, household income, labour standards, poverty reduction and human rights. it will also assess the environmental impact and, in particular, whether it has contributed to the greening of the economy. the study will also aim to quantify all remaining trade barriers, especially non-tariff ones, and assess the extent to which they could be addressed in a modernised agreement and the related social and environmental impacts. a decision by the commission to recommend opening negotiations will depend on the outcome of these exploratory talks with mexico, on the completeness and the level of ambition of the joint vision report, and on the results of the evaluation study. if a modernisation of the agreement is decided, the commission would be in favour of considering possible improvements to the financial services chapter and including a sustainable development chapter with clear legally binding commitments. turning to chile, the bilateral trade relationship is based on a highly successful agreement. since the entry into force of the trade part of the eu-chile association agreement on 1 february 2003, bilateral trade has grown by 128 %, reaching eur 18.1 billion in 2012. between 2004 and 2011, eu exports of services to chile increased by 128 %, while imports increased by 87 %. the eu also remains the leading source of foreign investment in chile, with 21.5 % of total foreign direct investment flows in 2012. based on this context, the commission believes that both parties have a strong interest to further develop trade relations. the trade pillar of the eu-chile association agreement includes a wide-ranging and novel set of provisions with respect to other trade agreements entered into separately by the parties at the time. for example, there is a high level of protection for names used in geographical indications, while provisions in the sanitary and phytosanitary field go beyond world trade organization rules. overall, it is a comprehensive agreement which has been implemented in a satisfactory manner to the mutual benefit of both parties. the independent ex-post evaluation of the trade pillar of the agreement, which was finalised in 2012, broadly validates this. however, the commission considers that the trade pillar of the agreement could be modernised in, for example, the areas of services, investment, rules of origin, trade facilitation, public procurement, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, trade defence instruments and sustainable development. in this context, the commission welcomes the chilean non-paper entitled ‘a proposal for the modernisation of the eu-chile association agreement’ submitted during the eu-chile association committee meeting in october 2013. it contains an important trade component, which is still under assessment by the commission and the external action service. it is positive that chile signals its readiness to discuss areas not covered by the evolution clauses on agriculture and services. for its part, the commission would also be in favour of including a sustainable development chapter with clear legally binding commitments and of considering improvements to the financial services chapter, especially in the light of updated eu legislation on banking. at this stage of the process, further in-depth work between chile and the eu is necessary. we are still in a very preliminary phase and look forward to continuing work with chile, as well as to consulting member states, the european parliament and stakeholders to better identify specific areas of interest for the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing i would like to say is that these agreements are not free trade agreements: they are association agreements. these are the first agreements concluded by the european union with the specific character of being fourth generation agreements with third countries. the first generation was based on agro-industrial cooperation, the second on scientific and technological cooperation, the third on the democratic clause and the fourth on the progressive and reciprocal liberalisation of trade. these two agreements, for which i had the privilege of being rapporteur in the european parliament, are a success story. the commissioner reminded us of the spectacular increases that the agreement with chile produced - more than 230% in the first five years of its validity - and the agreements and the spectacular increases in the exchange of goods and services, and also in investment, in the case of mexico, which represent or have represented an accumulated stock of more than 80 billion euros. but as mr moreira reminded us, the circumstances of more than a decade ago, when these agreements were negotiated and concluded, have changed substantially. the world is a completely different place and today the european union is negotiating agreements with the united states, canada, japan, new zealand, australia and our neighbouring countries. i therefore believe that it is not necessary to make any major studies or to hold many meetings, commissioner, to come to the conclusion that these agreements must be modernised, revised and updated. and this conclusion was clearly reached at the santiago summit in chile last january, and i say january. it has been a year, commissioner, and not much has been done. you have referred to the chilean offer, which was submitted several months ago, and we are waiting for an appropriate response from the european union. and in the case of mexico we are witnessing important constitutional reforms, mainly in the services, telecommunications and energy sectors, which are clearly aimed at promoting the interests of european union companies and citizens. so, commissioner, i do not know whether the commission can be given a big prize for anticipation, but i think we cannot waste any more time. i think that we must respond to this legitimate attempt by the chilean side to activate the evolutionary clause of the agreement and i also believe, commissioner, that we must push for the adoption of negotiating directives, as regards the renewal of the association agreement with mexico, before the end of the mandate of the present commission. everything that does not go in this direction, mr commissioner, is not really in the interests of the citizens and businesses of the european union. i think we can and must be much more diligent and i really think we should all reflect, because a precious time has passed since the conclusion of the chile summit and the agreements we took on, and absolutely nothing has happened yet.
madam president, commissioner, chile and mexico have for years demonstrated their reliability and solidity as trade partners of the european union in the framework of the association agreements that both countries have had with the union for more than ten years. during this period our relations with both countries have been strengthened, as is shown by the continuing increase in trade flows between chile and mexico and the european union, proving the importance of this continent, latin america, to the union. but we must be aware that in recent years international trade has evolved in various areas, such as financial services, and new areas of interest have emerged, such as small and mediumsized enterprises. the americas are also experiencing a process of regional integration, as evidenced by the pacific alliance. the european union has also started negotiations with the united states on an agreement known as ttip, an agreement which, in my view, is not a threat to these countries but, on the contrary, a great opportunity. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that the possibility of improving the association agreements with chile and mexico be studied, so that we can all take advantage of and benefit from the synergies that arise from this new environment of euro-american relations. we are also aware that the agreements themselves provide for instruments for adaptation, as professor moreira has said, such as the review clause in the agreement with mexico and the evolutionary clause in the case of chile. in the case of mexico, the commission is already carrying out a study to examine the suitability of applying the review clause. i think it is appropriate to start the same procedure with chile, commissioner, to see whether we can adapt our trade relations. commissioner, i think it is vitally important, in this context where foreign trade can become the engine of growth, to address these issues.
madam president, mexico is a special case in latin america, since it is the european union's privileged partner in the region. external relations, trade, investment and cooperation are an important engine of economic growth for our union and for mexico. this brotherhood on both sides of the atlantic exemplifies its coherence and common vision of the future with this agreement on economic partnership, political consultation and cooperation between the european union and mexico, signed more than 16 years ago. trade with mexico has been growing steadily since the entry into force of the agreement. we have also worked and made progress on a wide range of global issues, from security to the fight against climate change, tax havens, corruption and illicit trafficking, to cooperation in science and technology and the promotion of international cooperation and the safeguarding of human rights. we have achieved many things in these years, but we are also aware of the long way to go. this update of the global agreement is not only an opportunity to strengthen our political, economic and peer-to-peer cooperation ties, but also an opportunity for economic growth and job creation that we must not miss. it is therefore essential that the european commission sends a clear message that the updating of the global agreement is a priority for the union. i therefore ask that the three joint working groups which have been set up and which will meet in mexico from 11 to 13 february should result in the opening of a negotiating mandate. it is also essential that these working groups inform the joint parliamentary committee, the inta commission and the mexican congress and senate of the progress achieved and the road map for the negotiations. the work being done in the joint parliamentary committee to follow up this agreement is enormous and fruitful, i can assure you, and i therefore call for the parliamentary dimension to be further strengthened in the context of the updating of the agreement.
madam president, commissioner, we are debating today and i am sure we will adopt a resolution on the european strategy for the homeless, because we need to have this strategy as soon as possible. our european union, despite the problems it has been experiencing in recent years, remains one of the best places in the world for social protection. but despite this fact, "homelessness" continues to increase and has changed the profile of people who suffer from it. to quote caritas, he has gone from beggar and vagabond to passerby, from passerby to destitute, from destitute to homeless and from homeless to homeless. the crisis has accelerated this process and the support and measures promoted by local, regional and european authorities have to adapt to these new circumstances. there is no single cause that drives people to live on the streets or in shelters, but they all have one thing in common: they cannot reintegrate on their own, they need help. but the solution cannot be the same for a person who has been on the street for years, with a deep disruption, as for another who has just lost his job, his house, his life, but who retains the memory of normalized habits. the european union must coordinate and help member states take the first step towards eradicating 'homelessness'. and this is prevention: traditional resources must be adapted to the present reality and priority access to housing must be combined with other social policies and support aimed at achieving the highest degree of personal autonomy. in recent years, important progress has been made in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, but this is not enough and it is necessary that the member states should be able to make the european fund for aid to the most deprived available as soon as possible. this is a necessary tool to alleviate the situation of the homeless and, despite not having sufficient resources, it will be used, together with the european social fund, to help all the member states.
madam president, commissioner andor, the consensus that exists at all levels - and this is being seen in this house during the debate - on the need for a strategy for the homeless is really incomprehensible in the european commission's attitude to this and its reluctance to put it into practice. the number of people, of entire families who are on the streets is increasing and, therefore, we cannot look away. this is an opportunity to show that european solidarity is a reality and not a bunch of empty words; that what we really care about are people and their problems. the economic crisis and its disastrous management have had a devastating impact on many european societies; homelessness is one of the most cruel forms of social exclusion - and in spain we are living through this drama with the thousands of displaced families. we cannot afford to waste another minute, commissioner, and we must put this strategy into action.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission fully recognises that each and every individual has the fundamental right of access to high-quality healthcare. despite the work done and the results achieved over the years, problems of inequality and discrimination, sadly, persist in europe. we therefore need to continue and increase our efforts to eliminate all forms of inequality and discrimination, including discrimination based on gender and sexual orientation. we must also continue to actively promote equality between men and women. the commission organised an event on this theme last october with the aim of contributing towards a healthier and fairer europe, and it will convene a conference in march on the issue. health must be for all. everybody should have access to high-quality healthcare, regardless of gender, age, race, sexual orientation, disease, social status, education or country of residence. health – free of prejudice and discrimination, and with full respect to all beliefs and behaviours – calls for the involvement of the whole of society. it involves, for example, education, justice and social affairs – in short, all the different constituent areas that collectively make up our societal models. sexual and reproductive health is, of course, part of the health status of the population and equally needs to be considered within a perspective of equality and non-discrimination, both inside and outside the european union. we must strive to do better. for example, it is unacceptable that, even if it is comparatively low in the european union, maternal mortality is still a problem and is significantly high within some vulnerable groups. it is unacceptable that female genital mutilation still exists in the eu, as well as in the wider world. it is unacceptable that many forms of violence – which clearly have an impact on health – are still deemed, in certain quarters, to be ‘justified’ by custom, tradition, culture, privacy, religion or honour. let me finish by reiterating that the commission stands among the staunchest opponents of inequality and discrimination in all its forms. whilst respecting the national competences of the member states, the commission actively supports governments’ efforts to ensure that health systems have the capacity to deal effectively with health needs and that equality and fairness are championed at every opportunity.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. europe cannot stand by while mr rajoy's government seeks to end decades of women's struggle for the right to decide, for dignity, for freedom. today in spain it is not necessary to change the law if it is not because a part of the population wants to impose a morality on all the rest of the women. because the law that currently exists in spain does not force anyone to have an abortion, but the law that the popular party wants to impose forces all women to be mothers, even if they do not want to be. the draft law on the protection of unborn children speaks, but the government has forgotten the children who have been born, the children who today in spain live below the poverty line because they force women to have children with disabilities, while withdrawing aid to dependent families. it's a shame we're in this situation! and it's also a discriminatory law. because women with economic resources will be able to go to other countries in the european union, while women without economic resources will have to resort to clandestine abortions or become unwanted mothers. i refuse, we refuse, that our daughters in europe should have fewer rights than our mothers.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, commissioner, this is a matter of fundamental rights. the counter-reform of the law on sexual and reproductive rights and voluntary termination of pregnancy presented by the pp in spain is a contempt for women's rights and has a strong ultraconservative and reactionary charge that becomes an imposition of a macho court that is the toughest restriction on abortion in the democratic era. limiting abortion to only two cases would place spain's legal framework far from international treaties, european resolutions and who recommendations on sexual and reproductive rights, relegating women's rights to the tail of europe and to the level of countries that do not sign international treaties and violate human rights. the ideological basis of the counter-reform conceives of women as subjects without rights who must be protected and whose will is relegated by a supposed defense of the rights of the conceived. this misogynistic fundamentalism takes us back to a time when abortion was a privilege of the upper classes, thus creating a discrimination for economic reasons that will lead women to underground abortions, increasing the risk to women's lives and health. it is therefore an unnecessary, untimely, sexist, classist, backward, anachronistic, unreasonable and unsuitable for the times in which we live, and i therefore urge the european commission to do everything possible to prevent such a waste from taking place.
madam president, sexual and reproductive health is a matter of fundamental rights and is part of the european social model. we are talking about equality, freedom, the right to health and, ultimately, democracy. europe cannot go back to the days when the religious convictions of one part of society imposed laws on the rest. the spanish government now intends to eliminate basic rights of women, such as the freedom to choose when and how they want to be mothers, by a unilateral amendment to the abortion law. the measure considers women underage and will generate health risks for people with little economic means, who will be forced to return to clandestine operations that caused deaths and irreversible damage in the past. the proposal does not respond to any social debate, nor does it solve any problems: rather it reopens some that were overcome and responds to electoral interests of the popular party. spain is thus leaving the european area of freedom and democracy. we therefore reject this backsliding and call on the european institutions - as was attempted in the estrela report - to establish a common rule guaranteeing european citizenship, european women, the exercise of freedom and the right to health in an intimate, human environment, fundamental to individual development such as sexual and reproductive health. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? i rise, mrs bilbao, without any desire to argue, and i will even tell you what part of your speech i could subscribe to. i rise with a spirit of clarification. i would like to know your opinion on two specific points: do you think that a correct abortion legislation should strike a reasonable balance between the rights of the pregnant woman - which she certainly has - and those of the human being conceived and not yet born? and the second question is this: do you think that european governments should promote more actively public policies - educational, social, health - so that pregnant women in precarious situations who wish to carry on their motherhood can do so?
the answer is 'blue card'. mr vidal-quadras, thank you very much for your comments. we believe, and i said in my proposal, that women should first of all be free to decide when and how they want to conceive their children. and secondly, i have said that i believe that europe should legislate in a clear way to protect this freedom of women, because this freedom of women also means better protection for children. and, of course, for all people in precarious situations, whatever the circumstances, we have defended in this house - as we do in the rest of the institutions - appropriate measures so that, with freedom, each one can decide his future in the conditions he considers best. but i am defending women's freedom and i am not defending the measure and the position of the popular party or the spanish government with this law which has undoubtedly been a total setback with respect to legislation that was already passed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank the commission for bringing the matter back to this house. i think it was necessary and convenient. we are talking about a fundamental right: the right of women to choose their sexuality and their motherhood; a right which the union must defend and promote; a debate which comes as a thumbs-up, since the right of women to decide on their motherhood is being curtailed in the spanish state. the new abortion law is going to be a setback, both in terms of women's rights and on the road to full gender equality: there will be no real equality if women cannot decide on their motherhood. i call for a common european policy guaranteeing the right of women to decide, guaranteeing equal rights for all european women.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, i see that you are very worried about these types of message. are you of the same opinion about the flag you have behind you?
madam president, i do not understand the rules of the blue cards very well; i thought that the people who have spoken could not ask for them, but you will explain. i had earlier asked for a blue card to ask mr irazabalbeitia a question, if possible, about his intervention.
blue card question. what is it? mr irazabalbeitia, i would like you to answer a very short question: what is your idea of the right to life?
the answer is 'blue card'. mrs. jiménez-becerril, the right to life is a fundamental right of all people, no matter what they think about any kind of subject. it is a fundamental right that i respect, that i defend, and you only have to look at my political career to know what my position has been in response to your subliminal question 'what is my position on the violence of eta?'
madam president, the ultra-catholic fundamentalist patriarchate of the popular party government in spain is actually trying to set back the spanish democracy by pushing back women's rights, which is an unprecedented step backwards in history: it is taking us back thirty years. this ultra-catholic fundamentalist patriarchy is also expressed here in this house: it is always intolerant, always - mr legutko's intervention calling a report by mrs estrela 'disgusting', 'disgusting', expressions which are typical of the far right, of fascism - and, therefore, that draft law in spain - which is regressive, retrograde - also has expressions here and has allies. i therefore encourage members to sign the declaration which is circulating against this regression. since monday, that statement has been circulating: 179 signatures, as of yesterday. i believe that the reaction to this setback must be a united reaction by all the parliamentary groups defending the right to sexual and reproductive health in a free way. the women say - and this is a flag, ladies and gentlemen, this is a flag - 'we gave birth, we decided'.
madam president, i must admit that i am surprised at the accusatory tone of some of your speakers, who seem not to have understood or - what would be worse - not to have accepted what was made abundantly clear after the vote on 10 december last: that the formulation and implementation of policies on sexual and reproductive health is a matter for the member states, and it is in the national parliaments that it must be debated and to them that it must be directed. but what we are seeing here today is that you are trying to break the rules of the game that we have democratically given ourselves and bring a debate here because you are afraid of not being able to win it where you have to play the game: in your national parliament, where our party - the people's party - has won the confidence of the majority of citizens and is legitimated to carry out the legislative changes it considers necessary, in accordance with its programme. and, more importantly, in accordance with the values it defends, including the defence of life. because i cannot accept that we are accused of restricting women's rights because we want to reconcile the right to life with women's health and protection; they are not irreconcilable, as you are showing here. we have to work together to come to a compromise of those rights. i believe that the popular party in spain and in europe will always be against any discrimination and in favour of human rights, and will support all the commission's initiatives in this regard. you've been talking about women's rights. i am a woman, and of course i stand up for my rights, but they haven't had a single word to say about the rights of the unborn, and that makes me wonder what is wrong with them. you have an allergy to talking about the right of the unborn.
mrs podimata, if you were spanish, mr rajoy would say to you: 'you may preside over nothing less than the european parliament, but i am in charge of your body'. and i would not say that in parliament, because the popular group in spain has on eight occasions blocked the requests of the entire opposition to hold a free and open debate in parliament on this bill, which returns spanish women to the catacombs of citizenship. and no minister, no judge, no psychiatrist or any other self-appointed authority to decide on women's bodies has been able to stop women from having abortions when we consider it necessary - for social reasons, for personal reasons, for family reasons. it couldn't be stopped. what can be changed is the way women have abortions - safely or at risk to their health and life. of the 122 000 abortions that take place in spain each year, 100 000 would be illegal under this new law, which will not reduce the number of abortions in spain. what would reduce the number of abortions in spain would be something that the spanish government also denies us: a good sex education, because "education for citizenship" has also been banned in spanish schools. gentlemen of the spanish government, if you want to protect families, what you have to do is to end the shame of children living in spain below the poverty line.
madam president, the reform of the law on abortion in spain - by the rajoy government - is an attack on the fundamental rights and freedoms of women, 53% of the population. the decision to be a mother is a woman's, something that is forgotten by those who consider women to be unequal. no one - and i say no one - can usurp rights, or subjugate or bend an equal. dignity, respect and freedom, equal. and i make a request. those who speak out against the current law on time limits, which has proven to be effective, are the ones who do not respect women's rights; they had better keep quiet because they are discredited. no to the reactionary reform of gallardón; yes to freedom, the right to decide, fundamental rights, therefore, of obligatory compliance. less cynicism, less throbbing and the fundamental treaty. i would like to ask the commissioner to be vigilant in the face of any failure to comply with the common rules and to respect and enforce the right to decide, because i would remind you that no right is exclusive of another, all are fundamental rights.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, safety at sea and the protection of the environment are the two pillars of eu maritime safety legislation. after the erika and prestige accidents, the commission acted to abolish sub-standard shipping and make the prevention of environmental damage to marine waters a priority. liability for damage to the environment caused by shipping accidents has also been reinforced. eu member states are now required to impose penalties, including criminal sanctions, for ship-source pollution. it is also compulsory for any ship entering an eu port or flying a member state flag to have adequate insurance cover for maritime claims. the general environmental liability directive defines environmental damage as a ‘measurable adverse change’ or ‘impairment’ of biodiversity, land and water resources. that is independent of any traditional damage, such as damage to property, economic loss or personal injury. under the scope of the directive, the terms ‘environmental’ and ‘ecological’ damage are synonymous. there is no distinction made between environmental damage in general and ‘pure ecological damage’. allow me to elaborate on the international regime. the 1992 civil liability convention establishes the strict liability of the ship owner for any oil pollution damage, including damage to the environment. the liability limits were revised in 2003 and increased by 50 %, and special compensation funds were created to address pollution damage from oil spills. these funds compensate victims of oil pollution when the civil liability convention fails to cover their claims, in part or in full, and even when no liability for that damage arises under the convention. since 2008, compensation has included any measures for re-establishing a biological community in areas affected by an oil spill. the cost of post-spill studies is covered, and the funds can also facilitate the hiring of experts to advise on environmental recovery. the total amount available under this regime for compensating oil spill pollution damage is close to one billion euros. the international conventions prohibit any additional compensation claims being made using national or regional laws. once an accident falls under the scope of the civil liability convention and the funds conventions, compensation can only be claimed under the terms of these conventions. it cannot be combined with the environmental liability directive. the commission is now studying the effectiveness of the environmental liability directive and is focused on analysing data on accidents that have occurred over the last ten years in eu waters. it will report later in 2014. any further decision must be well-informed – either to work within the international regime and push for amendments within it, or to extend the scope of the environmental liability directive, abolishing the possibility of presenting claims under the international conventions.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the truth is that the erika judgment is historic and we would like to see all the proposals we are putting forward concerning a european fund and the extension of environmental responsibility to the seas adopted. because three years after the sinking of the erika, in 2002, the prestige broke apart off the galician coast. i still remember that the present spanish prime minister spoke of plasticine hills, but the reality is that the accident involved 63 000 tonnes of plasticine, which caused the disaster of 2 900 kilometres of coastline, with 1 137 polluted beaches, 450 000 square metres of rock surface impregnated with plasticine - more than 500 tonnes in the deep - in a region also dedicated to fishing and seafood, the death of more than 200 000 birds, plus the illnesses of the volunteers, and, in total, 14 000 people affected. finally, ten years later, the prestige judgment - a judgment of hundreds of thousands of pages, delivered, it is true, in a court overtaken by circumstances and without the shipowner or the operator having been located, who have disappeared, as those responsible in the maritime sector usually do - has told them that there is no criminal or civil liability, that is to say, no one pays. the 14 000 people affected will not be held responsible for anything, since there will be no one left to pay; in other words, yes, spanish citizens will have to pay for all the disasters. that is why, mr kallas, i hope that we will recover the proposal from the european fund which the council rejected in 2000 and that we will be able to extend civil liability to maritime aspects as well. it is time that the sea ceased to be a no-man's land, where no one is responsible, where no one is responsible for such profound ecological, economic and social damage and that the council therefore took up its responsibility.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the european parliament has once again missed the opportunity to call on all political and economic actors to relaunch a sustainable reindustrialisation of the continent to enable the much-needed creation of jobs. the report initially proposed was not a strong enough bet, but after the amendments by the european right groups, it has become much worse. the report presents a rosary of neoliberal policies which, for example, call for the reduction of labour costs as a way of achieving competitiveness, the implementation of privatisations, etc. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − against. despite the efforts of our rapporteur, we did not succeed in getting rid of some very bad pieces that forced some of us to vote against. one of these texts was article 137: ‘highlights current trends in global energy prices, which are linked to unconventional oil and gas resources in the usa as well as developments in the middle east, and notes that high energy prices are an important factor affecting the competitiveness of european industries; stresses the need to provide analyses of the factors influencing the price of energy; calls on the commission to take this into account as done in its impact assessments when making future proposals; emphasises that rise requires coherence between industrial, energy and climate policies; notes that lower energy prices in the usa have permitted additional industrial investments; refers to parliament’s resolutions on such investments; highlights the hugely important role of the energy-intensive industries, which produce essential basic materials; stresses that these industries are subject to the risk of carbon leakage and that special precautions are therefore needed to keep it competitive; asks the commission to come forward with recommendations to prevent the risk of carbon leakage’.
in writing. − for every new job created in the industrial sector, approximately two more are created in the service sector. moreover, when investments are made in strengthening and renewing an economy's industrial system, there are direct benefits in terms of competitiveness, growth, employment and efficiency. the report adopted by the european parliament today, which includes sustainable and efficient industrial policies, therefore lays out the most appropriate strategic line to follow in order to harness the potential of the technological revolution we are living in today. i am also particularly pleased with the emphasis on the need for support and assistance for smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to compensate for the higher costs of traditional rum producers in the french overseas departments of guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. the decision allowing for the existence of such derogations in the french public levies for these products ceased to be in force on 31 december 2013. this report proposes that the same conditions for the import of these traditional products be extended. this decision allows the development of the traditional rum industry in the regions concerned, with positive economic effects on the economy of these territories. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. until now, we have not been greatly convinced about the need to apply a reduced rate of excise duty as we have never seen an assessment of the impact a derogation like this has and whether the intended objectives (promotion of local markets) have been achieved or at least tackled. however, we have always supported such proposals (for the french outermost regions, for madeira, for the canary islands) and voted in favour because of the local factor. in the aforementioned council decision, there are, however, two new elements: the extension of the scope to the vss which seriously weakens the health-risk aspect of the scheme; and the obligation for france to present a mid-term report on the measures, which is a very useful tool and meets our desire to know more about the impact of such derogations. we welcome greatly the introduction of a mid-term report, including analysis of the implementation and impact of the measures, as we do see the need for further assessment of the schemeʼs effectiveness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider its content to be a satisfactory proposal for the benefits enjoyed by members of the european parliament to be attributed not to the person but to the office he holds. the report makes specific reference to parliamentary immunity, improving its functioning and ensuring that people cannot exercise the powers conferred by their position in parliament when they are not performing the duties of their political office. the proposal in this report does not require members to waive their immunity when they are called upon to testify in court as witnesses, thus speeding up the procedures relating to immunity. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it improves the functioning of parliament.
in writing. − in favour. the report amends rules 6 and 7 of the rules of procedure, in line with the juri opinion. the main changes are the following: (1) immunity provided for in article 8 of the protocol may not be waived when immunity provided for in article 9 is waived, unless there are overriding reasons for presuming that the legal proceeding requiring the waiver is motivated by a will to impede the functioning of parliament or to attack the member because of his or her membership of parliament; (2) introduction of the right to ask for a decision that has been taken not to defend the immunities to be reconsidered, submitting new evidence, under clear conditions to prevent the use of repeated requests for the defence of immunity as a delaying tactic and to clarify what is to be done in cases where requests for both waiver and defence are made in respect of the same facts. the proposed procedure is more clear and complete than the current one. therefore we are supporting the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it rejects the introduction of a new genetically modified maize variety, known as zea mays l., line 1507. this resolution bases the rejection of this new genetically modified organism on the arguments that society has been using for years to push for the rejection of this type of crops. it lists the harmful effects of gm crops on the environment and on the activities of different farmers, beekeepers, etc. in view of the serious risks which still need to be studied in depth and the benefits which are found to be practically nil, this report makes the appropriate decision not to allow this new gm maize. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. it opposes the adoption of a proposal to place on the market a genetically modified maize product (1507) for cultivation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it reaffirms the commitment 'that every european project must have' to the free movement of persons between the member states of the european union. this resolution seeks to boost institutional support in the face of statements by certain european political leaders who have called into question the free movement of persons. there are european political sensibilities which want to reduce the european union project to its economic and commercial dimension, ignoring the rights of the people who make up this political and social union. this report is a very important institutional support for the fundamental freedom of movement. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in favour. with the european elections approaching, the free movement of eu citizens has become a campaign issue for some political parties. there is a risk that this debate, if not addressed rationally, could lead to the scapegoating of eu citizens from some member states or of eu mobile citizens, and might lead to a rise in racism and xenophobia. high-ranking european politicians have recently made several statements undermining the right to free movement. this is why the resolution was so important.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it condemns the citizenship policies being implemented by some member states, which in practice result in the sale of european citizenship, undermining the very foundations of that citizenship. given that there are millions of third-country nationals who, despite having been resident in the european union for many years, are in a situation of serious risk, the attitude of member states which grant citizenship to third-country nationals who invest in their territory is absolutely unworthy. countries like spain and malta sell citizenship to the highest bidder, while expelling thousands of migrants without a care for their rights. because all of the above is a cynical attack on migrants, that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the maltese government, in particular, has recently taken steps to introduce a scheme for the outright sale of maltese citizenship, which automatically entails the outright sale of eu citizenship as a whole without any residency requirement. the outright sale of eu citizenship undermines the mutual trust upon which the union is built. eu citizens have the right to move and reside freely within the eu, and to vote and stand as candidates in municipal and european parliament elections wherever they live in the eu, under the same conditions as nationals, and to be assisted by another member state’s embassy or consulate outside the eu under the same conditions as a citizen of that member state, if their own is not represented.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution, which, although it contains many points which i share on the various progress made by serbia, includes the traditional neoliberal agenda which is intended to be imposed on all countries aspiring to join the european union. our group is not opposed to the accession of new countries to the european union, but we cannot support it when this accession involves blackmailing the serbian authorities into implementing neoliberal policies which will worsen the quality of life of serbian citizens. that is why i have decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the european council of 28 june 2013 decided to open accession negotiations with serbia and hold the first intergovernmental conference in january 2014 at the very latest, reconfirming serbia’s european perspective in line with the eu’s commitments to the whole western balkan region. serbia has taken important steps towards the normalisation of relations with kosovo, resulting in the first agreement on the principles of normalisation of 19 april 2013, and has endeavoured to fulfil the political criteria and conditions of the stabilisation and association process. the accession negotiations constitute a strong monitoring tool for implementation of reforms. on 25 september 2013, the commission and serbia launched the process of screening of the acquis, starting with chapter 23 – judiciary and fundamental rights. like every country aspiring to eu membership, serbia must be judged on its own merits in terms of fulfilling, implementing and complying with the same set of criteria.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made by serbia to overcome the scourge of the conflict which led to the break-up of the former yugoslavia and, more specifically, its relationship with kosovo, as well as the progress made in the acquis communautaire with regard to fundamental rights and the effective implementation of the rule of law. we take account of the progress made in relation to the formal commitment to integrate into the european union by carrying out both institutional and socioeconomic reforms to fit the parameters necessary to be able to carry out such integration. as a result of these developments, and in keeping with the spirit of this european parliament resolution, i am voting in favour, in the belief that this resolution will be a further milestone for belgrade and its authorities in meeting the criteria for serbia to be a full member, as are already other countries in its political environment, such as slovenia or croatia, or regional, such as bulgaria and romania. this resolution will also contribute by highlighting the areas where belgrade needs to put more emphasis and work to fulfil what the european union expects from serbia.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because the european union cannot try to annex the region of kosovo by including it in the accession policy when that region lacks a state recognised by all the member states of the european union. the kosovo region was declared independent from serbia unilaterally thanks to the support of the military intervention carried out by nato without the approval of the un security council. this is one of the most obvious imperialist interventions on the european continent, which the european union is trying to ratify with this accession. that is why i have decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - on behalf of the spanish delegation of the epp group, we wish to state that the meaning of our vote on the resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo is due to the fact that the resolution treats kosovo as if it were an ordinary independent state, recognised by the entire international community. the fact is that this is not the case, to the extent that five member states, including spain, have not recognised it.
in writing. - on behalf of the spanish delegation of the s&d group: none of the votes of the spanish socialist delegation can be interpreted as a recognition of kosovo in the absence of an agreement between the parties or a new security council resolution. we are firmly committed to the european perspective of the western balkans, which we consider to be key to stability, peace and the reform process in the region. we are defending a constructive position which is not only the most consistent with the international community's commitment to multiethnic states in the western balkans and with international law, but which, far from being an obstacle, has proved to be key to stimulating serbia's european commitment, stability in the region and progress in the belgrade-pristina dialogue, which must continue.
in writing. − in favour. the text encourages the remaining five member states to proceed with the recognition of kosovo; calls on all eu member states to do their utmost to facilitate economic, people-to-people contacts and social and political relations between their citizens and those of kosovo; points to the need to take active steps to provide for the full implementation of the instrument for pre-accession assistance (the ipa), and also to improve cooperation between the european rule of law mission in kosovo (eulex), europol and interpol, including – as long as full recognition is lacking – practical steps to include kosovo in the work of both these agencies; and calls on the commission to work on agreements which would allow kosovo to cooperate with the eu agencies.
in writing. − considering that five eu states, including spain, have not yet recognised kosovo as an independent state; considering that kosovo still has a number of problems with the implementation of human rights-related legislation and the enforcement of the rule of law in order to become fully and de jure a genuine state governed by the rule of law; and considering also that the role of women is still far from reaching the usual standards in the member states of the european union and that their participation in the fight against organised crime, the ruling mafias and existing corruption needs to be increased, i understand that we must vote in favour of this ep resolution in order to help in an efficient and practical way this war-torn territory so that it can benefit from the different eu programmes, thus allowing it to develop fully so that it is able to achieve not only a recognised state but a serious candidate for a future part of the eu that we hope will soon be formed.
in writing. - i wish the best for the citizens of kosovo, but i cannot support the unilateral declaration of independence agreed by their authorities.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it takes a very ambiguous position on the referendum which the icelandic government intends to hold on the process of accession to the european union. the negotiations with the european union have continued, although they are conditional on the outcome of the referendum on the political orientation of the country. the resolution presents the reactivation of the negotiations with the traditional elements of european neoliberal policy to which our group is strongly opposed. beyond this traditional position, the union does not even comment on the participation of icelandic citizens in the decision on accession. that is why i could not vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in favour. the newly-elected icelandic government has put on hold the accession process and an assessment of the accession negotiations and the developments within the european union in view of a debate in the althingi on these issues that is currently underway. it has declared that the accession negotiations will not be continued without a prior public national referendum. the ep underlines the transparent and inclusive conduct of the accession negotiations and welcomes the opening of 27 negotiation chapters and the provisional closure of 11, marking the good progress made in the accession process. it stresses that the european union remains fully committed to continuing and completing the accession negotiation process, and it notes that recent public opinion polls show that a majority of icelanders wish to finalise the accession negotiations and that iceland continues to be classified as an applicant country.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because i do not share its analysis of the tensions and violence in south sudan. the resolution makes a very unscientific analysis, which simplifies the reality of south sudan and the rest of the sahel, considering it an ethnic conflict. all conflicts are ethnic; when this term is used it is simply because someone wants to make their responsibility in it invisible. this is undoubtedly an imperialist conflict where the military powers of the united states and israel are consolidating their control over this territory in the heart of africa, in competition with the other powers that participate in the plundering of resources on the continent. because of these differences in analysis, i have decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. − in favour. the political conflict started after salva kiir, the country’s president and a member of the dinka ethnic group, accused his sacked vice-president, riek machar, an ethnic nuer, of plotting a coup d’état against him. riek machar has denied attempting a coup. the government of south sudan has arrested 11 senior politicians, including the former finance minister and the former secretary-general of the splm party, over an alleged coup plot against president kiir, whilst, on 23 july 2013, president kiir dissolved the whole cabinet and dismissed vice-president riek machar. the current conflict needs a democratic political solution which should pave the way for democratically-agreed institutions to build the new state which came into being after the independence referendum. civil society has demanded a peaceful political solution to the problem.
in writing. - we must take account of the tremendous human crisis caused by the escalation of violence in south sudan and the un security council resolutions on the area. we are talking about thousands of deaths caused by such violence, including a situation that is producing and has produced millions of refugees. the crisis response plan must be followed, the ocha appeal must be heeded and the means of meeting the identified needs for humanitarian relief (both food and shelter and protection) must be properly implemented. it is essential to explicitly support action in the area to foster regional cooperation, as well as to urge the government of south sudan to undertake the necessary changes and reforms to change and reorient the unsustainable scenario in which it finds itself. the ratification by the government of south sudan of the eu-acp cotonou agreement is therefore necessary to make the commitment to promote the development of south sudan possible in an effective manner.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution, although i consider it essential to develop a strategy on the subject, because it does not include principles which i consider essential to ensure the protection of the european citizens who are suffering most from the consequences of the crisis. for our organisation, the right to housing is a fundamental right which must be guaranteed by every rule of law; if it is not guaranteed, citizens are deprived of their ability to exercise other fundamental rights and freedoms. the massive evictions that are taking place as a result of the financial crisis are one of the main causes of the increase in the number of homeless people, and this resolution should have included an explicit mention that obliges the financial institutions rescued with european money not to evict more people. that is why i have decided to abstain from voting on this resolution.
in writing. − in favour, although i am deeply disappointed by the fact that several crucial amendments proposed by the greens were rejected, for instance: ‘expresses its concerns about the mortgage situation in spain, ireland and now greece, in particular about the waves of evictions which will generate large numbers of homeless persons; considers that the updated spanish mortgage law is not consistent with the ruling by the european court of justice of 14 march 2013; calls on the commission to urge spain to guarantee the proper transposition of directive 93/13/eec; calls for a reform of the banking sector in such a way that it meets the needs of society by banning home foreclosures for unpaid mortgages; recommends to the member states that they adopt a tenure neutral housing policy to prevent housing bubbles;’
in writing. − considering that homelessness is the most extreme form of poverty and deprivation and that housing is a basic human need, i fully support this european parliament resolution calling on the commission to develop a community strategy for the homeless and urging member states to strengthen national policies in this regard and to share best practice. the fight against poverty is a priority in the europe 2020 strategy, as it is not a life choice and all human beings are born with equal rights and dignity. we therefore ask the european union to complement and support the member states in such a vital social policy.
in writing. - amendment no 2: i vote in favour because i agree with the need to comply with the court of justice judgment and i share the need to reform the banking sector. as regards evictions, i support the content of the recent european mortgage directive which requires 'reasonable tolerance' before enforcement and facilitates the payment of damages agreed between the parties. as regards amendment no 6, i am voting in favour because i agree with the substance of the amendment but not with the form, especially as regards the wording of the final paragraph.
author. − mr president, all human beings are born free and equal, in dignity and rights; all states have the obligation to prevent violence and incitement to hatred based on individual characteristics including sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. this is why it is so important that as many as 76 countries still consider consensual activities between adults of the same sex a crime and five maintain the death penalty for such activities. consensual acts between people of the same sex are punished by 14 years’ imprisonment in uganda and by seven years in prison or the death penalty in 12 states under sharia law in nigeria. this is why, in that resolution, we heavily condemn the adoption of ever more repressive laws against lgbti persons and reiterate that sexual orientation and gender identity are matters that fall within the remit of the individual’s right to privacy, as guaranteed by international law and national constitutions. we call on those 76 countries to stop criminalising consensual acts between adults of the same sex, and we particularly call on the president of uganda to refrain from signing the anti-homosexuality bill into law and on the president of nigeria to refrain from signing the same-sex marriage prohibition bill into law. but we also call on the commission and the council to include an explicit mention of non-discrimination based on sexual orientation in the next revision of the cotonou agreement, as this parliament has frequently demanded.
madam president, the truth is that this directive puts the safety and health of workers in black and white. a high level of protection for people at risk of exposure to toxic or chemical products is not an administrative burden, it is a right, it is a guarantee. and it doesn't matter the size of the company. the list of professionals to be quantified, what types of professionals there are, must be determined. social dialogue is needed as a means of implementing such directives. it is true that this type of regulation almost always affects workers with serious problems and serious difficulties: people working in the textile sector, also in other countries, and people working in leather, also in other countries, and it is a reference point that we have to look at.
madam president, this weekend the popular party celebrated 'rajoy's spain', but it was not mentioned at any time that its policies of cuts have increased social inequalities and that spain is one of the countries of the european union which has suffered the greatest deterioration of its social and economic fabric; that with the cuts in the freedoms of spaniards our fundamental rights have been reduced to unthinkable limits; that with the relaxation of dismissals and its labour reform more than half a million families have all their members unemployed and almost two hundred thousand jobs have been destroyed. the cantabria of the popular party is the perfect photograph of this spain of 26% unemployment. the alarming increase of over 3% in the unemployment rate places cantabria as the second spanish region with the highest increase. cantabria urgently needs a plan for development and conversion, because with the conservative government of cantabria and the spain of rajoy, rather than in the right direction, we are going downhill and without brakes.
madam president, commissioner, after seven years of fighting for justice and information, the case of the valencia metro accident, one of the worst in history, has been reopened: forty-three people dead, forty-seven people injured and zero responsible. there have been reports of previous derailments, machines that were obsolete and corroded, malpractice... the responsibility of the politicians of fgv, which are metrovalencia and the valencian government, prevented the proper development of a commission of inquiry within the valencian parliament at that time. we consider that article 41 (2) of the charter of fundamental rights has been infringed and that article 11 (2) on respect for media freedom and pluralism has also been breached, since all the media have been forced to keep silent on this matter. i ask this parliament to ensure that there is more justice, that parliamentary committees of inquiry respect the democratic principles of the union, transparency, attention to victims, and that we work to ensure that this does not happen again. thousands of people are now in a square calling for the european union to listen to their words.
madam president, the citizens of the union will face a historic crossroads next spring when they have to place their trust in the members who will represent them in this house. the citizens are asking the european leaders and we members to decide once and for all whether we want the future to be written by all of us together - citizens and states - or whether, on the contrary, we want to continue to adhere to a vision that looks exclusively at partial interests, national interests, leaving the european common good for another time. this common good is not the sum of the common good of each member state, nor the sum of the interests of those who prefer to put their diversity ahead of what constitutes the essence of the european union, whose motto is 'united in diversity'. for my part, i reject as immoral and politically harmful the selfish vision of the radicals, extremists and nationalists who want to break the unity of the states, which is tantamount to breaking the unity of the european union. it is time for europe, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for european citizenship.
madam president, i will support the launching of this roadmap to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of europeans who are seriously threatened today. nearly half of the european lgbt population has been the victim of some form of aggression in the last year, of which 50% were violent attacks. only one in ten victims took their case to the police. freedom of sexual choice is a fundamental right and one more expression of diversity that deserves respect and protection. european institutions should lead this cause at a time when the most conservative forces long for the time when the lgbt world officially did not exist, even if it was punished with imprisonment and marginalization. so, in passing, the flag of decency and order distances the political agenda from corruption, crisis or poverty. so we must defend every bit of freedom that is threatened, lest, by the time we realize it, they have taken the piece they are after, which is the freedom of all of us and all of us.
madam president, commissioner, i am glad that this report has reached the house. i think we are looking at a very positive report, a report which i hope will help in the fight against homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. i hope that the report will make states think so that they develop effective and positive policies to fight against discrimination against lgbt people and in favour of their rights. i hope it will also make some states, such as croatia and portugal, which are taking the rights of people with a different sexual orientation to a referendum, reflect on the lack of legitimacy and democracy of that way. rights are not put to a vote, they are rights. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs ulrike lunacek for having succeeded in bringing this excellent report to fruition.
madam president, on many occasions in this chamber i have called on the commission to act by proposing legislative measures and instruments to strengthen consumer protection, and yet, despite this directive, some of these practices persist, undermining the confidence of european consumers in the internal market. it is essential that member states transpose, apply and enforce the directive correctly in order to remove legal and functional uncertainties and that, in the event of non-compliance or misapplication, member states who fail to comply with the rules are brought to justice. it is also a priority for them to step up their efforts to protect the most vulnerable consumers, among others, from covert and especially misleading advertising on the internet, and to counteract its terrible effects with general information campaigns aimed at warning consumers of deception. citizens are calling for strong european rules to ensure that a high level of consumer protection is maintained.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european digital single market is certainly one of the priorities we have set ourselves during this parliamentary term in order to complete the european single market. we could say that this legislature has been the one of europe's digital awakening. during these four and a half years we have succeeded in making the digital environment, for the first time in europe, an opportunity: an opportunity to complete the single market, an opportunity to get out of the crisis, adapting our trade, our economy, our companies and even our consumers to the new digital age, to regain competitiveness, which has undoubtedly been weighed down too much in recent years in europe compared to our main competitors, an opportunity to reactivate the labour market and, in this sense, an opportunity to bring young people - our young people - into the european labour market. in this legislature we have developed various initiatives which have made a great step towards the consolidation of a true digital single market in europe. the commission's internal market and consumer protection committee has made it a priority to make the digital single market a reality. in this regard, resolutions such as the one on the completion of the internal market for electronic commerce, adopted in september 2010, or on the completion of the digital single market, adopted in december 2012, set out the roadmap for its effective achievement. this roadmap was endorsed by this house in its resolution on completing the digital single market in july last year. during this time, we have held monthly meetings in the single market task force of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection since its creation in january 2011, and its conclusions have fed into the content of the abovementioned resolutions. but all that has been done so far would be incomplete if we did not complete the circle with the important report which we shall put to the vote tomorrow. the distribution and delivery of goods purchased online is the high point of the e-commerce chain. having an integrated single market for delivery services for the growth of e-commerce is not only fundamental, but is one of the pillars on which both consumers' and businesses' confidence in the digital single market must be built. it is vital to have pan-european delivery services that enable consumers and businesses, especially smes trading on the internet, to get goods sold or purchased to their destination quickly, safely and at affordable prices. in the report we call for a number of fundamental measures and reforms which need to be undertaken in the sector to improve the existing situation. i would like to thank the good cooperation i have had with the alternative rapporteurs and their excellent willingness and desire to reach compromise agreements on the various subjects, which has resulted in the unanimous approval of this report in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i would just like to add, in conclusion, that i believe that the path we have travelled in this legislature should not end here. there are many areas where further progress will be essential and many challenges still to be addressed. the next commission and the next parliament must take stock of all that has been done in this legislature and bring it to the goal of completing the digital single market. it's a dream we all want to see fulfilled. let me conclude, as i have done so many times in this house, and i will not tire of repeating it, by saying that the way out of the crisis is also digital.
the next item is the debate on the report by marielle gallo, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the collective management of copyright and related rights and the multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use in the internal market (com (2012) 0372 c7-0183/2012 2012/0180 (cod)) (a7-0281/2013).
mr president, whatever it is to stand up for the defence of culture as the backbone of europe, this member of parliament will be moving in the right direction. in the case of music, this beneficial effect is more noticeable because we are well aware of its character as a language that assembles emotions and binds feelings together. from the point of view of legislative policy, which is what we are concerned with in this house, the fundamental values that legislation must protect are: firstly, the consolidation of a single market with pan-european licences; secondly, transparent information and lower costs for citizens; and thirdly, the guarantee of adequate remuneration for creators, performers and, in general, artists involved in this market. in this house we hear a lot about economics and macroeconomic figures. the fog of the economy and the macroeconomic picture must not make us forget the cultural dimension of europe, on whose rich tradition the best of our initiatives must be based, because since europe emerged as a conscious civilization, culture is precisely its basic foundation. thank you very much and congratulations to the rapporteurs.
the new directive improves the existing one by extending the single market, especially in the digital sector, and by more thoroughly controlling the rules on transparency and the duties and rights of both companies and rightholders. however, the spanish government intends to circumvent this rule in the congress of deputies by adopting, before the european rule comes into force, a spanish law that violates its most basic principles. what does the european commission intend to do in the face of this deliberate violation of eu law? what will be the economic and social consequences of such a violation? in addition to the brutal treatment of authors with private copying, the government of my country, so hostile to progress with the new abortion law, is also hostile to spanish and european authors. we have to fix it.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank the members for the quality of this debate and for the unanimity which has been achieved as a result of the work you have carried out on the basis of the proposal i made to you and also on the basis of the work of the lithuanian presidency. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that i proposed this text on behalf of the european commission in july 2012, which means that you have done a lot of good work in a relatively short time - a year and a half - on a very sensitive subject. let me say a few words, mr president, in reply to some of the members, although i cannot mention all of them, but i would like to make a few points. i shall first answer mr vlasák on the costs of transposition for management companies. this is naturally a subject which we have examined during the discussions and in the impact study. we believe that these costs should not be too high. mr vlasák spoke about the dispute settlement procedures. these apply only to multi-territorial licences and therefore not to all companies. as far as complaint procedures are concerned, they are obviously part of the life and constraints of a well-organised and well-managed management company. mrs verheyen mentioned the compatibility or possible overlap of this directive with the services directive. i mean that the directive you are about to adopt is neutral - i insist - in relation to the services directive. the scope of the latter directive will therefore not change. mr masip hidalgo, all the member states are obviously obliged to implement this directive in a consistent and correct way. the commission shall provide for procedures to ensure that this implementation is properly carried out. we'll be watching it carefully. mrs ţicău was referring earlier to the work that has to be done by the member states: as we do with all texts, we will be in dialogue with the member states and with the collective management societies themselves to ensure that the implementation of the directive is monitored effectively and quickly. i would also like to say something about a sensitive subject for me: mrs castex, mrs thun und hohenstein and mrs kammerevert mentioned the fact that this consultation, which was scheduled for a very short period of two months, was proposed in only one language - english. i can understand that very well. i did it to myself for all the reasons you can imagine. we were prisoners, constrained by the timetable of a consultation we wanted to hold to show the willingness of the commission on a subject that must be listened to. therefore, we have indeed launched this consultation in one language. i would like to mention two points, not to excuse but simply to explain, beyond the question of the timetable. we, together with mrs kroes and mrs vassiliou, have decided to extend the deadline by one month because we understood that the fact that this consultation was open only in one language created constraints and created difficulties for all those who wished to reply or consult in another language. the second thing i want to say to those members who have legitimately spoken on this issue is that the replies are welcome and will be received in all the official languages. of course, the questions are in english, but we have given an extra month to understand and answer them, and, again, the answers can be given in all the official languages of the european union. i thank you for your understanding of this matter and i agree that ideally we should have done this consultation in several languages. i would also like to express my thanks on behalf of the european commission to those of you who have spoken in this debate and even before, to underline the quality of this text, which is the result of a long and intensive work by your rapporteur, the fictitious rapporteurs and the competent committees, on the basis of the text i had proposed to you. this text has been consolidated and improved in the council and especially here. this is a good encouragement, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we have not exhausted the copyright issue, which i myself have said must be respected. authors must be paid fairly and promptly, but copyright must also - i repeat - live with its time, our time today, which is the time of the internet and the single market. in conclusion, i would like to thank marielle gallo personally and publicly for the work she has done with great skill, as you all have indicated. mrs gallo can be proud of her work and the method she has put in place - ms castex underlined this - which has been to work with everyone and listen to everyone, to finally reach a unanimous dynamic compromise on an extremely sensitive subject. it's a good example of this cooperative, inclusive, open, transparent approach that we need to use on this issue of copyright in particular and intellectual property in general. the commission will continue to apply this method, and i thank mrs marielle gallo very much for setting such a good example in this text.
mr barnier, the vice-president who is chairing this sitting is responsible for all things multilingual and i would point out to him that in that capacity i have been in contact with three or four senior officials in the field from different countries who have expressed to me their concern and protest at the fact that we are working in one language. it does not matter whether there is a one-month or six-month extension because what we are doing is putting some countries and some artists in a discriminatory situation compared to others. i would point out that this is an extremely worrying development in the commission's way of working, and i have no choice but to pass it on to you because i know that you are particularly sensitive to this matter and it is appropriate that this should be noted in today's agenda.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on criminal sanctions applicable to insider dealing and market manipulation (com (2011) 0654 final c7-0358/2011 2011/0297 (cod)) (a7-0344/2012).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your appreciation of this text and for your questions, which i would like to try to answer with viviane reding. i would first like to reply to olle ludvigsson, andreas mölzer and olle schmidt, who have mentioned the functioning of the markets. there is no market that can function without clear rules and sanctions for those who do not comply with them. effective surveillance is the very basis of our action. that is why this directive was an essential piece in the regulatory architecture that we have been rebuilding or building for the last four years, as i said earlier. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. that was the problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. mr binev, we will be very careful to ensure that this text is actually applied everywhere, including in bulgaria. the commission will be very vigilant on this matter. this echoes what mrs jazłowiecka said about the uk's participation. as you know, the british government has three months to exercise its right of opt-in and therefore to apply this text. we wish and hope that he does, of course. mr klinz and mr besset spoke of the significance of the text and expressed the hope that it could be taken further. we have committed ourselves, on behalf of the commission, to evaluate very objectively and very carefully, mr klinz, the application of this directive and the effectiveness of the sanctions. if necessary, we will put forward a revised proposal based on the outcome of this evaluation, as has been said, of this zero tolerance for manipulators, now and in the future. finally, arlene mccarthy was right to stress the crucial importance of this text for protecting consumers in practice. olle schmidt spoke of the protection of small and mediumsized enterprises and mr stolojan and mr klinz spoke of trust. we are clearly at the heart of the trust issues, of that trust which has been so shaken and betrayed by a number of practices of people who thought they could do anything because they were allowed to do anything. it's over now. that's enough! we are now in a different age. the citizens must be protected against abuse and manipulation of the markets. the financial stakes are considerable. mr paška referred to this major financial issue. we saw that in the libor scandal. it is imperative that we put an end to this with real rules, real supervision and serious penal sanctions. as arlene mccarthy also said, we must be attentive to the practical and rapid implementation of this text. this also requires competent, well-trained judges, given the considerable inventiveness we see in the markets, including when it comes to circumventing or circumventing certain rules. this is a subject we will look very closely at in the review clause. to conclude, once again special thanks to you, arlene mccarthy, for your outstanding work on this file and many others: crd iii and crd iv, bonuses, market manipulation, the extractive industries, transparency you have pressed for, and accomplished, great changes for europe and for its citizens and i want to thank you very much.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the political agreement before parliament today is an ambitious one and it fulfils our shared goals – those of reinforcing the fight against market abuse – and therefore i wait with great expectation for the vote in favour of this directive. i thank parliament for having strengthened the commission’s proposal by setting sanctions of four years at least for imprisonment in serious cases of insider trading and market manipulation, and of two years for serious cases of dissemination of false information. this is a strong sign. this is a sign that market manipulation will no longer be accepted: zero tolerance for market abuse is the very least our citizens expect of us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m. and resumed at 11.30 a.m.)
the rapporteur. - mr. president, i won't go into too much detail. i would simply like, since we have not had the opportunity or the opportunity to have a small debate on something that may interest you, to thank everyone for the work on this report, and especially the members of the court of auditors, whom i personally represent in their newly re-elected president, mr caldeira, who has over the years developed a whole series of significant reforms to make the court of auditors a more refined, efficient and effective instrument, better responsive to the demands of its main clients, which are the commission and parliament, but above all to the objective of providing citizens with elements of confidence that at least someone is monitoring the implementation of the european budget. i think we have tried in this report to go further, to bring about, in a certain way, creative elements to solve or attempt to solve the devastating problem of the negative sdr exercise by improving the results of the court of auditors' audits by putting it in a framework closer to the requirements of the real debate on european policy. and i also believe that we have improved - as mr lehne's appointment today proves - the criteria for the appointment of candidates. i therefore ask you, if you can, to support amendment no 1, which is a resolution that improves even on what we had done in committee. sorry to interrupt.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to facilitate the inclusion of all the world's territories in the kimberley process certification system. this report is due to the fact that greenland is an autonomous territory, but does not have the status of a country, which prevents its accession to the kimberley process. this process is intended to control the origin of diamonds, to ensure that they are not diamonds from conflict zones and that the proceeds of trade in these raw materials cannot be used to finance conflicts in the territories where they are mined. the report proposes to regulate the trade regime for diamonds between greenland and the eu so that greenland can participate in the kimberley process. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - greens welcome the kimberley process as such, and we also welcome each country willing to join and effectively implement the rules. we also support the creative solution the commission has found linking greenland to the eu certification system through the association of greenland as an oct. the kimberley process certification scheme is a voluntary government-led initiative to stop the trade in rough diamonds that fuel conflict. it is guaranteed by government control of the implementation of the scheme, which has been operational since 2003. the kp has 54 members, representing 81 countries. participants in the kimberley process undertake to only import/export diamonds from other kimberley process participants. this is proven by an accompanying kimberley process certificate that is issued by a kp participant. the eu is a participant in the scheme. any rough diamond shipment imported/exported to any eu member state is sent to one of the six union authorities for verification, and only afterwards is sent back to its destination and introduced to free eu circulation. greenland is not part of the union territory, but it is included in the list of overseas countries and territories (oct) for its rich mining potential. since receiving autonomy over its mining sector in 2011, it wants to diversify its economy in this direction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to facilitate the inclusion of all the world's territories in the kimberley process certification system. this report is due to the fact that greenland is an autonomous territory, but does not have the status of a country, which prevents its accession to the kimberley process. this process is intended to control the origin of diamonds, to ensure that they are not diamonds from conflict zones and that the proceeds of trade in these raw materials cannot be used to finance conflicts in the territories where they are mined. this report proposes the participation of greenland in the aforementioned process once the trade regime for diamonds between greenland and the eu has been clarified. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to delay the implementation of the single euro payments area (sepa). the various payment systems in the european union were to migrate to this single payment area by 1 february, the date from which european banks could not make transfers or debit accounts in systems that did not meet the sepa conditions. most banks have not adapted to the system and without the extension of this deadline there would be problems in the financial system. the commission, in a last-minute proposal, has put forward this six-month delay in the implementation of sepa. in order to avoid the disruption that the move to sepa may cause, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. for reasons of urgency it is justified to proceed to the vote before the expiry of the deadline of eight weeks laid down in article 6 of protocol no 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a boost to the international implementation of the 1977 torremolinos international convention for the safety of fishing vessels. the convention was never applied globally because not enough countries ratified it, but the torremolinos protocol of 1993 has been applied in the european union since 1997. the 2012 cape town agreement on the implementation of the protocol seeks to remove restrictions that have prevented the participation of countries with large fishing fleets in the protocol. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it seeks to extend the scope of these safety standards so that they improve the working conditions of fishermen in all regions of the world.
in writing. - in favour. the cape town agreement of 2012 on the implementation of the provisions of the torremolinos protocol of 1993 relating to the international convention for the safety of fishing vessels, 1977 was adopted in october 2012 during a diplomatic conference convened by the international maritime organization (imo). this agreement should enable the implementation of the torremolinos international convention for the safety of fishing vessels signed in 1977 and its protocol of 1993, which never entered into force as a result of an insufficient number of states ratifying the convention and its protocol. the torremolinos convention and its protocol of 1993 lay down safety standards, such as life-saving appliances, radio communication, fire protection, machinery and electrical installations, as well as specific requirements for seagoing fishing vessels of 24 metres in length and over.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains good descriptive information on the trends in the application of european union law in the member states, it does not sufficiently condemn the failures and inaction of both the member states and the european commission. the report shows a trend towards fewer infringement proceedings being brought against member states, but non-compliance has continued to increase. the implementation of eu law is essential in certain areas to oblige states to implement key legislation, and although this report notes the failures, it is not enough. i have therefore been unable to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. the lisbon treaty introduced a number of new legal bases intended to facilitate the implementation, application and enforcement of eu law. article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union defines the right of good administration as the right for every person to have his or her affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions. according to article 298 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), in carrying out their missions, the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union shall have the support of an open, efficient and independent european administration. according to the legal service of the european parliament, the eu pilot, an online platform used by the member states and the commission to clarify the factual and legal background to problems arising in relation to the application of eu law does not have any legal status and according to the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission, the latter has to make available to parliament summary information concerning all infringement procedures from the letter of formal notice, including on a case-by-case basis, and may only refuse access to personal data in the eu pilot.
in writing. - abstention. immunity to be raised in a case of civil proceeding, which was brought with no justification after the criminal one based on the same facts.
in writing. - in favour. immunity should be waived as the case does not fall within the scope of ziobro’s political activities as an mep and instead concerns activities of a purely national nature.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it improves the living conditions of many european citizens who have migrated from one member state to another within the european union. the report deals with the simplification of the acceptance of certain official documents by the institutions of all the member states. until now, official translation and authentication of all official documents was required. this imposes huge costs on many citizens who must even return to their home countries just to be able to prove the veracity of an official public document in their home state. this report obliges the member states to accept certain official documents with lower accreditation requirements; that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - we cannot expect the free movement of persons and goods to be complete without establishing simple but wide-ranging bureaucratic mechanisms to facilitate the establishment of individuals and businesses in other member states. the european parliament has therefore adopted this proposal for a regulation, which lays down guidelines for validating the authenticity of public documents from another member state, which does not imply acceptance of their content. documents such as civil status or intellectual property rights, or certificates of disability or educational records will therefore be more easily recognised under this simplified system. in addition, the introduction of multilingual forms at eu level complements the previous rules perfectly. linguistic pluralism is a reality in the european union, and we must therefore include it in the legal framework.
in writing. - this regulation is a further step towards harmonising existing eu legislation with the globally harmonized system (ghs), a united nations system for the identification of hazardous chemicals which informs users of the associated risks by means of symbols and standard phrases appearing on packaging, labels and safety data sheets. the adoption of this regulation has led to the need for technical adaptation of the five directives (92/58/eec, 92/85/eec, 94/33/eec, 98/24/ec and 2004/37/ec) containing references to chemical classification and eu labelling legislation. it is also very positive that all the political groups have agreed to the compromise reached.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because i think it will help to manage dangerous chemical compounds more safely.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to amend the legislation in force at european union level to provide better protection for workers against the risks of the use of certain substances in workplaces. the report aims to amend the relevant directives to adapt the legislation to the globally harmonized system of classification and labelling of chemicals. this legislative implementation of the agreement does not imply any reduction in the scope of the current directives but rather an improvement in the implementation of the treaties and therefore in the safety conditions of european workers; that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on classification, labelling and packaging (clp) of substances and mixtures aligns the existing eu legislation to the ghs, which is a united nations system for identifying hazardous chemicals and informing users about the related hazards by means of standard symbols and phrases on packaging labels, and safety data sheets. following the adoption of this clp regulation, a need emerged to make technical changes to the five directives (92/58/eec, 92/85/eec, 94/33/ec, 98/24/ec and 2004/37/ec) containing references to eu chemical classification and labelling legislation. the alignment of the references and terminology of the five directives to correspond to that of clp regulation does not call for any changes to the scope or level of protection provided by these directives.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the citizens of the union are protected. this new standard should stimulate the development of online music services at european level. it also ensures better protection of artists' rights and speeds up the collection of their profits. this directive will enable users to access copyrighted content throughout europe. it's a clear sign that copyright can be easily adapted to the internet. copyright plays an essential role in the digital economy.
in writing. - the directive addresses the issue of collective rights management and how to facilitate the licensing of copyright and related rights in europe. parliament succeeded in improving the draft from the commission – which was already not bad in itself. among the improvements obtained which were important to us are: better transparency and control of management; annual individual statement on conflicts of interest by persons exercising the supervisory function and managers of cmos; better and more transparent management of the money, including of investment of rights revenue and the incomes arising from it; the possibility for authors to licence their work for non-commercial use; better distribution of amounts due.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a good organization of the rights and duties of collective management organisations for copyright at crossborder level within the european union. the report arises as a need to improve regulation in the area of online use of multi-territorial licences in the eu context. the rights of collective management organisations are more concisely defined, giving a greater role to their users and seeking to prevent excesses by such organisations. the report also stresses the need to take account of the union's cultural diversity in the development of cultural policies. it is because all these measures can give a boost to the music industry in the eu that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. article 167 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union requires the union to take cultural diversity into account in its action and to contribute to the flowering of the cultures of the member states, while respecting their national and regional diversity and at the same time bringing the common cultural heritage to the fore. collective management organisations play an important role in the promotion and preservation of cultural diversity, enabling rightholders to be remunerated for uses which they would not be in a position to control or enforce themselves, including in non-domestic markets. moreover, they play an important social and cultural role as promoters of the diversity of cultural expressions, by enabling the smallest and less popular repertoires to access the market.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it seeks to regulate the sanctions applicable to market manipulation operations, it constitutes the consolidation of a fanatical gamble to protect market mechanisms even though it has been shown that they are behind the cause of the economic crisis we are facing. i am against any kind of fraud, whatever the means by which it is perpetrated, but i think this report falls short and is also committed to ensuring the integrity of the eu's financial markets and to increasing investor protection. i believe that this type of fraud should be penalized, not to preserve the integrity of the sector and investors, but to prevent fraud by them. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. the market abuse directive (‘mad’) is concerned with criminal sanctions for ‘market abuse’ as defined in the regulation and the market abuse regulation (‘mar’) defines market abuse, provisions for detecting and preventing it and for setting administrative sanctions. the gravity of market abuse crimes merits the application, where appropriate, of criminal penalties for insider trading, market manipulation and improper disclosure of information. the introduction of a directive aimed at harmonising criminal sanctions regimes for market abuse across the eu is essential to ensure the effective implementation of eu financial services legislation. it also enlarged the scope in relation to the previous regime, to cover things like commodity derivatives and new trading venues added in the mifid directive and regulation, recently negotiated in trilogues. the regulation adds a significant innovation to the current market abuse framework by providing a detailed list of infringements that must be sanctioned, a detailed list of measures and sanctions that must at least be available to the competent authorities and criteria for the application of sanctions. the proposal for a regulation makes it clear that these sanctions must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
in writing. - i voted against because the proposal does not meet the minimum controls necessary to ensure that investment projects in energy infrastructure meet sustainability criteria and fully respect the union's environmental and energy directives.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains some positive points on the diversification of sources, it includes infrastructure for the exploitation of resources which are aggressive to the environment, such as biofuels. the proposal is interesting in that it proposes a system for exchanging information between the commission and the member states on investment projects for energy generation. this should improve the control of the energy systems of each state. however, i believe that this sector should be nationalised in order to avoid the problems arising from private interests in a commodity which is a general need and causes problems on a planetary scale. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - against. in the context of the new eu energy policy, aimed at securing supply, mitigating climate change and ensuring competitiveness, significant investment in energy infrastructure is crucial. obtaining an overall picture of the development of investment in energy infrastructure in the european union, through the member-states’ notification of their relevant investment projects, is one feature of such a policy. it should enable the commission to make necessary comparisons and evaluations in order to monitor closely the situation, anticipate any potential problems and propose measures. the proposed regulation is intended to replace the existing council regulation (eu, euratom), which was annulled by a judgment of the european court of justice following an amendment tabled originally by the greens (yannick jadot), who had contested the legal basis for the regulation.
in writing. - in favour. it is not only that the european court of auditors, as an external auditor to the union’s institutions, may provide the legislators with a statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in any given budgetary year, but also that the court is in a pre-eminent position to provide the legislator and the budgetary authority, especially parliament's budgetary control committee, with valuable opinions on results achieved by the union’s policies, in order to improve the performance and effectiveness of union-financed activities, identify economies of scale and scope, as well as spillover effects among the national policies of member states, and provide parliament with external assessments of the commission’s evaluation of public finances in the member states. the court should remain committed to independence, integrity, impartiality and professionalism, while building strong working relationships with its partners, particularly the european parliament and, more specifically, its committee on budgetary control, as well as the specialised committees, in the accountability process of the eu institutions.
in writing. - the role of the supreme audit institution of the european union must be established in a manner that is consistent with its role and its fundamental role in giving validity to the actual implementation of the union budget approved by the european parliament. beyond its relationship with other union institutions, such as the council, it has a direct commitment to european citizens as guarantor of public spending before them. the manner in which the new members of the court are appointed is therefore of fundamental importance. they must be the guarantors of the guiding principles of independence, integrity, impartiality and professionalism which they are expected to uphold and to which they must be subject as members of the court.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is another call to the member states to commit themselves to developing a clear definition of the principles of european law of subsidiarity and proportionality. this report reiterates the complaints made in previous years about the need to define these legal principles. the member states today often resort to a subjective interpretation of these principles in order to avoid competence and responsibility in certain policy areas. an appropriate negotiating process allowing for a single interpretation of these principles is not desirable, it is necessary in the interests of legal certainty at union level. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - against. a very imbalanced report. the amendments that both we and the s&d presented were defeated in plenary.
in writing. - the eu coordinates the fight against all discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation through the 'framework strategy on non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all'. it has been found that one in two lgbt people in the union have experienced discrimination or harassment on the grounds of sexual orientation. in addition, the eu agency for fundamental rights has recommended that the eu and the member states develop action plans to promote respect for lgbt people and the protection of their fundamental rights. for these reasons, it is very positive that our parliament approves the eu roadmap against homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, which sets out provisions for non-discrimination in all sectors (employment, health, education, etc.).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a fundamental obligation for the member states of the european union to guarantee the rights and freedoms of all persons, irrespective of their sex, gender or sexual orientation, and to combat attitudes which promote discrimination in this area. the far right in many european countries is encouraging political rhetoric against such people, as well as encouraging violent action against them. this report seeks to reinforce the commitment that the institutions of the european union must have in the prosecution of such discriminatory attitudes. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it represents a commitment against discrimination on grounds of sex, gender or sexual orientation.
in writing. - in favour!!!!!! coherent eu action against homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation is overdue and must finally be delivered. despite eu legislation to protect against discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, there is still discrimination, bullying and violence – in schools, workplaces and in everyday life situations. the cynical orchestrated lobbying campaign by conservative hardliners against this report has merely served to underline this. thankfully, a majority of meps has today supported the call for an eu roadmap against homophobia and discrimination based on sexual identity. the european commission must now finally outline a coherent approach at eu level, including concrete measures, as it has already done for the roma minority and for people with disabilities.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it includes aspects aimed at improving consumer power in the european union market, it contradicts previous reports on the same subject. in particular, there is the juvin resolution on the same subject, adopted and published in 2011, to which the european commission has not given any response. beyond this, it includes positive aspects for consumer protection, but the fact of expressly excluding business-to-business relationships means leaving out of the scope of the directive the problems that occur in the agri-food chain, in which the abuse of large distribution groups is structural. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. the unfair commercial practices directive 2005/29/ec aims to complete the internal market by removing barriers caused by differences between national laws on unfair commercial practices and ensuring a high level of consumer protection. it seeks to ensure that consumers are not misled or exposed to aggressive marketing and that any claim made by traders is clear, accurate and substantiated. this directive covers business-to-consumer (b2c) transactions, whether online or offline, involving goods and/or services. the purpose of this report was to respond to the commission communication assessing the application of this directive in the member states.
in writing. - the european parliament in plenary approved this report which calls on the commission to review the national implementation of the unfair commercial practices directive, the purpose of which is to ensure that consumers choose their shopping carts in full knowledge and without any abuse. there are disparities in implementation and transposition between member states, which jeopardises the effectiveness of the measure and compromises the entire single market by making transnational trade relations somewhat difficult. it is therefore necessary to remove this legal and operational uncertainty by ensuring the correct implementation of the directive, applying sanctioning measures where appropriate. these guarantees are not only for the benefit of consumers, who are the least protected since the rise of new technologies as a means of accessing trade, but also for the benefit of businesses, since all will be able to play by the same rules and smaller ones will be able to survive more easily in the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a commitment to the european union to begin to assess rigorously the differences between the legislative systems of the member states. the report calls on member states to thoroughly review the justice scoreboard for the last financial year 2013, with a view to putting in place measures to promote mutual understanding and cooperation between the different judicial systems of the member states. the report is intended to make progress towards a european union which makes it easier for citizens to use the justice systems in a country other than their own. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. this own-initiative report is a response to the commission’s 2013 eu justice scoreboard. it should be noted that this report focuses solely on civil, commercial and administrative law, where the judicial system has a particular importance for economic recovery. improving the quality, independence and effectiveness of judicial systems is a major goal of public policy at eu level and at national level. national justice systems play a key role in restoring confidence and delivering a return to growth. in the annual growth survey 2013 (ags), the commission underlined the importance of improving the quality, independence and effectiveness of national judicial systems, and of ensuring that claims can be settled within a reasonable time while promoting the use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. this should reduce costs for businesses and increase the member states’ attractiveness to foreign investors. the ags showed the need for a thorough evaluation and systematic review of the functioning of judicial systems in all member states, fully respecting the different national legal traditions.
mr president, one of the most serious problems affecting 60 million europeans is energy poverty, which leads to social exclusion. in my country, it affects four million spaniards, mainly elderly people and women living alone. this is the real situation in europe, which i am denouncing here today, so that the commission and the member states can offer urgent solutions, that is, specific measures. i voted in favour of the report on the development of smart grids because it is a step forward towards an efficient and more transparent model of energy production and consumption, with smart grids and meters that allow us to know the exact bill, that is, the actual consumption. strengthening clean and sustainable energy - and more, to combat energy poverty - is a priority for this mep. light is not a luxury, it is a universal basic service and should be considered as such.
in writing. - the report is very positive in that it captures the paradigm shift in the way energy is produced and consumed in the eu regions. it also highlights the possibility of making geographical (or territorial) changes to the energy grid and of promoting smart grids in disadvantaged regions such as islands, calling on member states and regions to invest in smart local grids through the use of the european structural and investment funds. as the rapporteur rightly says, the deployment of smart grids requires a stable, long-term policy framework so that their full potential can be exploited.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although i agree with much of what has been said about the search for a new model of energy production and distribution, it allows for the financing of private enterprises through the european union's structural funds. the report contains many bets on the use of smart grids in the energy systems supplying the member states of the union. these networks can allow for a reduction in needs by using systems in which energy consumers are, in part, their own producers. this reduces transport, which is one of the most energy-wasting phases in current systems. however, allowing private companies access to the structural funds may lead to multinational companies in the sector being able to monopolise these funds, which should be used for the needs of citizens. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. in times of increasing energy prices, climate change and socio-economic challenges, all regions in the eu will have to find ways of providing a stable and secure energy supply, which is affordable for all citizens, while respecting environmental and sustainability criteria. looking at different smart energy systems and smart grid initiatives we can see that there are already many solutions on the ground. some regions have transformed themselves from energy buyers to energy suppliers with a strong emphasis on renewable energies, thus providing a model of sustainable energy production that allows stabilising energy prices and making a profit at the same time. such examples include the region of burgenland in austria. güssing within burgenland was a previously poor and peripheral region which has transformed itself into a model of sustainability, generating all of its energy needs from renewable energy sources. islands, such as madeira in portugal, el hierro in spain, samsø in denmark, ikaria in greece, are also turning around a high percentage of energy needs, previously coming from fossil fuels, to now producing these same needs from renewable energy sources combined with smart infrastructure and storage choices.
in writing. - in order to maximise benefits and market opportunities, as well as greater sustainability and innovation, meps have endorsed a report calling for the convergence of regional energy production models towards greater decentralisation and a cross-sectoral approach through local smart grids; the barriers to access to these grids need to be significantly reduced. consumers have a right to the most efficient and personalised care possible, much more feasible if delivered at local level, so the introduction of smart energy meters and consumer education in this area are important, and european funds should be used for projects with these objectives.
in writing. - this own-initiative report calls for concrete action in the new cap and guidelines for the period after 2020 to help boost the prospects of small farms. small family farms are seen as an important element of the european agricultural model and are key to the multifunctional development of rural areas. these small farms are vital in areas with natural handicaps, such as mountainous areas or island territories. one of the most interesting points in the report is that it points out the importance of tackling the problem of rural exodus and depopulation in order to ensure the viability of small farms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it raises a number of points which seek to address the current needs of small farms within the framework of the cap. this is a positive report which our group has tried to improve by increasing support for small farms. although the result has not been the best possible, the report continues to put forward a proposal for the commission to improve access for small farms to the benefits of the common agricultural policy. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because i consider small farms to be a key element in food sovereignty and respect for the environment.
in writing. - in favour. a largely consensual initiative file, this report essentially recognises the across-the-board failure of the cap reform to make significant progress on the problems faced by small farmers across the eu. but, as the expression says, it is shutting the stable door when the horse has already bolted... too little, too late. it does however, point out many of the pertinent issues and calls for action post 2020, so it looks to the next reform for real change, just as we do. the problem is of course that the eu is losing thousands of small farms every year, and with them the rural communities, economies and biodiversity they kept in place – by 2020 how many will there be left, replaced by depopulated villages, overgrown meadows, intensive production on the best land, and soya-fed factory farms nearest the ports?
in writing. - i voted against this report because it allows the regulation of the electronic commerce sector on the basis of the flexibility of labour relations and the reduction of wage costs. the rapporteur takes advantage of the need to implement measures supporting a balanced and better regulated growth of the e-commerce sector to introduce measures of a neoliberal nature. whereas in other countries the sector has been characterized by the implementation of quality work and by reliance on trusting labour relations to improve productivity, this report aims to do the opposite by focusing on the precariousness of workers and the reduction of their rights. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - in favour. the parcel delivery market has grown rapidly as a result of increasing uptake of ecommerce. it is estimated that parcel delivery represents 20-40% of the total volume of delivery. cross-border delivery is considered an obstacle by 57% of retailers whilst 46.7% of consumers state that they are concerned about delivery in cross-border transactions. given the ecommerce is seen as the future of the internal market, end-to-end delivery infrastructure is fundamental and key to building consumer trust the commission considers the following three areas to be instrumental in creating an integrated eu parcel delivery market: (1) convenience, including innovative solutions for final-mile delivery, e.g. lockers, drop-off points in local shops, and tracking, also taking into account the universal service obligation; (2) cost, as consumers believe costs are too high yet operators say their margins are already tight; (3) interoperability and transparency along the delivery chain. this report is in response to a commission green paper launching a consultation on this matter.
in writing. - if the single market aims at removing barriers between trading partners, the emergence of the internet does nothing but facilitate this integration. the opportunities offered by the technological revolution in terms of exchange are amazing, allowing all businesses, in particular smes, to reduce transaction costs and facilitate the mobility of goods. however, its full potential is not exploited as consumers, losing direct contact with the seller, fear non-compliance and deception, and confidence in the method is not optimal. the report adopted today by the members of the european parliament therefore calls for the creation of a secure, transparent and reliable framework for online sales, with guarantees and trustworthy seals, flexible collection points and parcel tracking systems, which will enable both buyers and sellers to benefit from a favourable legal environment.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report has been used to attack the union's energy and climate change policy, arguing that the crisis in the sector is due to electricity prices. the report ignores other causes such as structural overcapacity, funding problems or the lack of a future strategy for the sector.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it does not provide an adequate response to the crisis in the sector and is a statement which will have no effect on solving the problems of the sector. this is a sector which has traditionally been the basis of european industry and employment. this report contains some important points, such as the emission control regime to reduce its environmental impact, but it is not a plan that really aims to recover the sector, but rather its condemnation. without an ambitious action plan for the sector, it is destined for its own collapse. if we want to maintain a steel industrial fabric in europe, this is not the boost that the steel industry urgently needs. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - against. greens’ main demands were: recognising that the economic crisis is not the only reason for demand drop but also the structural overcapacity in some steel demanding sector (automotive); in addition the financial, industrial and commercial strategies of some major actors (mittal) lead to concentration and financialisation; recognising that stop-and-go policies pursued with the sole purpose of maintaining prices has been detrimental to plant equipment, competence and know-how; recognising that renewable energy, transport and energy infrastructure represent real opportunities for steel and therefore the need for supporting development of new strategies and market measures to ensure that member states will not be played one against the other when a large steelmaker running plants in several countries announces restructuring; making use of the market analysis instrument to anticipate the risks and impacts of closure on the recovery of the sector; deploying funding according to state aid rules to reduce social impact and examining options to collectively shorten the working time needed for greening technical vocational education in the steel sector.
in writing. - europe is committed to renewing and restructuring its industrial sector with a variety of policies on competitiveness, 'energy, production and resource efficiency' and innovation to recover the potential at the base of the production chain. today in the european parliament we voted in favour of this report, which sets out the future direction of the new generation of the european steel industry, the raw material for other crucial sectors such as the automotive industry, renewable energy and electrical engineering. the high prices of the huge amount of energy required to produce steel and the declining demand for it make it urgent to take action if we are to compete in the global market and maintain domestic production which employs 350,000 direct workers and as many indirect workers. moreover, as europe is the second largest steel producer in the world, behind china, and at a regulatory and cost disadvantage to its main competitors, the european steel industry needs to be protected by legislative instruments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would first of all like to wish him a speedy recovery - he will be with us soon - and i would like to express on his behalf my gratitude to the alternative rapporteurs, to the commission and to the greek presidency, and in general to all those with whom he has worked on his report up to now. the banking union is a historic project of the european union of enormous scale, an unprecedented milestone in the european financial sphere. we need it to sustain the single currency and to take advantage of the benefits of a common market, to respond to the crisis and to better integrate our increasingly interdependent economy in a globalising world; in the short term it is indispensable to break the vicious circle between bank debt and public debt, to have a single regulation to make financial reform more effective, to ensure faster debt reduction and credit recovery and to protect taxpayers. the single resolution mechanism is one of the three pillars of the banking union, alongside the single supervisory mechanism and the deposit guarantee scheme. the establishment of a single resolution mechanism is considered a priority as it should be carried out in parallel with the establishment of the single supervisor that we have agreed. the european parliament, as a co-legislator, is committed to achieving the banking union and fully assumes its responsibilities. in 2010, a large majority in parliament approved an own-initiative report by the current rapporteur, elisa ferreira, calling on the commission to submit legislative proposals for the establishment of a single rulebook, a single supervisor with intrusive powers and a common fund to facilitate the orderly resolution of financial institutions, funded by credit institutions according to their risk profile, which would allow the costs to be passed on to shareholders and creditors, protecting taxpayers and even depositors from the consequences of this process. since then, the european parliament has contributed to the building of the banking union, has established a single supervisory mechanism which will soon be fully operational, is looking forward to a future initiative on deposit guarantee and has fully committed itself to the union having a single resolution mechanism including a single fund before the end of its present mandate. there are important reasons for doing so. the first is that there is a window of opportunity: a political momentum that cannot be squandered. there is a large majority in the house that supports it and wants to avoid risks to a future that, by definition, is always uncertain. the single supervisory system we have established is incompatible if, after the european central bank has declared an institution to be unviable, it enters into a confusing and unclear system of national resolution structures. furthermore, a key principle of the financial reform is the assumption of losses primarily by shareholders and creditors: bail-in. this principle is agreed in the bank recovery and resolution directive, but its establishment is inconceivable without a single supervisory mechanism. the basic idea is that banks support banks. that is why we need an efficient and rapid european authority. if a bank can't be resolved in a weekend to avoid a withdrawal of funds, the system is too complicated. the slower and more inefficient, the more expensive it is in the end. we need a single resolution fund funded by industry and a single resolution mechanism, not a multiple resolution mechanism. instead, we want a transition to a single resolution fund, but not a sharing of funds. will the member states continue to respond at least for another ten years? we believe that the single fund should be operational from the outset, otherwise there will be more costs for the member states. and, furthermore, we want to ensure that similar banks with similar problems are treated in a similar way. if the banking resolution does not work, financial stability could well be jeopardised, with a loss of confidence in the european union, and of course the credibility of the european central bank. nobody said this was going to be an easy project. the european parliament assumes its responsibility as a co-legislator and expresses its willingness to negotiate in good faith with the council on the objectives set. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. but the european parliament will not support a bad solution. there are no technical reasons for not reaching a compromise if there is genuine political will to do so. that is why parliament is prepared to reach it and we say that this is a dance. and for a tango it always takes two to dance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful for the opportunity to discuss in the house our trade relations and their impact on our internal market. from an agri-food point of view, the european union is undoubtedly one of the most important players in international trade, as an exporter but above all as an importer. since the signing of the warsaw declaration on food trade in october 2011, all european institutions have a duty to ensure that european citizens, as consumers, enjoy the highest standards of quality in food and food products produced in the european union, and also in those imported. we have enough tools for this, which should be used and, if necessary, improved, but never ignored or eliminated. the european commission is the gatekeeper of our common home, which must assure all europeans that what enters our borders will never cause us a food or plant health problem. it is therefore necessary to respect scrupulously the trade agreements signed by both the european union and the member states: to respect them and to enforce their respect. in the recent reform of the common agricultural policy we have introduced an important clause: reciprocity with third countries. only by taking account of sustained and sustainable developments, in compliance with the agreements signed and the obligations required, will it be possible to meet our food needs with justice, equity and peace of mind for european consumers.
member of the commission. - mr president, minister, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank you for this comprehensive discussion. i think that it contributed very well to the work on the agreement on the financial transaction tax (ftt) and i thank those who, in their speeches today, supported the proposal. your support is very important. i would like to remind the entire house that this house voted for the report by mrs podimata with an overwhelming majority; if i remember correctly with 552 votes in favour of the financial transaction tax. that shows the strong support of this house for the introduction of the financial transaction tax. i heard some repeated arguments today against the financial transaction tax, and those arguments were expressed many times during the discussion. mr bokros – who is no longer present – said that some people consider that this is the panacea to solve all the problems. no, we do not consider that this is a panacea to solve all the problems. we consider that this complements the reform of the financial sector and that it could serve as a market-based instrument to ensure a fair contribution by the financial sector to the public purse. that is what we were aiming at when we proposed the financial transaction tax. some of you said: well we may agree on the ftt, but only if it is global. of course, the commission also agrees that the best approach would be global, but we have to be realistic at this point in time that there is no global agreement on this. there is a clear request from eleven member states to go ahead with the introduction of a financial transaction tax on the basis of the commission’s proposal, thus allowing us to demonstrate to the world that with the introduction of this tax in the participating member states it can work and then others could follow. mrs lulling referred to the opinion of the council’s legal service. mrs lulling, i have to say to you that the commission presented its arguments to the council and that they were very well received by the member states. indeed, the participating member states decided to go ahead and heed the arguments from the commission and not the arguments of the council’s legal service. some of you, including mr langen, referred to the issue of the impact on the real economy. the impact assessment clearly demonstrated that the growth effect of this proposal could be positive to the economy and i personally believe that if we introduce the financial transaction tax it could actually stimulate the financial sector to pay more attention to the financing of the real economy and not to lock itself into gambling activities within the securities market. i do not wish to go on with the arguments we have already discussed here at length on many occasions. what i would like to say is that the commission would be open to contribute to a compromise on this file even if, in a gradual approach, the first step in implementation would be less ambitious in scope than our initial proposal. i must however warn you that limitation should not be at the expense of robustness. such an approach should not create obvious possibilities for tax avoidance and economic distortions. discussions in the council will now continue under the greek presidency, which has expressed its determination to strive for solutions. i welcome this steady approach. the commission will support it. i also firmly believe that a political agreement is possible and should be reached before the european elections. in this context, we need to continue to involve non-participating member states. indeed, the purpose of enhanced cooperation is to get everybody on board. honourable members, again i wish to thank you for your broad support in moving forward with this initiative. as i said in my introduction, the time of declarations, promises and joint communiqués is over. now it is time for the member states to act – quickly and decisively. it is time for agreement on the financial transaction tax, as this is what the citizens have clearly called for.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, i will begin with an institutional response: the greek presidency of the council is obliged to implement the council decision authorising the opening of the enhanced cooperation procedure. the council will defend the validity of its decision before the court of justice of the european union in order to dismiss the action brought. i now speak on behalf of the 11 member states participating in enhanced cooperation and i declare that the presidency of this six-month period will make every effort to bring the subject back into the spotlight and make it our political priority, so that there is a concrete and tangible result. in this respect i should like to thank mrs podimatou, who, as the historical rapporteur on the subject in parliament, has reminded us of the reasoning behind the overwhelming majority of this house's acceptance of the financial transaction tax. and i want to congratulate and thank the commissioner, mr šemeta, for his strong support and technical and scientific support for the financial transaction tax. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the european union now, a few months before the european elections, fails to give a practical answer in the real economy, where social cohesion is being tested, where the credibility of european integration is being tested, by telling citizens how it will finance measures to strengthen the real economy, enterprises, employment and social cohesion, we will have lost the game of the new european narrative. you will say to me: is it reasonable to say that we will draw resources from the financial sphere to strengthen the real economy, to strengthen social cohesion? yes, at first that makes sense. everything that produces surplus value must participate in a redistribution mechanism. the arguments that are heard - because we have heard a classic debate here, which is repeated too often - have a strong ideological charge. first of all, most arguments against the financial transaction tax are arguments that can be used against any kind of tax, against the very idea of government taxation. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. the financial sphere is indeed a cosmopolitan sphere, a globalised sphere, which has been detached from the element of territoriality and therefore of sovereignty and therefore of the power of the legal order, whether national or european community legal order. are we gonna accept this ? will we accept that the global financial market is a market beyond any kind of institutional control? that's the big deal. if we accept that, then we have no prospect of establishing the european union as a real political entity. actually, the question is: is there going to be a debate about global economic governance, or are we going to forget about it? in 2008, right after lehman brothers collapsed, the g20 meeting in london was held, and there was a list of decisions and initiatives from the 20 most advanced economies in the world, in order to lay the groundwork for some kind of global economic governance. i can assure you that almost nothing in that list has been implemented. can we start somewhere? the old continent, europe, has the capacity to take some initiative? not because it's the center of the world economy. unfortunately, we are no longer the center of the world economy. we age and we shrink as an economy and as a society, but we have sensibilities, we have ideas, we have a tradition, we have values. can there be a starting point for discussion of the institutions of global economic governance? it is a matter of the eleven members of the enhanced cooperation and the european union. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. but no european citizen, no citizen anywhere in the world, is only a pensioner, a consumer, a taxpayer. it has many properties. one may lose something as a pensioner or as a consumer but one gains it because one has other kinds of benefits and other kinds of opportunities. the subjects acting in a society are always complex; some lose, some win. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by anne delvaux and konrad szymański, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy, on a framework for climate and energy policies in 2030 (2013/2135 (ini)) (a7-0047/2014).
mr president, commissioner, commissioner, welcome to this house once again. listening to the debate, at certain points i feel a certain perplexity, because, although the title of the report we are discussing says 'a framework for climate and energy policies in 2030', there are those who talk about climate change and those who talk about energy, but there is rarely an interrelation between the two areas, which is what this report is about: to see how from both dimensions - from the perspective of climate change and from the perspective of energy - we can work together in a common way. because if we only talk about climate change and don't consider energy policy, we have a problem, and if we do the opposite, we have another problem. i therefore believe that we should start by considering the best measures to make progress in the fight against climate change and the least harmful measures to ensure that european industry remains competitive and is not affected by the possible closure of its businesses, which would put millions of workers out of work. and that is the reality. in that sense, i think that, given where we are starting from, the stated target of a 40 percent reduction by 2030 seems very reasonable. but i would also like to raise another point: it is important to do this with a policy of flexibility, with instruments of flexibility. i therefore believe that progress towards this objective, with the alternative possibility of using more energy efficiency or more renewable energy sources, depending on the specific circumstances of each member state, is essential and, moreover, in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, commissioner, commissioner, we find the commission's lack of ambition in relation to climate and energy objectives incomprehensible because of the implications for the competitiveness and sustainability of the european economy. this report gives us the opportunity to set ambitious targets, to condemn the unacceptable vision of the commission, and at the same time to denounce certain clearly regressive national policies. we therefore condemn the retroactive measures taken by certain member states to support renewables, which are hindering their necessary expansion and undermining investor confidence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. technologies such as ccs can also contribute to its sustainability. the report also advocates micro-generation and self-consumption, and it highlights governments which, like my own country, impose a toll on them. something similar happens with energy poverty. in conclusion, mr president, on a positive note, i think it is important that a binding crossborder interconnection target for energy infrastructure is required for the first time. this is a demand that responds to the logic of an interconnected internal market, without energy islands, and that allows maximum penetration of renewables.
mr president, the objective of this report is to combat climate change and sustainable energy. the commission has reduced its targets: the target for reducing emissions is very lax, it mentions energy efficiency but does not set very specific targets, and for renewable energies it sets a significant reduction. the socialists asked for 45%, parliament has proposed 30% and the commission proposes 27%. we are at 21%, little aspiration until 2030. the report itself indicates that renewables create independence, lower prices and an increase in the trade balance; however, there has been a fall in investment in renewables. i agree with the two commissioners that energy must also be europeanised, but not all countries pay the same. in spain there has been a 46% increase in prices and energy poverty is being generated.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank parliament for its support for the commission’s proposal, which aligns the rules of the fisheries control regulation with the lisbon treaty. i would also like to thank in particular the rapporteur, ms thomas, for her efforts on this important file. we have a new law governing the common fisheries policy, as ms thomas mentioned. this new law entered into force at the beginning of this year. last week we reached political agreement on the new funding rules, and i look forward to parliament and the council formally endorsing this compromise as soon as possible. i am referring to this framework and to the agreement on funding because i would like to underline that this framework is absolutely necessary for effective enforcement and control. our new rules will only deliver benefits to stocks, fishermen and coastal communities if they are properly enforced. this is crucial until the end of my mandate, but it is also crucial for my successor. i agree with ms thomas that we have to do our utmost to ensure enforcement of the control regulation and also to be sure that this enforcement is done consistently and that application is the same throughout european waters. i would like to underline that the proposal discussed today is limited to making sure that the commission’s powers to adopt implementing and delegated acts in the area of control are in line with the new rules of the treaty. this is what we are discussing now. we are discussing whether the implementing acts and the delegating acts given to the commission are aligned with the treaty. parliament, of course, has a say in this; we are here to hear your opinion, and we will respect it. therefore, now is the time to discuss revised procedures linked to the lisbon treaty rather than amendments of substance. this is the proper way to proceed. i understand there are some requests from members to revisit the whole control regulation, but i would like to remind you that the control regulation which is now in place entered into force only in 2010 and was implemented only in 2011. so we are talking about a regulation with a history of only two years. i can assure you that the functioning of our rules will be properly assessed in due time. we need more time to assess implementation. specifically, the commission will send to the european parliament and the council a report on the application of the fisheries control regulation every five years. there is already a reference to this in the regulation, so you can expect the first report during the first half of 2015. this is our obligation, and it is what the commission will do. the omnibus regulation which you have already mentioned is an issue which will be discussed here. we will start preparing this regulation as soon as parliament votes for the new fisheries policy. we cannot come to you any earlier. we will come to parliament very soon in order for this omnibus regulation to be discussed. regarding the control regulation, once we have the results of this report and the evaluation, the commission will assess with an open mind whether it is appropriate to revise the fisheries control regulation. it is up to them to decide. i have to finish here, because this is a task which my successor will have to tackle with the new parliament early next year. to cut a long story short, my task is to try to implement this regulation. this is what i will do until the end of my mandate and, of course, i will prepare everything for a possible revision of the regulation early next year.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, my group supports this report and thanks the rapporteur for her willingness to accept some suggestions which have allowed us to remain strictly in the field of comitology, but also to draw the commission's attention to the urgency of tackling without further delay a complete revision of the control regulation, not only to bring it into line with the new common fisheries policy, but also so that the sector does not have to move in a fog of changes in which any misinterpretation can have very serious consequences in the form of sanctions. it should be remembered that we already have on the table - as the two speakers before me have indicated - the omnibus proposal to adapt the provisions of the new common fisheries policy to the prohibition of discards, which contains more than thirty amendments to the previous version of this control regulation. it is therefore desirable that in the future you, or the next commissioner, should propose a thorough revision of this regulation. the second reflection i have on this report is the need to be very cautious about the use of delegated acts. i am no less suspicious than i am of the idea of stealing parliament's rights, but i would like to leave the reflection here that, in certain cases, we should be cautious and consider how far this parliament can really extend its monitoring mission, especially in the case of committees with few members and few resources. committing ourselves to an institutional obligation which we cannot then carry out with the necessary guarantees would risk becoming the other side of the coin.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, as i have little time, i should like to focus on the main points. as rapporteur for the control regulation in the previous legislature, i was able to see how difficult it is to establish a legal framework for something as important as compliance. and this is precisely what we have to reinforce, this is precisely what we have to guarantee. and i fear that if some of the amendments that have been tabled are successful, what we are going to do is weaken the framework, weaken the control regulation. i would therefore like to be very clear by recalling at this point not only the mandate for the reform of the common fisheries policy, but directly the fact that, as parliament, we have achieved the increase in the budget for both monitoring and data collection. parliament must send a clear message that this is exactly what we need, because if we do not, we will be sending the exact opposite message to what we are voting on at the moment in relation to other aspects.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr president, and to stress that the control regulation has been a very important step towards the effectiveness of the common fisheries policy. it is dated 20 november 2009 and a few days later the treaty of lisbon entered into force. it is therefore necessary to adapt parliament's estimates to the new categories of delegated and implementing acts established by the treaty of lisbon. i thank the commissioner for putting forward her proposal to do this process before the end of the present term of office. i think that this report, in relation to the delegated acts, envisages an interesting initiative: the submission of a report every three years assessing how they have been exercised; it provides that the procedure for implementing acts will be the examination procedure; it also provides that the introduction of new technologies will be done in consultation with the interested parties; and it clearly states that the evaluation of implementation should be carried out taking into account the new common fisheries policy and, in addition, a number of issues which i think are very useful.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank mr george sabin cutaș for initiating this debate on the external dimension of competition policy. the existence of abuses of dominant positions, cartels, unlawful dumping and uncontrolled concentrations affect trade and sustainable development. it is therefore important that the european commission promotes international cooperation, both to achieve convergence of competition policies and rules and to increase cooperation in the implementation of these rules and policies. this must be done both multilaterally and bilaterally, and of course both in the framework of general agreements and agreements specifically devoted to competition. in this connection, the memoranda with china and india are very positive, as is the fact that a minimum framework can be established for cooperation agreements, even in the case of first generation agreements. and with regard to the second generation of agreements on the exchange of evidence, i think it is very important that leniency programmes are protected, that they have legal guarantees, that confidentiality is protected and, at the same time, that we can continue to move towards greater effectiveness.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i would like to congratulate the european parliament on the approval of the council's decision to authorize the member states to ratify the treaty. the commission also approves the text of the accompanying resolution. of course, it is committed to continuing its efforts to implement the arms trade treaty through cooperation programmes with third countries. over the last decade, the union has made considerable efforts to improve export regulations on dual-use goods. the main thrust has been to ensure coherence between union policies in order to avoid legal confusion and excessive costs for the economic operators concerned. the implementation of the provisions of the new arms trade treaty should, as far as possible, be consistent with these principles. all eu institutions including parliament and council as well as member states and industry must remain committed to joining efforts to accelerate this implementation. the european union will use all its diplomatic channels and contacts with third countries to encourage ratification of the treaty. on 16 december the council adopted a programme of support for the implementation of the treaty. with a substantial budget of eur 6.4 million , it will support member states wishing to strengthen their arms transfer control systems. this will facilitate better implementation of the arms trade treaty. the assistance efforts under this union programme will be used in a broader regional and institutional context to exert peer pressure on those countries that are more sceptical of the att. these are the countries you mentioned in the debate. ladies and gentlemen, with your support, the first contribution of the union will be to enable the member states to ratify the arms trade treaty. i thank parliament for its commitment to this matter.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by zuzana roithová, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the european parliament and the council for a european parliament and council directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres (recast) (com (2011) 0772 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-0435/2011 - c7-04747474747/2011 - c7-035/2011 - c7-035/2011 - c7-047474747474747/2011 - c7-035/2011 - c7-027-035/2011 - c7-027-027-035/2011 - c7-067/2011 - c7-027-067/2011 - c7-067/2011 - c7-067/2011 - c7-067/2011 - c7-067/2011 - c7-067/2011 - c7-067/2011 - c7
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that mr cofferati's remarks make it very clear what the aim of parliament is, which is the same as that of the european commission: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not compromised. so it is true that these are, as we said, rules which appear to be very technical, but in reality they are a choice as a whole which aims to make the business system, the european real economy, more competitive. i would say that this is almost an example to be presented at a time when we need to develop the real economy, to support industry, to support small and mediumsized enterprises with concrete choices. one of the big problems is the bureaucratic burden: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why the european commission, in its latest document on entrepreneurial revival, has decided to propose three legislative initiatives - i hope that they can be presented by the commission as soon as possible - one to reduce the time and means to set up a business to three days and 100 euros, to reduce the granting of licences to 30 days and also to reduce the time for litigation in economic matters between debtors and creditors. so this is a choice we are making today together, the european commission and parliament, which goes in the general direction of developing the internal market with a strong focus on growth, using the tools of quality and reducing bureaucratic burdens. i am therefore very pleased that we have found common ground - beyond the legal problems which are, as mr harbour said, certainly important, concerning comitology, we have discussed and talked about them within the commission, it is an open debate - but i think that, beyond these purely legal problems, the signal we are giving to the european citizens today is a positive one. parliament, the commission and the institutions are moving in the direction of growth, in the direction of transparency, in the direction of the citizens, and this is the best way of responding to those who are calling for a different europe. today the president of the italian republic said that we cannot accept a europe which always says 'everything is fine, madame the marquise', but we must work to change europe, to make it more of a protagonist and closer to our fellow citizens, and i think that is what we have done today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the question of the 'blue card'. mr dartmouth, you seem to have a bad memory on the gibraltar issue, because the fact is that, in view of the incidents that are taking place at the gate and at the passage of people between the la linea area and gibraltar, the presence of commission inspectors has been requested to find out whether there is any kind of excess taking place in a place where schengen does not apply. i hope you will see what the inspectors have concluded: that there is no excess, but balance and an inexcusable obligation to prevent smuggling of tobacco.
mr president, we are now celebrating ten years since the first regulation on air passenger rights and in the meantime we have been adopting other regulations on rail, maritime and bus passenger rights; hence the need - and i welcome the commission's presentation - to update the rights of air passengers by improving information, convenience, transparency and ease of complaints. and, moreover, thanks to the rapporteur, mr bach, who is particularly sensitive to these aspects, we have been able to approach groups with special needs with special care: families with children who have to take the carts to the boarding area and then pick them up after departure, people with reduced mobility whose wheelchairs must also reach the boarding gate and be given to them afterwards, immediately after disembarking, and even professionals whose musical instruments also have the required safety. i am particularly grateful to the rapporteur for his sensitivity to amendments which were particularly dear to me, for example to make it easier for families with small children or disabled people to have their chairs or carts reach the boarding gate and be picked up immediately on departure; or to be able to carry, in addition to luggage - it has already been pointed out - a bag, such as the bags of mrs cramer or the bags with the products purchased in the shops at airports. i am also pleased that in this case we have succeeded in making the update even a deterrent for some companies i will not name. i am also glad that the issue of resolving insolvency cases, cases of bankruptcy of companies which have left their passengers in a terrible situation, has been accepted; we now require at least insurance or a guarantee fund from them. other amendments have been amended but i think they are also of interest, such as the updating of the amounts of compensation and indemnity, if not automatically, at least with a certain periodicity. i hope, commissioner, that you will make your proposal as soon as possible. we also asked that the company must provide access to toilets and water at all times. we have succeeded in at least cases of delays of more than one hour.
mr president, i believe that this bach report, which i commend because it is excellent, is a living example of the value of parliament's action in the codecision procedure. it is true that the commission proposed a balanced reform, which sought to protect the different positions of airspace operators, but it is no less true that the passenger was the most vulnerable. i believe that this report corrects this and makes a fiery defence of precisely that passenger who is sometimes faced with circumstances of helplessness. there are many aspects which have been improved and time does not permit me to mention them, but i will say that the cases of flight delays which will give rise to compensation are remarkable and that it is also remarkable that the passenger is allowed to disembark after two hours of delays on the tarmac. i also believe, commissioner, that in bankruptcy situations it is necessary to look for a way of guaranteeing. and i am bound to refer to gibraltar. i understand that this is a sensitive issue which may affect all british people of different colours. but the commission has, with good reason, referred - and has not been corrected by the committee on transport and tourism - to the 1987 london declaration, which does allow dialogue to be the way of solution between two friendly countries and suspends the application of community rules as soon as the parties agree. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. and so i think that what has been done is fair and is the best formula for absolutely everyone.
mr president, this regulation is essential to regulate a sector and a global problem involving companies and citizens from different member states and affecting mobility and competitiveness. the lack of definition in the previous regulation has created a real picaresque. the new rule facilitates and simplifies complaint procedures. it gives more details of the causes of the damage and the amount of the damage. it requires improved ground services and information. it will improve online sales services and ultimately make the lives of air transport users more comfortable. it provides solutions for the basics order, information, assistance and clarity in a collapsed airport and responses to abuses such as denied boarding on round-trip tickets for not having used the one-way, or the problem of shopping bags and low-cost companies, or that of musical instruments. finally, we are committed to greater efficiency so that there is no room for the arbitrariness which now affects the passage of disabled and reduced mobility passengers, which is still dependent on the interpretation that some companies give to these rules. i hope that parliament's proposals will be upheld.
member of the commission. - mr president, we know that seasonal migrant workers are needed in europe every year to fill vacancies in sectors such as agriculture and tourism during the busiest months. employers need them because there are simply not enough eu workers available for these types of work during the season. this is true even in difficult times like the present. however, as the rapporteur said, migrant seasonal work is not regulated and it is often associated with abuses. mr moraes mentioned the horrible scenes from rosarno, and there are many other examples of migrant workers being particularly vulnerable and in need of protection to prevent exploitation. such situations are often related, too, to irregular migration. taking account of both the economic perspective and the protection perspective, the commission brought forward a proposal for a directive regulating the entry, stay and rights of seasonal workers as long ago as 2010. it has been a long journey since then, and i want to thank the rapporteur, claude moraes, and co-rapporteurs sergio gaetano cofferati and alejandro cercas, for their work, as well as the eight council presidencies who have worked on this – from the belgians through to the current greek presidency. this directive will establish a fast-track procedure for the admission of non-eu seasonal workers. seasonal employment will be defined in the same way throughout the eu: it will concern activities that depend on the passage of the seasons and there will be a maximum time of stay. seasonal workers will now enjoy equal treatment with nationals in the host member states in terms of social security, employment and working conditions. member states are, of course, competent to determine on economic grounds how many migrants they admit, and they are also allowed to carry out labour market tests. this will ensure that third-country migrants fill real gaps in the labour market that cannot be filled by eu citizens and migrants who already reside legally in europe. we consider this to be a balanced compromise. we need harmonisation, and it would not have made any sense for all the member states to retain parallel schemes for seasonal employment. seasonal workers coming for periods of less than three months will also be covered by the directive and will have the same rights as seasonal workers staying a bit longer. the directive is also a tool for circular migration. it addresses the case of those migrants who come to the eu for a short period and then return to their country of origin at the end of the contract. facilitation to permit the re-entry of bona fide migrants is a good thing: we are helping to establish a good relationship between those who come to work and the employers who then know that they can trust these people. member state authorities can check that seasonal workers have access to appropriate accommodation. this is necessary, as we saw in rosarno, to prevent exploitation. in the end, what we have here is a good text, which was massively supported by the relevant committees in this house. it will protect vulnerable migrants from exploitation; it will increase transparency in sectors where irregular migration and exploitation have traditionally been too frequent; and it will clarify the procedures for employers who need workers during their busy seasons. a further important dimension is the fact that we are opening new avenues of legal migration to the eu. we know that it is very difficult to reach the eu in a legal way. with this directive, we are setting a good example of a legal channel, giving migrants an opportunity to seek and obtain work in a lawful manner. we can be proud of the work we have done. once again, i want to thank everybody involved.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, for his very good report. thank you all and thanks to that today we have a beautiful piece of legislation in a legislature in which, unfortunately, there has not been much legislation for workers. but there is one for this group of workers, who are probably the most in need of protection, the most vulnerable; we are seeing every day that they are more vulnerable and more prone to abuse. that is why the fact that we have achieved equal treatment in terms of working conditions and that they are now guaranteed freedom of association, trade union membership, the right to strike, all payments, access to social security, recognition of diplomas and the payment of their pensions is a huge advantage, which is linked to advantages in terms of housing; in short, to treat them with dignity, as human beings. i think we can be proud. i think the dignity with which these people are going to be treated dignifies us as well. i believe that a society measures its dignity by the dignity with which it treats the weakest and most vulnerable and these workers in agriculture and the tourist industry were being subjected on many occasions to ill-treatment and abuse. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i think this is a great moment, because we are going to ensure that these workers have equal rights and also because in this way we will put a stop to the xenophobic and racist sentiments that arise when workers arrive with worse working and living conditions. because, in the end, equal treatment is the cornerstone of a migration policy that is not only fair but also intelligent, one that leads to dignified treatment and one that also leads to putting a stop to xenophobia and racism. let me quote a phrase that i like very much, because as kapuściński said, we are all in the same boat and all the inhabitants of our planet are each other for each other. with that sense of brotherhood and with that sense of dignity, the european union today is giving a lesson to the world and hopefully other pieces will follow that we need so that migration, instead of being a problem for many people, is a solution for all.
mr president, with the adoption of this directive we are going to solve issues which are closely linked to irregular migration, the fight against organised crime, the fraudulent labour market and the underground economy. it was necessary to create a legal framework to provide cover and protection for seasonal workers to prevent them from being treated as second-class workers. trafficking for the purpose of labour exploitation is a growing reality in most developed countries, which has become extraordinarily acute due to the economic crisis. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. this directive is part of the 2005 legal migration policy plan and contributes to the effective management of migratory flows of a specific category such as temporary seasonal migration, and ensures decent living and working conditions for them, which will protect them from abuse. in addition, the possibility is given for unions and non-governmental organizations to file complaints on behalf of victims who are afraid to do so. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal, mrs malmström, and i also warmly congratulate claude moraes and my compatriot alejandro cercas and all the alternative rapporteurs on having achieved a virtually unanimous agreement. in doing so, you have contributed - and we will contribute - to protecting the most vulnerable migrants and ensuring that they are treated equally in the european labour market.
mr president, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i have the honour of chairing, has cooperated with the committee on employment and social affairs, pursuant to rule 50, to bring this directive forward, which not only fulfils an objective proclaimed in the lisbon treaty, but something more important: it gives a chance to legal immigration, establishing equal treatment and improving the working conditions of at least one million seasonal workers, who are characterized by the precariousness and the temporary nature of their jobs, but above all by the low level of qualification required, usually due to their low pay and their social vulnerability. and so it is an affirmation of equal treatment which is absolutely necessary. and i believe that, in view of the development of what will come after the stockholm programme, the future ambitions with which we will have to work in the next legislature, the great challenge is to give a real chance to legal immigration, which is the best way to combat irregular immigration and, above all, the inhumane exploitation of workers and to restore dignity to work, which has been badly damaged in this crisis. why would you do that? this crisis management has been characterised by a biased and negative view of immigration as a threat to internal security. and it's not that. we are told that it is demographic reasons, because europe is ageing. they tell us that for economic reasons, because we need them. but above all, moral reasons, to live up to the values which the european union claims to proclaim once and for all.
madam president, asturias and north-west spain are suffering from a terrible storm, with many victims. i would point this out to you, ladies and gentlemen, because we are going to need european funds and your solidarity.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report, although i agree with much of what is said in it, because i believe that no migrant can be considered illegal. the universal declaration of human rights recognizes the right to migrate for all people and this report continues to criminalize people who migrate in search of a better future. this report contains a large number of points which seek to improve the protection of the rights of undocumented migrant women in the member states, which is certainly a fundamental task and one which i fully share. however, this drive to improve the situation of migrant women cannot be at the expense of recognising the criminalisation of migrant people. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour, despite the fact that we lost some very good parts of the text we wanted in. as usual, the situation of undocumented migrant women is direr than that of men. they face a double discrimination due to their gender and legal status (or even a triple discrimination if one counts race). migrant women are more vulnerable to physical abuse in general, but undocumented ones are even more so because their legal status puts them in such a position where they cannot reach to the police or hospitals or shelters for help and their abuser knows this and exploits this situation. for example, there have been cases where unscrupulous landlords have exploited this vulnerability of undocumented migrant women and have physically and sexually abused them in exchange for providing them with a place to live. undocumented migrant women who find themselves in an abusive situation cannot even readily access women’s shelters. most state-run women’s shelters require some form of identification in order to receive the person, so the victims are left with the awful choice between remaining in the abusive situation or becoming homeless.
in writing. - a sensitive issue such as illegal or legal immigration cannot be left out of the interests of this parliament, especially if we understand the direct exponential relationship when we refer to the fact that undocumented immigrants are in this case women, which means that they are also a more vulnerable 'target' in the face of discrimination and the possibility of falling into the hands of criminal networks of human exploitation. the work must clearly be joint between member states and organisations directly linked to so-called 'civil society', while safeguarding the applicable union directives in this case. protection must be promoted so that these women not only have an adequate legal framework but also protection against possible abuse.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, although i share many of the points in it which improve the working conditions and rights of migrant seasonal workers in europe, this report is part of the basis for the criminalisation of migration. the report is presented as a great act of charity towards seasonal workers, but it is based on the view that migrants are labour at the service of agriculture, so that when they stop working in the areas of europe with the highest unemployment, where the majority of these workers reside, they will no longer have these rights. it is because of this underlying criminalization of migrants and because of the view that they are instruments at the mercy of the market needs that i have voted against this report.
in writing. - in favour. the 2005 commission communication on ‘a policy plan on legal migration’ provided for a proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of seasonal workers, considering that ‘seasonal workers are regularly needed in certain sectors, where many immigrants work illegally under precarious conditions’. the commission published its proposal in july 2010 in a package together with the proposal on intra-corporate transfers. the need for seasonal workers from outside the eu is a common phenomenon in most member states, and a framework at eu level for the management of this migration could provide real added value. in this respect, it is also noted that providing legal routes for migration can play an important role in reducing irregular migration and the exploitation that often accompanies it. it is also vital that this directive pay close attention to the need for equal treatment in the eu labour market, to ensure that pay and working conditions are not undermined. the rapporteur therefore welcomes this proposal in general, while noting that some areas need to be significantly strengthened.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rapporteur's report calling for the repeal of regulation (ec) no 827/2004 prohibiting the import of products derived from bigeye tuna from bolivia, cambodia, georgia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone. the regulation dates back to the 1990s, when the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) was at the forefront of the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing, especially against those countries suspected of not respecting international rules and standards. much progress has been made in combating illegal fishing, but bluefin and bigeye tuna remain valuable species for which much remains to be done. i therefore agree with the adoption of this report today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it establishes the possibility of implementing in the european union restrictive trade measures of a non-discriminatory nature against countries fishing for tuna and similar species, thus restricting the effectiveness of the iccat. there are several countries which do not properly apply international agreements concerning tuna fishing and therefore this report proposes to limit imports of atlantic bigeye tuna until the international agreements protecting these species are put into effect. this is a necessary trade sanction so that countries which do not comply with these international agreements will see that such non-compliance has serious trade consequences. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. the proposal from the commission concerns the repeal of regulation 827/2004, which prohibited the importation of bigeye tuna products from bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone. that regulation has its origins in the 1990s, in the glory days when iccat was at the forefront of the fight against iuu fishing, even before it was commonly referred to as iuu fishing. at the time, iccat was pioneering the use of innovative tools and was the first to impose import bans on countries that were suspected of allowing vessels flying their flag to disregard international rules and norms. it was also the first, or at least among the first, to establish blacklists of vessels that had been observed fishing illegally or extra-legally. this chapter of iccat’s history deserves a serious analysis, for it forms a critical part of the international campaign against iuu fishing, but that is beyond the scope of this simple report. initially, iccat took action against non-contracting parties, adopting resolutions that led to a number of import bans for various products (bluefin tuna, bigeye tuna, swordfish). then, confronted with accusations of bias for only acting against non-contracting parties, it began to act against contracting parties as well.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an agreement which can be beneficial for both parties involved, while at the same time proposing an environmentally friendly and sustainable exploitation of the fishery resources present on the gabonese coast. the agreement will allow 35 european tuna vessels to fish in gabonese waters in return for fair compensation which has been accepted by both parties to the protocol. the protocol also provides for the development of tuna processing industries in gabon, so that jobs are created in the local economy and that this activity has a positive impact beyond the consideration. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. on the basis of the powers conferred on it by the council, the european commission has conducted negotiations with the gabonese republic with a view to renewing the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the gabonese republic. the previous protocol was in force between 3 december 2005 and 2 december 2011. after two rounds of negotiations, two issues remained to be settled. the first concerned the conditions governing suspension of the application of the protocol, at the initiative of one of the parties. the second related to the conditions governing the payment intended for sectoral support. the non-renewal of the protocol meant that eu fishing vessels were forced to cease fishing activities after 2 december 2011, since the ‘exclusivity clause’ provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) remained in force. the protocol covered 40 vessels (24 purse seiners and 16 longliners). the member states affected were france, portugal and spain.
in writing. - i want to express my support for the ratification of the eu-gabon fisheries protocol, which has been provisionally applied since july 2013. this protocol means that the european fleet will return for three years to the most important fishing ground for the tuna fleet in the atlantic ocean off africa. after two years of absence following the breakdown of negotiations in 2011 due to differences over the human rights clause, the current protocol allows 27 purse seiners and 8 european longliners to fish. the fishing opportunities for surface longliners are not renewed, but the presence of tuna seiners, which are more selective, is foreseen for the first time. in the case of spain, a total of 22 tuna vessels (15 freezer vessels and 7 reelers) will benefit. the european financial contribution amounts to eur 1 350 000, of which eur 900 000 is linked to the 20 000 reference tonnes of access rights and eur 450 000 is to support the development of the gabonese fisheries sector. in addition, each shipowner shall pay a fee of eur 55 per tonne caught in the first year and eur 65 per tonne from the second year onwards. a national fee of eur 13 750 per year shall also be charged.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it presents a proposal for a decision which focuses on the most important social and environmental aspects of the island of greenland's relationship with the rest of the european union. greenland is now an overseas territory, governed by council decision 2006/526/ec which expired on 31 december 2006. this new proposal sets the framework for relations during the 2014-2020 period, and these relations now focus on aspects of civil society participation, educational and social programmes, etc., beyond the mere interest in the island's natural resources and emphasizing the protection of its delicate environment. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. greenland is one of 26 overseas countries and territories covered by part iv of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and listed in annex ii to the treaty. greenland is the largest island on the planet, but 81% of its surface is covered by ice. it has a population of 57 000 and its gdp is almost usd 36 000 per capita. the economy of this territory is principally controlled by the public sector and largely dependent on fishing, which accounts for 80% of its exports. greenland has a relatively high level of human development, but this is mainly due to financial support from denmark. furthermore, its population suffers from generally inadequate levels of education and professional training; there is not enough educational and professional guidance for young people and a high percentage fail to complete their schooling.
in writing. - this own-initiative report is parliament's contribution to the launch of the debate on the commission's green paper on insurance against natural and man-made disasters, which raises a number of questions concerning the adequacy and availability of disaster insurance. the aim is to raise awareness and assess whether action at eu level could be appropriate or justified to improve the disaster insurance market in the european union. the report concludes that a one-size-fits-all solution to this problem is not feasible. it recalls that tailor-made insurance products depend on many factors, such as the type of risks, the culture and the approach adopted by the member states.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains many proposals which i can share, it does not mention at any point any of the reasons or causes underlying the increase in manmade disasters. the report merely notes that there are more disasters due to human intervention and that further research is therefore needed. the report argues that there cannot be contradictory regulations in the regulation of insurance between natural and man-made disasters, which are currently separate markets and can cause problems. the report does not identify the causes of the problems or propose any solution through environmental care, nor does it point to the increase in the insurance sector, which is the big beneficiary and can generate dangerous speculative products. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. prevention is the most important factor in terms of protecting people and avoiding losses caused by unexpected events. the eu has a role in developing a more responsible society which gives enough thought to precautionary measures and in creating a culture of prevention, enhancing citizens’ awareness of both natural and man-made risks. more research may yield a detailed framework of different situations, with regard to understanding and preventing environmental risks and reducing uncertainty in this field. partnerships between insurance companies and research institutes should be aimed at pooling resources, skills and risk expertise in order to better understand the issues involved, thus preparing citizens and their communities so that they are better able to face risks related to natural catastrophes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this consultation because it is a consultation of the european economic and social committee on how the structure and organisation of the social dialogue in the next economic and monetary union will be approached. it is essential that social actors know how the implementation of economic and monetary union will integrate the different forms of social dialogue. this consultation will enable the european economic and social committee to be heard by the european parliament, so that the social partners can contribute their views in this area. it is because consultation provides the opportunity to raise the voice of the social dialogue actors that i have decided to vote in favour of this consultation of the eesc.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a second generation agreement between the european union and switzerland which seeks to improve and speed up relations between the eu member states and switzerland. the agreement contains specific provisions on the exchange of evidence when the swiss authorities and other authorities of an eu member state are investigating the same case at the same time. the amendment will make it possible to prosecute more effectively criminals who use the country to launder money they extract from the rest of the eu member states, where they stop paying taxes. switzerland is the eu's third largest economic partner and the agreement also includes anti-competitive measures for trade between switzerland and the eu. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. after concluding competition cooperation agreements with the us, canada, japan and south korea, the commission has now reached a ‘first second-generation’ agreement with switzerland. unlike its predecessors, this agreement also includes provisions on the exchange of evidence obtained by competition authorities when investigating the same case, which will contribute to more effective enforcement of competition law.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because, although it includes aspects intended to improve legal certainty in the international agreements signed by the eu, it is solely concerned with ensuring that the competition rules which are so damaging to european industries are applied. the report merely suggests improving cooperation with third countries with which the european union currently has trade agreements so that anti-competitive practices do not occur in these third countries. however, it is this competition within the union that has led to the sanctions against the shipping industry for the use of tax leases; it is this competition that is deindustrialising europe. that is why i could not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - in favour. such an agreement with switzerland is necessary, considering switzerland’s strategic geographic location for the eu, the presence of many eu companies in switzerland and vice versa, and the number of parallel investigations conducted by both jurisdictions in the recent past. implementation of the agreement will be facilitated by the high degree of compatibility of eu and swiss substantive competition rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it is the first arms trade treaty to go beyond the previous model of international decision-making. this treaty, which was adopted by the united nations general assembly on 2 april, is a breakthrough; it will obviously not be the panacea, since it has been designed to avoid affecting the interests of the large arms industries of the countries that make up the united nations security council, but it is a breakthrough which will affect the member states of the european union. this authorization allows these states to ratify the said arms trade treaty so that they must increase controls on the exports of arms produced by their arms industries. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. unlike weapons of mass destruction and land mines, trade in conventional weapons has not been subject to any legally-binding global instruments. the arms trade treaty is intended to close this gap. after long negotiations, the treaty was adopted on 2 april 2013 through a resolution of the united nations general assembly. three states voted against the treaty (north korea, iran and syria) and 22 abstained (including china, india and russia, which could result in slow ratification and possibly incomplete implementation in these countries). the arms trade treaty establishes a common international standard for the regulation of international trade in conventional weapons and, to some extent, on ammunition, parts and components. it also aims to prevent and eradicate the illicit trade in these weapons.
in writing. - the arms trade treaty establishes common international standards for the regulation of international transfers in conventional weapons and, to some extent, ammunition and parts and components. it also aims to prevent and eradicate the illicit trade in these weapons. there is already very good and clear language in the recital part of the report. it is made very clear that arms trade is an important section of the world economy but that this business is extremely risky due to the simple fact that ‘one of the eight million weapons manufactured daily worldwide are lost or stolen’. the report welcomes the inclusion of small and light weapons, ammunition/munitions and parts and components. in addition, the report – on the basis of a green/efa amendment – ‘regrets that the trade of weaponised remotely piloted air systems (drones) is not included in the scope of the treaty’. so i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it raises the effects of the implementation of the arms trade treaty on the legislation and activities of the member states of the european union. the resolution welcomes the implications of this agreement for trade of such a large volume and with such dire consequences. at present, states can export under a control system which is a genuine 'free-range' since in practice no export licence is withdrawn. a binding international treaty has taken the first step in slowing down the arms industry and the wealth it manages to extract from the death of human beings. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - in favour. the conclusion under the auspices of the united nations of a legally binding arms trade treaty on international trade in conventional arms after seven years of long negotiations is very good news. the treaty aims to establish the highest possible common international standards for regulating the international trade in conventional arms, and to prevent and eradicate the illicit trade in conventional arms for the purpose of contributing to international and regional peace, security and stability and the reduction of human suffering. the effective implementation of the treaty may significantly contribute to enhancing respect for international human rights and humanitarian law worldwide; welcomes the substantial contribution of civil society organisations from the inception to the adoption of the arms trade treaty.
in writing. - all trade must be regulated and support for the development of specific codes for all trade in military goods in general, in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights, among others, must be a priority for the european parliament. the relevant applications of the att to the european arms industry can thus be supported by full guarantees of compliance. the transparency in this area and sector must be enforced and strictly observed, and everything related to the corresponding monitoring and accountability must be strengthened, in order to prevent possible transfers of illegal weapons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it opens up a very interesting avenue for developing anti-dumping policies within the union which will serve to protect our industrial fabric. the basque industrial fabric is well aware of the consequences of dumping by third countries, for example in shipyards. social and environmental aspects have also been introduced.
in writing. - in favour. the commission proposal, aiming at modernising both the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations, entails four central changes: the removal of the lesser duty rule in anti-dumping cases where structural raw material distortions are present and in all anti-subsidy cases, the obligation for union producers to cooperate in ex-officio investigations, the reimbursement of duties collected during expiry reviews, and the two weeks’ notice before provisional duties are introduced, commonly referred to as the shipping clause. the commission’s rationale is based on three objectives: to increase the effectiveness of the instruments, to reduce the threat of retaliation from third country, and to increase transparency and predictability. the rapporteur welcomes these three objectives and believes that they have to be combined in order to keep public trust in the instruments. the rapporteur therefore wishes to outline the core of the draft report by raising the below questions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it involves the adoption of implementing acts by the european commission for the proper implementation of the rules of the common fisheries policy in the different member states of the european union. the report provides for the introduction of appropriate control measures on the implementing acts adopted by the commission, urging that the opinion of the regional advisory councils as well as the opinion of stakeholders be taken into account when adopting those acts. the report thus sets out a path for the implementation of the common fisheries policy which takes into account the participation of all the parties concerned. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - against. this report attempts to begin the process of weakening the control regulation. we have asked for a separate, roll-call vote on amendment 5, which calls on the commission to consider a number of important changes in the substance of the control regulation, such as: the 10% margin of tolerance in the logbook; notification times for vessels entering into port; the ‘administrative burden’ of weighing catches; publicity given to infractions, etc. the reform has created significant new responsibilities and their implementation can only be assured by an effective control system. parliament has just won a significant increase in money for control and surveillance, an indication of the importance that parliament attaches to good control. this amendment goes in exactly the opposite direction and should be rejected. in the committee on fisheries, everybody is always saying how effective and objective control is essential to the cfp. if they really believe that, this amendment should have been rejected and the report should have limited itself to the alignment of the control regulation to the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it improves the safety and labelling requirements for potentially dangerous products placed on the market in the various member states of the european union. the report addresses an objective need arising from the implementation of the common market: it is necessary to regulate both the safety conditions and the labelling requirements for products which may be potentially dangerous. the diversity of regulations may present certain risks for european consumers. the report deals in particular with labelling to enable every european citizen to have secure access to product information. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - in favour. this report brings modifications to a commission proposal recasting directive 94/9/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmosphere. it was presented in november 2011 in the framework of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf) adopted in 2008 as ‘the goods package’ covering the complementary instruments, decision 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products, and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation 765/2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. the present proposal is part of a package aligning nine product directives to the nlf.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it improves the safety and labelling requirements for explosives for civil use which are marketed in the various member states of the european union. the report addresses an objective need arising from the implementation of the common market: it is necessary to regulate both the safety conditions and the labelling requirements for products which may be potentially dangerous, such as civil explosives. the diversity of regulations may present certain risks for european consumers. the report deals in particular with labelling to enable every european citizen to have secure access to product information. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - in favour. this report brings modifications to a proposal of the european commission recasting council directive 93/15/eec on the harmonization of the provisions relating to the placing on the market and supervision of explosives for civil uses. it has been presented in november 2011 in the framework of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf) adopted in 2008 as ‘the goods package’ covering the complementary instruments, decision 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products, and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation 765/2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. the present proposal is part of a package aligning nine product directives to the nlf.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it improves the requirements and requirements for the control, evaluation and labelling of non-automatic weighing instruments on the market in the various member states of the european union. the report addresses an objective need arising from the implementation of the common market: it is necessary to regulate the conditions of consumer safety by requiring the same requirements for each member state. the diversity of regulations may present certain risks for european consumers. the report deals in particular with labelling to enable every european citizen to have secure access to information on such products. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - in favour. this report brings modifications to a proposal of the european commission recasting directive 2009/23/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to non-automatic weighing instruments. it was presented in november 2011 within the framework of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf) adopted in 2008 as ‘the goods package’ covering the complementary instruments, decision 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products, and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation 765/2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. the present proposal is part of a package aligning nine product directives to the nlf.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it improves the requirements and requirements for monitoring, evaluation and labelling with regard to the electromagnetic compatibility of the various products marketed in the various member states of the european union. the report addresses an objective need arising from the implementation of the common market: it is necessary to regulate the conditions of consumer safety by requiring the same requirements for each member state. the diversity of regulations may present certain risks for european consumers. the report focuses on labelling to ensure that every european citizen has secure access to information on the electromagnetic compatibility of products marketed in the eu. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - in favour. this report brings modifications to a proposal of the european commission recasting directive 2004/108/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to electromagnetic compatibility. it was presented in november 2011 in the framework of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf) adopted in 2008 as ‘the goods package’ covering the complementary instruments, decision 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products, and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation 765/2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. the present proposal is part of a package aligning nine product directives to the nlf.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it improves the control, evaluation and labelling requirements for products intended for use within certain voltage limits which are marketed in the various member states of the european union. the report addresses an objective need arising from the implementation of the common market: it is necessary to regulate the conditions of consumer safety by requiring the same requirements for each member state. the diversity of regulations may present certain risks for european consumers. the report deals in particular with labelling to enable every european citizen to have secure access to information on voltage limits for the use of these products marketed in the eu. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - in favour. this report brings modifications to a proposal of the european commission recasting directive 2006/95/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of member states relating to electrical equipment designed for use within certain voltage limits. it was presented in november 2011 within the framework of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf) adopted in 2008 as ‘the goods package’ covering the complementary instruments, decision 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products, and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation 765/2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. the present proposal is part of a package aligning nine product directives to the nlf.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive establishes that economic operators should be responsible for the conformity of lifts and safety components for lifts, according to their respective roles in the supply chain, in order to ensure a high level of protection of public interests such as health, safety and consumer protection, including a high level of protection of vulnerable consumers in cases where lifts are intended for the transport of persons, and fair competition on the union market. it is interesting to note how the european parliament puts the emphasis not only on economic operators but also on consumers/users of lifts. the contribution of parliament is also of vital importance as regards persons with disabilities, as it provides that the harmonised standards relevant to this directive should also take full account of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, signed by the european union on 23 december 2010.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it improves the safety and labelling requirements for lifts and safety components for lifts which are marketed in the various member states of the european union. this report addresses an objective need arising from the implementation of the common market: it is necessary to regulate both the safety conditions and the labelling requirements for products which may pose risks. the diversity of regulations may present certain risks for european consumers. the report deals in particular with the safety and adaptation of such products for disabled people. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - in favour. this report brings modifications to a proposal of the european commission recasting directive 95/16/ec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to lifts. it was presented in november 2011 in the framework of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf) adopted in 2008 as ‘the goods package’ covering the complementary instruments, decision 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products, and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation 765/2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. the present proposal is part of a package aligning nine product directives to the nlf.
in writing. - in line with the new product regulatory framework (nrf), the directive 2009/105/ec on the manufacture and placing on the market of simple pressure vessels was discussed. the safety requirements discussed concern in particular materials, design standards, manufacturing procedures and the placing of products in service. their use must not jeopardise safety at any stage of the product's life cycle and in particular the risks of leakage and explosion must be preserved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it improves the safety and labelling requirements for potentially dangerous products, such as simple pressure vessels, which are marketed in the various member states of the european union. this report addresses an objective need arising from the implementation of the common market: it is necessary to regulate both the safety conditions and the labelling requirements for products which may be potentially dangerous. the diversity of regulations may present certain risks for european consumers. the report deals in particular with labelling to enable every european citizen to have secure access to product information. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - in favour. this report brings modifications to a proposal of the european commission recasting directive 2009/105/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to making available on the market of simple pressure vessels. it has been presented in november 2011 in the framework of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf) adopted in 2008 as ‘the goods package’ covering the complementary instruments, decision 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products, and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation 765/2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. the present proposal is part of a package aligning nine product directives to the nlf.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it improves the requirements and requirements for the control, evaluation and labelling of measuring instruments placed on the market in the various member states of the european union. this report addresses an objective need arising from the implementation of the common market: it is necessary to regulate the conditions of consumer safety by requiring the same requirements for each member state. the diversity of regulations may present certain risks for european consumers. the report deals in particular with labelling to enable every european citizen to have secure access to information on such products. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - in favour. this report brings modifications to a proposal of the european commission recasting directive 2004/22/ec on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to measuring instruments. it was presented in november 2011 in the framework of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf) adopted in 2008 as ‘the goods package’ covering the complementary instruments, decision 768/2008 on a common framework for the marketing of products, and repealing council decision 93/465/eec and regulation 765/2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing regulation (eec) no 339/93. the present proposal is part of a package aligning nine product directives to the nlf.
in writing. - the proposal for a new regulation deserves a very positive assessment as it aims to improve the clarification of the fundamental principles and the implicit rights of passengers which have given rise to many controversies between airlines and passengers in the past, as well as to improve and coordinate better the enforcement policies carried out at national level. the existing legislation in this area is incomplete and there is inconsistent application of the existing regulation by both carriers and national authorities, which causes confusion for passengers and industry. the main issues i would like to highlight are the definition of 'extraordinary circumstances', the right to compensation in case of delay, the right to change of route, the right to attention, missed connecting flights, rescheduling, delays on the runway, the partial ban on the 'no-show policy' and the right to information.
in writing. - in favour. the aviation industry has undergone significant changes in recent years, which are associated with an increase in the number of passengers and flights in the liberalised european market. however, this generally positive development has been accompanied, in a way, by the application of unfair practices and a reduction in the quality of services, with negative consequences for travellers. in addition, since the entry into force of the regulation in 2004, problems can be observed with respect to varied interpretations resulting from grey zones and gaps in the existing regulation, non-uniform enforcement across member states, and the difficulty experienced by passengers in enforcing their rights when air carriers are in breach of the legislation. parliament has already expressed its opinions on several of these points in the context of its resolutions adopted in 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to promote an improvement in the regulation of insolvency proceedings throughout the european union. the differences between the different laws of the member states open up a space for competitive advantages or disadvantages between companies from different countries of the union, as well as the possibility of fraud in multinational companies that can take advantage of the different laws of the member states. in this context, relative harmonization is both necessary and desirable in view of the implementation of the common market and greater economic integration in the eu. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - in favour. the commission’s proposal is an important initiative. parliament asked for in its report with recommendations to the commission on insolvency proceedings in the context of eu company law (2011/2006(ini)), adopted in plenary in october 2011. parliament’s observation in the report, namely that ‘there are certain areas of insolvency law where harmonisation is worthwhile and achievable’, is still valid today. it cannot be neglected that ‘disparities between national insolvency laws create competitive advantages or disadvantages and difficulties for companies with cross-border activities which could become obstacles to a successful restructuring of insolvent companies’.
in writing. - it is precisely in these times of economic crisis that the cases in which the competent judicial body can exercise its functions must be specially regulated in order to be able to carry out the corresponding procedures on this fact, whether it concerns a natural or legal person, an individual or a company. the aim of the regulation is also to resolve possible questions of jurisdiction which might arise in the application of the regulatory framework which the european union had already defined at the time, precisely in order to harmonise the arrangements relating to insolvency proceedings, especially between legal entities in different countries of the union. the regulation of the corresponding procedures, by means of the time limits set, will enhance the guarantee necessary for the correct application of the rule.
the next item is the debate on the report of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in ukraine (2014/2547 ((rsp)). mr verhofstadt has told me that he wants to raise a question of compliance with the rules of procedure. i would like to ask you, mr verhofstadt, to take the floor.
mr verhofstadt, without going into the relevance of your words, it is clear that this is not a question of compliance with the rules. mr verhofstadt, please understand that i, as the president, naturally do not make any value judgments, although i understand that many members are uncomfortable with the fact that the vice-president responsible for the matter does not appear before the house at a time like this when, indeed, what parliament says about this seems to me to be very decisive and, of course, listening to her is also decisive for what parliament may say. i do not make any value judgments from the presidency, but i do understand your concern, which is probably shared by a large number of honourable members. since mrs ashton is not present, she is represented by commissioner füle, who will be sure to do so very successfully as he always does when he speaks in parliament.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our visit to kiev last week allowed us to take stock of the situation, which is certainly very high, almost explosive, in contrast to the ambient temperature of almost 25 degrees below zero. and after the resignation of the government, the repeal of the laws restricting freedom of speech and debate and the approval of the amnesty law, the entry into force of which was conditional on the eviction of official buildings, we can draw a conclusion and that is that there has been a breakdown of trust between the parties. and that breakdown of confidence is putting at risk the road map for constitutional reform, for possible early elections and for a financial package which must be subject to the conditions to which mr brok has referred. i hope that the efforts being made by the high representative in kiev will help to restore that trust. i also look to commissioner füle and the efforts he is making. and i think that at this stage the most important thing is to set up a mediation activity which can verify the fulfilment of the commitments that the parties have loyally assumed. the aim cannot and must not be other than to ensure a peaceful and dialogue-based channel through which the people of ukraine can democratically express their preferred choice. and the terms of that choice are two - mr verhofstadt has referred to them - either a return to the past, a return to autocratic regimes, a return to the soviet paradise, or, mr president, an option for the european union. and that choice, mr president, should not be decided in moscow or brussels or anywhere else. it must be decided, as i have said, freely, peacefully and democratically by the citizens of ukraine, who must be the sole arbiters of their own destiny.
mr posselt, i will not give the floor to any member to ask a 'blue card' question because to do so would mean that two or three members would not be able to speak when we have a very long list of speakers and we are already very late. i will not authorize any 'blue card' question because it is the president's exclusive power to do so and the president has decided that he will not do so so that members who are entitled to speak can do so because they are on the list of speakers for the turn to speak under the 'catch the eye' procedure.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, the last intervention in particular allows me to follow this logic in reacting to this very rich debate. i have six points to share with you. the first point is an assessment. any good policy is a good policy only if it is based on good assessment and if the lessons learned are taken into account. a reality check only works if you are ready to accept that there are other things that you could do better. i could offer you my own personal assessment. we have been focusing on benchmarks with ukraine, but that leaves no time and space for preparing for the implementation of an association agreement. those eleven benchmarks for ukraine to deliver on to create the conditions for signing the association agreement are also preconditions for the european union. many people are saying that ukraine made tremendous progress in 2013, working on those benchmarks. but working on the conditions to sign the association agreement and trying to build a consensus in this house and in the council did not provide us with enough space to prepare for the implementation of the association agreement and particularly the dcfta. if we had the time, there would be less space for so many misinterpretations of what the association agreement is about – or rather what it is not about. the second point concerns russia: our eastern european policy and the consensus there, as well as on the border between ukraine and russia and on the borders of our partners and russia. it was clear that the last summit between the european union and russia – and we will have a separate point to discuss this – made a step towards this, but we need dialogue with russia. our policy vis-à-vis our neighbours should also be a policy vis-à-vis the neighbours of our neighbours. the third point is that, if we were serious about reforming that part of europe, have we also been serious about choosing the most powerful instrument we have for the transformation of reforms? why did we win the nobel peace prize – for the association agreement? no. it was for enlargement and for breaking down the walls. the second point: plan. the only point which could work is the plan which the ukrainians might come up with through dialogue. no plan in brussels or moscow would succeed. the next point concerns strategy. our strategy – and we have a strategy – is not centred around sanctions. it is centred around engagement: engagement based on our values and principles. it has three clear stages. the first stage is de-escalation: stopping the spiral of violence and ensuring a minimum of stability and security. there have been a number of points that stakeholders in ukraine are trying to deliver on. but there is a second stage. the second stage is about the political process. it is about the platform for inclusive political dialogue to tackle the medium and long-term challenges of ukraine, and there are many. members have referred to most of them. in that second stage, the ukrainians will have to address issues such as constitutional change. they would need to address the issue of creating the conditions for free and fair elections, because the record of the previous elections is not good. the ukrainians have actually gone backwards rather than forwards. i am one who strongly believes that, for free and fair elections to happen in the ukraine, one has first to create the conditions before calling for an early election. but there is also a third stage, and that is one that you have debated many times. it is about the association agreement. it is about political association, and our programme of reforms for ukraine strengthen democracy and the rule of law. it is about the blueprint for economic reforms to bring investment and prosperity for ukraine, but it is also about people-to-people contact. it is about being visa-free. it is not because of us but, unfortunately, because of ukrainians that we do not see such progress on this particular issue, as we have seen, for example, in our relations with moldova. my fourth point concerns results. there are results showing that the strategy is working. we had a revocation of the package of undemocratic laws of 16 january. we had the resignation of the government, which was unable to handle the people’s aspirations in the maidan – and not only in kiev but in other maidans too. it is not perfect, but we have amnesty law. we have an observance by law enforcement agencies and the police of not using excessive force. the case of dmytro bulatov, the leader of automaidan, has clearly shown that, despite those results, there are other issues related to basic human rights that we need to observe – the fact that on ukrainian terrority we are witnessing the kidnapping and torture of people, and that there are still a number of people unaccounted for, is something which is very difficult to accept, and it needs to stop. another point when we are talking about results is that this is a race against time, because the more time it takes for the parties to establish a certain level of confidence and find a way out, the more time there is for extremism and radicalism and those elements which are not under control to grow throughout ukraine. that brings me to my fifth point: the bigger picture. the bigger picture concerns the future relationship between the european union and the european integration project, with its historical record, and another project which is in the making: the eurasian union. but it is a relationship which should be not based on the zero-sum game. the european union’s strength since its inception has always been in finding win-win solutions, even in seemingly hopeless situations. let us do our best to avoid backtracking from this approach. that brings me to the sixth and final point: the future. i believe the future needs to be about three things. it needs to be about us delivering on what this new neighbourhood policy has put forward as the main principle: that the relationship we are seeking is not only with the authorities but with the citizens of the country, and we should not fail them. secondly, we should not only talk about the sovereign decisions of the countries and their right to make sovereign decisions; we also need to help them to establish the conditions whereby they are free to make such decisions. finally, if we are all really serious about reform and transformation in this part of europe, let us be serious in choosing the strongest instrument we have, namely a european perspective.
the debate was closed by the submission of seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the role of europe in the central african republic (2014/2537 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the union has one of its most important foreign policy challenges in syria. it is clear that the situation in syria is very complex and difficult to resolve. it is also clear that the democratic solution to the syrian conflict must take account of the ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic diversity of syria, something which mr füle has not even mentioned. it is clear that, with the kurdish minority being one of the largest in syria - 10% of the population - it is difficult to achieve a democratic and sustainable resolution of the syrian conflict without the kurdish people. it is clear that part of the territory of syria western kurdistan is controlled and governed by the so-called western kurdistan people's council, in which the kurds are the majority. it is clear that the kurdish minority is not adequately represented in the geneva 2 talks, as both the most representative party the pyd and the popular council have been excluded. it is clear that the presence of the most significant representatives of the kurdish minority in the talks for a democratic solution to the syrian conflict is absolutely necessary to ensure their success. i therefore call on the commission to encourage the participation of representatives of the west kurdistan people's council in the talks to resolve the syrian conflict.
mr president, i believe that the crisis management mechanism of article 33 must be activated as soon as possible and the action plan put into effect. as i see it, we are not in the presence of an emergency situation, but in the presence of an emergency situation. the bulgarians cannot do it alone. the european union must show solidarity. and in the emergency area, what i think is appropriate is to provide three fundamental things: to provide shelter, to provide health care and to provide food. that's the emergency wrapper. i do not want to talk about asylum or border controls yet, because experience tells me - in other cases of recent wars near europe - that the syrians do not want to stay. what they want is to save their lives, and then come back. so the cooperation and solidarity of the european union are absolutely necessary. alone, they can't.
i call on the presidency of the council and on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative, mr president, three years have passed since egyptian citizens from all walks of life rose up against an oppressive regime to demand freedom, human dignity, social justice, better living conditions. throughout this period, europe has stood by the egyptian people in order to support the participation of all political forces in the political process and the democratic transition. we remain committed to our support for the egyptian people. many people have lost their lives in the struggle for a democratic society and a better future for themselves, their children, their families. many more have been injured or suffered other consequences. we have therefore been following with great concern the acts of violence and loss of life that marked the period before and during the recent referendum, as well as the third anniversary of the egyptian revolution. the high representative, mrs ashton, condemned in the strongest terms all acts of violence, extremism and terrorist attacks. the ratification of the new constitution by the referendum on 14 and 15 january is undoubtedly a positive development which we hope will allow the rapid and full implementation of the road map followed by the transitional government of egypt on the path towards democratic normalisation. this will also help to overcome the problems which arose during the drafting of the constitution. it is of the utmost importance to guarantee fundamental freedoms, in particular the freedoms of assembly and of political expression. the european message is clear: without full respect for human rights, the road map can certainly lead nowhere. the new constitutional charter suggests improvements, particularly in the chapter on human rights which includes freedom of expression, assembly, women's rights. the full harmonisation of all existing and future common legislation with the constitution and international standards, in particular the body of international rules protecting human rights, is a matter of vital importance. the constitution must also be applied in a way that ensures full control of all branches of government and the state action of political power, without undemocratic interference, and citizens have the right to be tried in all cases by political courts. the european union has followed the conduct of the referendum and, although it is impossible to ascertain the legitimacy of all the irregularities reported, we nevertheless consider that they have not affected the substance of the final result. we welcome the announcement of the elections. the union has been invited to observe the forthcoming elections and will send a significant number of election observers, led by a member of the european parliament. we will have the opportunity and the means to assess whether the conditions will allow for transparent and credible elections, without exclusion, on a level playing field during the election campaign. we will also be able to assess the conduct of the elections. it is clear that, for the sake of egypt's stability, these elections must lead to the emergence of a democratically elected president and to the fair representation of political views in parliament. the european union also calls on the egyptian authorities to ensure the right of the accused to a fair and timely trial, on the basis of a clear indictment, after an appropriate and independent investigation, and to ensure the right of access to the accused and to communicate with their lawyers and family members. the union is also concerned about the deterioration of the economic situation and its negative impact on vulnerable sections of the population. today, about half of egypt's population lives in conditions of real poverty, and the most vulnerable group are children. in this context, the european union will continue to support efforts to improve social and economic conditions, to ensure stability, to promote investment, to promote social justice and, of course, to implement the key economic reform measures. building a stable and viable democracy is a long and difficult road. building democracy requires hard work, dedication and compromise from all political sides, because the ultimate goal is to create democratic, transparent and accountable institutional structures and conditions that will protect all egyptian citizens and their fundamental rights. egypt is a key country in trying to solve all the major open problems of the middle east and north africa. it is very important for us, for europe, for our strategy, for the union's foreign policy, for the southern neighbourhood, that egypt follows a stable, democratic path, a path which will allow all egyptian citizens to have a secure and positive future.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that, as the representative of the council presidency said, if we look briefly in the rearview mirror, the sequence of events over the last three years has been impressive: the fall of president mubarak, the preparation of a new constitution, approval by referendum, the election of a new president, legislative elections, the fall of president morsi, a new constitution approved by referendum and, on the horizon, presidential and legislative elections. all this, mr president, in the midst of a breakdown in basic consensus, with a high degree of polarization in the country, with profound instability and violence and also, as the representative of the presidency-in-office of the council said, with a significant deterioration in the economic and social conditions of the country. mr president, egypt is a positive and active partner of the european union. it is a great country whose stability is fundamental to the situation in the region and the whole of the middle east, and the european union must make a firm and determined commitment to stability, supporting an inclusive democratic transition process, supporting respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, supporting the introduction of greater security in the country - and we follow with great concern the developments which are taking place in the sinai peninsula caused by radical islamists - and also, mr president, clearly and decisively committing to prosperity. we hope, mr president, that the high representative, who has already worked extraordinarily hard in support of this transition process in egypt, and the presidency of the council, which is very sensitive to the situation in egypt, will soon be able to achieve the results we all hope for.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, the situation in egypt is indeed exceptional. egyptians are living in an exceptional situation and will continue to do so as long as the armed forces remain committed to protecting the demands for social change that were expressed in the tahrir square revolution. by the way, armed forces that are still funded by the united states of america. i think it's a mistake. a mistake that increases repression; prisons are full. the banning of the muslim brotherhood party was another mistake. my group has nothing to do with that party. i mean, nothing. we have nothing to do with each other. but, nevertheless, to try to solve a political problem by outlawing a party which represented half the opinion of a country seems to me a tremendous mistake, which at some point will have to be corrected. and perhaps the closest way of correcting this is to call for legislative elections to be held as soon as possible. but with guarantees. with guarantees of cleanliness and participation. this is the only thing that might solve the situation.
madam president, egypt is an important country in our mediterranean neighbourhood which has traditionally played a very prominent role in the arab world. what happens there is not indifferent to the region. i believe that the message that egypt today must receive from this parliament is the need for dialogue and for the search for consensus between the egyptian authorities and the various political and social forces. political transitions are very complex and require high doses of flexibility and a broad spirit of commitment. exactly what the previous president morsi and the muslim brotherhood ignored. now, the new leaders of the country cannot fall into the same mistake as their predecessors. i believe that agreements are indispensable if egypt is to take the path of reconciliation, inclusive democracy and peace. the stability we all want for egypt also requires forms of democratic coexistence which respect human rights. the horizon cannot be the terrible process of confrontation and pain that algeria experienced in the 1990s. the recent example of tunisia, where the various actors have finally made concessions in order to reach an agreement on coexistence, can be a valid reference.
madam president, i am glad that the eu-russia summit has taken place. despite the differences, the european union cannot ignore such a relevant neighbour with whom it has such close economic, commercial and energy relations, although not without problems. russia is also a relevant global player. one outcome of the summit was the setting up of a working group on the association agreements proposed by the european union in the framework of the eastern partnership and the customs union promoted by russia. but talking about these neighbouring countries cannot be a dialogue about anachronistic spheres of influence. firstly, it is a question of respecting the sovereignty of those countries. we cannot create new divisions on the continent. i hope that in the coming months there will be some progress in the negotiation of the new bilateral association agreement, although at least the summit has served to strengthen our cooperation in the field of counter-terrorism. ladies and gentlemen, in the long term the european union's relationship with russia should be a genuine partnership. in the global, multipolar and rising world of asian countries, russia should find ample grounds for cooperation with the european union and also with the transatlantic partners on the basis of common values and objectives, but i fear that we are still very far from that future which should be a reason for us to unite.
member of the commission. - madam president, i was just thinking how it would look if i attempted to operationalise what i have just heard. however, i will begin by addressing two important points that the honourable members have raised. the first concerns the working group on which the leaders agreed during the summit, creating a bilateral group to look at the effects of association agreements/deep and comprehensive free trade agreements (dcftas) on russian economic and trade interests. let me make a couple of points. firstly, this is definitely not a case of talking to the russians over the heads of our partners – about them, without them. it is not about that. this is a general discussion; it is not a discussion about a specific association with a specific partner country. what we intend to discuss are the russian concerns that have been expressed, which i can summarise briefly. the first is that, as a result of an association agreement/dcfta, eu products would flood the markets of a partner country and that the partner country, having a free trade agreement with russia and the customs union, would start to flood the market of the russian federation and the customs union. the second concern referred to by the russian representatives is a scenario in which, allegedly, we would use our partner’s market to re-export eu products to the russian market and that of the customs union. our expert will be ready to tackle and explain these issues in the context of bilateral relationships. let me also make it absolutely clear that we have informed our partners about the summit and we will keep them informed about the general consultations. concerning european union pork exports to russia, let me also make it clear that we took action to talk to russian veterinarians and called for an urgent meeting this week. you might have seen the statement by my colleague, health commissioner borg, last friday. the irony is that the african swine fever originated in non-eu territory. it developed in belarus before spreading to lithuania. we took measures to locate the disease precisely in certain regions of lithuania. we applied so-called regionalisation in accordance with the respective wto sanitary and phytosanitary (sps) rules. however, russia took a decision to ban pork not only from that region but also from the whole european union. this is clearly disproportionate, with huge consequences for our industry: pork accounts for 25% of our total export volume. if no solution is found, then we will call for wto consultation. it remains to be seen what lessons russia will draw now, both from events in ukraine and from the european union’s clear stance expressed at this summit. we insist that cooperation should be built on the principle of respect for everyone’s sovereign decisions, and for democratic societies and open economies. russia has a strong interest in cooperation with the european union. russia needs european union investment and technology, and the european union remains interested in supporting russia’s modernisation. we have a strong interest in a modern, successful, and democratic russia. both our european union-russia partnership for modernisation, and the eastern partnership can make important contributions in this regard. the summit discussed our joint vision for a common economic space from lisbon to vladivostok. the european union made it clear that it would be premature to start negotiations on this now. what we need first is a new agreement between the eu and russia, better compliance with wto rules and other important commitments, and constructive cooperation in our common neighbourhood. only on this basis will the european union be ready to go further and develop a strong and deep partnership with russia. this should be a partnership based on mutual trust and on respect for bilateral and international commitments.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, i listened carefully to the very important speeches by the honourable members of the european parliament and i must stress that i respect and we respect as the presidency absolutely all sensitivities, national, historical, geographical, but also ideological sensitivities. it was a very constructive and helpful discussion following the experience of the recent summit, which the commissioner, mr füle, and i have described to you. we as the presidency agree with all those who believe that as the european union we have only one option, namely to establish constructive relations with russia. russia is neither an easy nor a simple partner, but a necessary and crucial partner. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we would be completely unhistorical if we let things develop into polemical or divisive situations. this would be contrary to the interests of both europe and russia. the improvement of relations between europe and russia will bring many benefits. it's not just trade and investment; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the obstacles to trade must therefore be removed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade is not distorted. there's a mutual investment opportunity. we must make use of all this, since the great european project is growth and job creation. but there are also political issues. we cannot have a discussion on the summit and the eu-russia partnership and forget what we have said in previous debates, including today in the european parliament's plenary, about how crucial and necessary cooperation between the european union and russia is for developments in syria, for developments in iran and for reaching a final agreement on the control of the nuclear programme. it is obvious that when we deal with the european union-russia partnership we take into account how the relationship between the united states of america and russia is developing. when we talk about the european union-russia relationship, we certainly take into account how the nato-russia relationship and the nato-russia council are developing. to make use of an observation made earlier by mrs giannaku: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have often had the impression that the european union's policy towards russia is many times smaller than the sum of the political relations that individual member states have bilaterally with russia. we need a european added value, something more than the sum of bilateral relations with russia, and this is clear in many areas; i think the most prominent example is the energy sector. we have had the opportunity to discuss this matter in greater detail in the committee on foreign affairs, in the afet. we have before us certain tools that we must take advantage of: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the agreement to include the countries of central and eastern europe, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. there is always the question of visa facilitation, particularly for tourist destinations in europe, and finally visa liberalisation as soon as conditions permit. we must make progress on these issues, always bearing in mind the strategic framework of our relations. we must devote many hours of discussion in both the council and parliament to the strategic framework and the balances, and i believe that this discussion has already helped a great deal to record extremely useful points which i have noted down to convey to the council, which will very shortly be discussing again european union-russia relations.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on an alleged forced return operation off the greek coast (farmakonisi) resulting in the death of refugees (2014/2549(rsp)).
member of the commission. - we are, of course, aware of the pressure that greece is facing. that is why, as i said in my introduction, we are trying to help greece as much as possible, providing technical help, practical help, human resources help, and also a considerable amount of financial help to build up a system of migration, of asylum and of border control that is in line with international norms and european laws and standards. the tragedy that we are discussing today took place in farmakonisi. many of you also mentioned the one in lampedusa a few months ago: i was there; i saw the coffins. this is something that is not worthy of the european union. but it happens every day – on a smaller scale fortunately, but it happens every day. when i speak to survivors from lampedusa and from other incidents, they say that they know that the risk of drowning in the mediterranean is probably around 16% or 17%. yet they still take the risk. why? because they are so desperate, and they embark on these boats because there are no legal ways to get to europe. that is why we need to find legal ways for these people to arrive safely in europe – in all 28 member states, and not only ten like today. all 28 countries should take the responsibility to at least open up a little bit for the most vulnerable. it could be done via resettlement or other ways. we are looking at possible ways in the post-stockholm programme that we can propose to member states. we of course also need to cooperate with third countries. someone mentioned turkey: yes, i was there just before christmas and i signed, together with the turkish minister, the readmission agreement which we hope will enter into force as soon as possible. we are also extending our cooperation with other countries such as tunisia and morocco – we should also do this with egypt and libya, but it is very difficult because it is not easy to engage in discussions with these countries at the moment – to fight the smugglers’ network and to involve them in building a credible migration policy where they can also take responsibility. we are also working on a larger-scale frontex search-and-rescue operation. since the beginning of the year, we have had the eurosur operation up and running, which allows us to see these very small vessels and hopefully save more lives. yes, we need more solidarity in europe, but we also need more responsibility. these things go hand in hand, and the policy that we are pursuing must be in full line with human rights and allow for people who do arrive at a border to seek asylum. to seek asylum is not a crime, it is not illegal. it is something that is protected by the geneva convention in all european law. the political climate today is not very welcoming, but if we cannot stand up for the most vulnerable people in our neighbourhood, then the european union does not have much to brag about. on to today’s topic of the incident and the horrible deaths in farmakonisi: yes, it is a great tragedy. the allegations made against greece are very serious, and i look forward to seeing this swift and impartial investigation which will shed full light on what happened that very stormy night.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, i would like to say that in my long parliamentary career i have unfortunately been involved on several occasions in debates in the national parliament where questions of life and death, human tragedies, have been the subject of political exploitation with great ease. i would ask you to acknowledge my shared sensitivity to these issues, to respect for human dignity and to react spontaneously emotionally and morally to any act which results in the death of innocent people, especially the death of young children. you don't want the greek government to prejudge the outcome of the investigation, and it doesn't. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we trust in independent investigations, and in particular in prosecutorial investigations, that is, judicial investigations, because in greece the public prosecutor's office is subordinate to the judiciary, and is composed of independent judges for life who have no contact with the executive. all incidents will be investigated and the law will be strictly enforced. i would also like to stress that the government, through the council of the european union, is expressing itself here through what i have had the honour to say to you. what i have said to you overshadows the statements made by other colleagues in the previous days. in addition, a few days after the tragic incident in pharmakonisi, on 24 january, mrs malmström had the opportunity to work in athens with both mr dendya and mr varvicciotis, the ministers for public order and shipping. the commissioner has a full picture of their view. yes, we cannot, indeed, categorize refugees, migrants, asylum seekers into different quality categories because we cannot categorize any human being. human value is always the same. it is the basic principle of the equality of every human being, because of his nature as a human being, and this of course also applies to migrants and refugees, to all of us. mr varvitsiotis, the greek minister for shipping, has already sent a letter to the council of europe's commissioner for human rights, stating that the greek authorities are at the disposal of the council of europe and are fully prepared to cooperate with it. i met this morning with the secretary-general of the council of europe and we discussed, on a practical and concrete basis, the ways in which this debate and cooperation can and should be organised, with full respect for the powers and sensitivities of the commissioner. the commission has already made a very important distinction at the beginning of its statement. it distinguished between border control operations and search and rescue operations and described the farmaconesi incident as a search and rescue operation governed by well-known rules of either the chicago convention or the hamburg convention. we have been very much involved in greece in search and rescue matters, both for humanitarian reasons and for reasons of protecting national sovereignty and national sovereign rights. i fully agree that no return can take place except in accordance with the procedures laid down in the readmission agreements. on the other hand, the truth is that if the european union, through the commission and frontex, does not intervene effectively at those points of departure where ships are leaving, where human suffering is being exploited to make a lot of money for organized gangs, we are not going to succeed. the ideal would indeed be to be able to consider asylum applications on the shores from which these ships depart, which do not respect the people they carry and put them in dramatic and deadly danger. the european union could indeed deploy missions to the coasts of turkey, libya and egypt to carry out this inspection. and indeed, if we want to create a new generation of mechanisms, we need to see these mechanisms working, not at european borders, but across borders, whether sea or land. this is a discussion we need to have if we want a comprehensive policy for managing migration flows. otherwise we will remain victims of the profound inequality that exists between the countries of the south, the mediterranean countries, the countries on the external borders of the european union, the countries with thousands of kilometres of coastline and the countries that are of course in the european mainland and are not subject to such pressures. we talk too often about solidarity, about fair and proportionate burden sharing, but the pressures are completely different and completely unequal. i believe that we all express ourselves honestly, frankly and, in this respect, discussion helps a great deal to put things in order, in a spirit of respect for human life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i must therefore also confess that i have assumed and bear, during my political life, many political responsibilities, even for the presence of distinguished colleagues in this chamber.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the statements by the council and the commission on: the 2013 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina (2013/2884(rsp) the 2013 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (2013/2883(rsp) the 2013 progress report on montenegro (2013/2882(rsp)). would you like to intervene, mr stier?
mr stier, we take note of your speech and welcome these students who will be, we hope, soon, citizens of the european union.
member of the commission. - mr president, it might not be a very wise decision, but as my closing remarks were to be five minutes long, i will now put aside my notes, make these available to you, and comment on the three countries in a ‘tweet’ way. bosnia herzegovina: we still have time to address the sejdić and finci ruling. members must not think – if this issue is not addressed – that after the next parliamentary elections the legitimacy of the politicians elected will be in question, so it would be easier to address this and other questions now. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia: more could and should be done to build trust between athens and skopje. as for the political dimension, which is missing in negotiations, i believe it should be reinserted. let us use the opportunity already offered by the commission in the progress report 2012 to address the name issue during the first stage of the accession process. because how many times will such an opportunity be there, without incurring the consequences of missing it? finally, montenegro: what do we mean when we talk about the track record in chapters 23 and 24? it is about more than just implementation; it is about changing the way of thinking. so when i am talking in coded language, saying that addressing chapters 23 and 24 should bring changes on the ground, what exactly do i mean? what is it about? it is about changing the relationship between the state and citizens; the state is there for the citizen and should be for the citizen, and not the other way round; it is about the leaders working first of all for their country and citizens; and third, it is about considering attacks on journalists as attacks on a very important pillar of democracy.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, i thanked the three rapporteurs on behalf of the european parliament for their opening remarks. i would now like to thank commissioner füle for his work, for his dedication to this cause, to the enlargement of the european union and to the prospect of the accession of the western balkan countries. we have a very close cooperation and he knows very well that in the coming days i will be visiting all six capitals of the region in my capacity as president of the council and of course i will also be visiting skopje, because it is an opportunity now, during the six months of the greek presidency, to have a discussion on the spot on issues which concern the common european and, if i may say so, euro-atlantic future of the region. i will not mention bosnia-herzegovina and montenegro, the commissioner, mr füle, has already done so in a very brief but very precise way. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i have heard many honourable members of this house make the claim that there is a bilateral difference between the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and greece in relation to the name and that this bilateral backlog is hindering the accession process of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. that description is completely wrong. the name issue is not a bilateral dispute - as mr houdis said very characteristically earlier - it is an international pending issue. the dialogue, the negotiation, the mediation initiative of the secretary-general and his special representative, mr nimitz, are the result of two decisions of the united nations security council, and a basic principle governing the functioning of the european union, a key element of the european acquis and the european legal order, is respect for the decisions of the united nations security council. it is not the name issue that is the obstacle to speeding up the process and opening accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the problem is the fulfilment and respect of the general criteria which all the candidate countries must meet, and what applies to all the candidate countries also applies to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. behind the name there is a question of respect for international law. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region. if we were to assume that the name issue would be solved tomorrow by magic, it would not mean that we have suddenly solved all the problems relating to the criteria for membership. you have heard mr kovatchev and mr stoyanov. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the issue is therefore nothing more than what is contained in the council conclusions of 19 december 2013. it explicitly states and underlines that tangible steps must be taken towards the implementation of the agreement of 1 march 2013. it is clear that concrete steps must be taken towards good neighbourly relations. that's what we want. and the paradox is - you will allow me to say here - that greece is perhaps the friendliest country in the region to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. we are still the number one foreign direct investor in this country. greece is a favourite tourist destination for its citizens. the port of thessaloniki is the natural gateway of this country to the mediterranean, so we have the conditions for a very good and extensive cooperation, but of course, in order to give the impetus we want, the causes of the problem concerning the criterion of good neighbourly relations must be removed. i've already spoken to my counterpart several times. i have spoken to the leaders of other political parties. i attach great importance to my visit to skopje in a few days. i think we'll have a clearer picture, but i want to make it absolutely clear that this is not a superficial approach that involves an obsession or a stereotype, the name. there is a problem which we must look at in its historical dimension, in its institutional dimension and of course look at it on the basis of this criterion which i have just mentioned, namely what each candidate country must fulfil as a condition for joining the european union. i hope that the honourable members who have had a different view of the facts and history of the matter will now take note of my remarks. we can distinguish very clearly between the tasks of the presidency of the council and our national sensitivities and priorities. at national level we are participating in the nimitz initiative in a constructive way by making a modest compromise proposal for a complex name with geographical identification, but one name for each use, a matter i have already mentioned. as the presidency of the council, with complete calm and objectivity, as we do in general for enlargement policy and for neighbourhood policies, we will respect and implement the council conclusions of 19 december 2013.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, in december 2012 the united nations general assembly adopted a resolution on intensifying efforts to end female genital mutilation (fgm). the resolution calls for the development of a comprehensive strategy aimed at eliminating the practice. in europe, the european parliament estimates that half a million women – the equivalent of the population of malta – live with the consequences of the practice and another 180 000 are at risk every year. these estimates show how important it is for the eu to play its part in ending the practice. in that respect the commission action plan represents a key element of the european response to the calls and commitments made in the un resolution. the role of the european parliament will be to monitor progress on the implementation of the action plan to eliminate fgm. the action plan promotes a comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach. it reflects international human rights standards and insists on the need to focus on prevention. prevention of fgm means working for, and with, affected communities and in particular with young people. it means working on gender stereotypes and seeking to identify and overcome barriers to ending fgm within each community. prevention also means training professionals who are likely to be in contact with affected women and girls. but prevention does not mean prosecution. we need to move away from the criminalisation approach. there is to date no evidence and no research to prove the deterrent effect of prosecution on the perpetuation of the practice. yes, there is a need for legislation on fgm. there is a need for child protection measures and laws which acknowledge that fgm is an act that affects society as a whole. however, there is also a need to analyse the impact of prosecution on the female child. judicial procedures, prison sentences, large fines or long separations from the parental family may have a serious impact on the child’s well-being. it is crucial not to confuse prevention and prosecution and not to confuse understanding and fear. if we aim for long-term prevention, we first need to work on changing the belief systems and social norms of those affected by fgm. working towards ending fgm is therefore a long-term goal which requires long-term vision. communities need to be involved in the development of such a vision and we need data, in particular on prevalence, in order to monitor and evaluate the impact of existing measures and develop relevant policy responses. as meps, we should commit to supporting those who are already working to end the practice, and i am very glad to see that the resolution we have adopted today will support the work of fgm campaigners in europe. those of us standing again in the forthcoming election campaign are seeking to be in the house over the next five years. already, however, we can show determination and continue fighting to prevent fgm by signing the pledge that the end fgm european campaign has put at our disposal.
madam president, i will not repeat the definition of 'female genital mutilation' given by the world health organisation, but i would recommend that those who do not consider it urgent to put a stop to this physical and psychological suffering of women should find out what it is exactly. it's the partial or total resection of the clitoris. do you not think, ladies and gentlemen, that we must act with diligence? 140 million girls and women worldwide have suffered this form of violence, which targets girls from infancy to adolescence. this brutal practice is not confined to third countries, but affects girls living in the european union, reaching the alarming figure of 500 000 who have already been subjected to it and many more who are at risk of being subjected to it. we know that female genital mutilation is carried out in unhygienic conditions, which in many cases has irreparable consequences for the health of the girl. the protection of the rights of the child, already enshrined in law in our member states and at international level, obliges us not to tolerate this practice, which is not justified by any cultural tradition. in this parliament several resolutions have been adopted to combat female genital mutilation. in the framework of the directive on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, for which i was rapporteur, i asked that this offence be punishable in all 28 member states. my country, spain, has a specific criminal law, but there is no uniformity in this respect in the european union. we need a common approach, with shared data. the european external action service must take a firm stand against third countries which do not condemn this form of violence against women. i believe that there are many victims who have no voice and we have an obligation to lend them our voice to eradicate this form of violence that goes against human rights in the 21st century.
madam president, female genital mutilation is a form of violence against women and girls and therefore a clear violation of fundamental human rights. it was necessary for this parliament to speak out against this. we talked about data. 140 million girls and women in the world, 500,000 in europe. there are studies that say that about 17,000 girls in my country, in spain, are at risk of female genital mutilation. we must therefore welcome the european commission's strategy and understand that we must move from mere words to action, with the need to promote different strategies to prevent and eradicate a brutal form of violence against women. the importance of training for medical professionals and the educational field needs to be stressed. cooperation between public institutions and civil society organisations is essential to achieve the goal of ending this brutal practice of violence, which has no place in the 21st century. because if anyone tries to justify this practice under some pretext, let us be very clear that respect for traditions and cultures has, as an insurmountable limit, respect for human rights.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs elisa ferreira, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, for the tone and content of the debate which took place on the presentation of our position in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and today by the group leaders. now i think we're moving on to the next phase... (the president interrupts the speaker for problems of interpretation) well, as our committee chair, sharon bowles, has said, the tripartite dialogues have so far produced no results and therefore we are faced with the votes that must be taken in parliament. i ask you to vote first of all for parliament to assume its responsibilities as a co-legislator. secondly, to ensure that the legislation contains all the essential elements and, furthermore, that we do so in a clear and robust way. the banking union must be part of the european union, it is a community project. we need a single mechanism that can act quickly. we need a single fund that works from the start and has financial possibilities, and we need to do this by calling on the council to act, to give the greek presidency a negotiating mandate, because parliament's wish is to reach an agreement at first reading, but an ambitious and substantial agreement. and that is why we think that parliament will have to speak now and call on the council, because it is now the council that will have to respond.
mr president, i address the house on behalf of elisa ferreira. after speaking to the rapporteurs from the various groups, after hearing the position of the chairman of our committee and after hearing the conference of presidents, we do ask, in accordance with rule 57 (2), that the vote on the draft legislative resolution be postponed because we want to see an agreement reached, if possible, at first reading with the council. we therefore ask the council to listen to the outcome of this vote, to hope that it is clear and robust, to act and to respond to the letter that the president of parliament will send to it, as he has announced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contains a proposal for legislation which substantially improves the rights of passengers vis-à-vis the airlines that carry them. the report contains a number of improvements to passengers' rights: for example, it increases the maximum time for which they are entitled to receive financial compensation, it requires two weeks' notice of any change in flight, it develops passengers' rights in the event of a delay of more than two hours, etc. in short, it is a bet that passengers can demand that airlines respect their rights. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - respect for the rights of citizens, both consumers and passengers, is an essential objective of the european union and, in the specific case of passengers, a basic requirement for the completion of the single market. air traffic is essential for the free movement of persons and must therefore be conducted under fair and favourable conditions for passengers. they are usually not fully informed about their rights when flying and enforcing these rights is quite confusing and costly. it is therefore urgent to strengthen these rights and to coordinate the implementation of state measures in this area, as this is a transnational issue affecting all passengers flying both nationally and at european and international level. the european parliament voted in favour of this commission proposal, which includes the formal establishment of rights to compensation for long delays, denied boarding and cancellation of flights, as well as rights to relocation and changes of route for extraordinary reasons 'specifically listed' or the right to information, among others.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, although i would like to point out that the final result is insufficient and unambitious. i understand that a compromise had to be reached between the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy at the european parliament level with a view to reaching an agreement, but i am critical that the european commission has preferred to devalue the previously agreed objectives because of the right-wing climate conservatism that rules in the community institutions and is causing the eu to lose its global leadership in the fight against climate change. i would also like to point out that the implications of this lack of ambition are increasing natural disasters, which should make us all reflect and try again to lead the way in reducing emissions, especially by promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency. this requires that all the measures we take are binding on the member states, which is the only way to ensure compliance.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the final text of the report makes a clear call to the states and the commission to develop effective and ambitious policies in the area of renewable energy, energy efficiency and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the 2030 objectives.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it implies acceptance of the utter failure and lack of political will to tackle the main problem which will affect all the countries of the world in the coming years. this report reflects that failure in that, despite referring to climate and energy-related policies, it makes a central reference to the economy and competitiveness, the ultimate cause of the environmental problems that global warming is causing all over the planet. the report calls for the eu to act at international level in this area, when the governments of the member states of the same parties that have presented this report block and prevent any kind of global and binding agreement. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - in favour. the european parliament has today sent a clear signal to eu governments: binding 2030 targets for renewables, energy efficiency and greenhouse gases are an essential bedrock for any eu policy. coming just weeks after the weak proposals from the european commission, today’s vote should reorient the debate and give eu governments a mandate to take the right decision when they consider the 2030 roadmap at their march summit. the eu should not repeat the mistake made with the lack of ambition in its 2020 greenhouse gas reduction target as this has undermined the effectiveness of overall climate policy and key instruments like the emissions trading scheme. to this end, we should be aiming for a 60% reduction by 2030, which various scenarios have made clear is possible with ambitious policies on energy efficiency and renewable energy. unfortunately, meps today voted to endorse the weak 40% target proposed by the commission. 2030 is the next crucial milestone for european climate and energy policy and it is important that the fossil fuel and nuclear lobbies understand that our energy future lies with renewables and efficiency.
in writing. - today, to my great regret, the european parliament in plenary has approved binding energy targets for 2030 which call for a 40% reduction in co2 emissions, 30% renewable energy and 40% improvement in energy efficiency. i am personally in favour of collective efforts and convergence towards a more sustainable energy model, although i can say that i differ from the position of this report on the way to achieve this. the setting of such strict eu energy targets does not take into account the economic, technological and industrial context of each member state, each with different needs and potentials, and causes unnecessary distortions in terms of competitiveness and efficiency. i therefore believe that an interim agreement with more flexible binding objectives and complementary coherent support policies would have been the most appropriate solution.
in writing. today, the european parliament reiterated its willingness to consider the future bank resolution mechanism as a european entity, not as an intergovernmental construct. it thus clearly expresses its opposition to the council's current position, which distorts the initial draft in several respects. first, it aims to give the largest member states a power of veto in the decision-making process. furthermore, the council complicates the process in such a way that a quick decision is made virtually impossible. finally, on the fallacious pretext of an inappropriate legal basis, the council has allowed itself to withhold from parliament's codecision a significant part of the text covering the operation of the resolution fund. a near-coup d'etat against the government. the vote in plenary shows that parliament is determined not to give in to the council's blackmail. the negotiations have not made a single step forward since december, with the council refusing to make any concessions on the main points under discussion. in this way he is openly playing the clock, hoping that, as the end of the parliamentary term approaches, parliament will finally give in in the open.
in writing. - the compulsory indication of the country of origin on the label of fresh, chilled and frozen meat, as regards the place of birth, rearing and slaughter of the animal, is a matter of great importance to us. in order to meet consumer expectations in terms of quality, action is needed on traceability, animal welfare and environmental impact standards for meat products. providing information on the origin of meat is of paramount importance in order to enable consumers to obtain a complete and up-to-date picture of what they buy and put on their tables.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a commitment to improving the information available to european consumers, who will be able to make informed decisions on the basis of the place of origin of the meat they consume. at present, information and traceability systems are not sufficient to ensure that the european consumer is well informed when consuming fresh, chilled or frozen meat. to enable responsible, environmentally efficient and spatially linked consumption, an information system is needed to enable consumers to make well-informed choices. it is for all these reasons that i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. until now, only beef was labelled with the animal's origin. we are asking for more detailed information on all types of meat (poultry, pig, sheep, goat) by labelling the place of birth, rearing and slaughter of the animal, which the commission is not proposing today. the horse meat scandal is making headlines and alarming consumers, who want to know exactly what they are eating. that is why we must strengthen the rules on meat labelling, with stricter rules on traceability. a complete and exhaustive labelling would not only allow the animal to be traced, but also the conditions under which it was slaughtered (if the country complies with animal welfare standards).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it proposes a specific control, country by country, for access to the generalized system of preferences, subjecting such access to compliance with the main international conventions on sustainable development. in this context, the european commission may decide to adopt separate delegated acts to ensure access to the system for each country, requiring a case-specific analysis in the context of the specific situation of each applicant country. this would allow for a greater impact of the implementation of the main international agreements on sustainable development. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour. regulation (eu) no 978/2012 lays down the arrangements for the union’s generalised system of preferences (gsp), which is meant to help developing countries by making it easier for them to export their products to the eu. the gsp consists of a general arrangement and two special arrangements, including the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), whereby no duties are levied on imports of more than 6 000 tariff lines from the beneficiary countries. gsp+ is designed to work as a credible incentive for those countries which earnestly want to commit themselves to implementing core international conventions that are essential in the context of sustainable development.
in writing. - in the absence of adequate global commitment, europe's objective is to lead by example by minimising and stabilising greenhouse gas concentrations and reducing emission levels. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency. there is no doubt that a reduction in gas emissions is necessary and, in this context, it is essential to set emission limits, which may be more or less stringent. i believe that these needs must be met, but also taking into account other political needs, such as maintaining and boosting the competitiveness of our industries and enterprises, which must not be penalized in the global context.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it involves a necessary revision of the determination of the volumes of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned in the period 2013-2020. the system for calculating the abovementioned emission allowances that has been applied until now was ridiculous because the limits set were so outrageously high that they did not create any incentive for the different industries to reduce emissions, since the impact of the crisis and the decline in economic activity had produced a decrease in emissions making the previously set limits on emission allowances useless. the revision of these volumes is absolutely necessary for this instrument to be able to serve to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour. i have no objections to the draft commission regulation amending regulation (eu) no 1031/2010 in particular to determine the volumes of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned in 2013-2020.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is a clear act of interference against a legitimate and democratically elected government by a resistance made up of violent and far-right groups who want a totalitarian invasion of the country to serve the fundamental economic interests of international capital. the resolution thus calls for intervention and support for far-right groups through the involvement of members of the european parliament themselves. the resolution also introduces servility to the united states and the international financial institutions as reference actors when it is known that they will act in their own interests, ignoring those of the europeans, who will bear the consequences for the neighbourhood. it is for all these reasons that i have voted against this resolution.
in writing. - in favour. since the ukrainian government’s decision to suspend the signing of the association agreement, hundreds of thousands of people have taken spontaneously to the streets all over the country in favour of the european choice. in kiev, demonstrators have been peacefully occupying independence square, calling for a strong political change with a view to making the government review its decision. over recent weeks the situation has further deteriorated, with people taking to the streets to defend democracy and civil liberties after brutal crackdowns by the berkut riot police on demonstrators, human rights activists and journalists. despite the international pressure the policy of intimidation, repression and violence against protesters has not stopped, with the result that further arrests have taken place, more than 2 000 people have been injured, many abducted and at least six killed.
in writing. - i voted against it for two reasons. firstly, the role of ethnic, cultural and religious minorities in the democratic settlement of the conflict, especially the kurdish minority, is not adequately reflected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. that amendment closes one of the possible paths to a solution, namely the creation of more than one state, provided that it is done in a democratic way.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, although it contains many points calling for the protection of victims and refugees, it calls for military intervention, blaming the syrian government in the first place and hypocritically showing its concern about the increase in jihadist terrorists which the eu itself has been supporting from the beginning. i cannot vote against it either because we share the concern about the situation of thousands of victims and refugees who are suffering the consequences of a conflict caused by the interference of foreign powers in the area. that is why i abstained despite sharing the concern for the syrian people.
in writing. - in favour. three years into the syrian conflict, the dramatic human rights, humanitarian and security situation continues to deteriorate. syrian government troops continue to use brutal force against civilian populations. to a lesser extent, violations of human rights and humanitarian law by opposition forces are also being reported. religious extremism and sectarian violence are on the increase, and radical islamist groups, including eu nationals, are now reported to have reached significant numbers. the military confrontation appears to have reached a stalemate whereby no warring party seems to be about to collapse or capitulate.
in writing. - the situation in the middle east, which is also beginning to affect globally and beyond the borders of this country in a situation of actual civil war, is particularly worrying in relation to civilians who are suffering from the overflowing situation of extreme violence by the contenders. without going into any further evaluations, it is important that parliament evaluates the results of the peace conference known as geneva ii, and the resolution adopted must be binding, in accordance with international law and more specifically humanitarian law. this appeal must emphasize the condemnation of the excessive violence used and the search for a peaceful solution through dialogue with a view to a return to democracy in the country, taking into account all the victims who are still suffering the madness of such a situation.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, despite the concern it expresses for the situation of the egyptian people, it continues to maintain the typical interventionist line of this parliament, which is a situation caused by the very support that some member states gave to the mubarak government. the resolution contains some worrying facts which reflect and introduce the logical concern which the eu should have about the situation the egyptian people are experiencing, but the resolution does not offer alternatives, but supports the eu's continued intervention, which will only lead to a further radicalization of the conflict. it is for all these reasons that i have not been able to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - in favour. the new constitution of egypt was adopted by referendum on 14-15 january 2014 with an approval rate of 98% on a 38% turnout. the run-up to the referendum was marred by acts of violence and the harassment and arrest of activists campaigning for a ‘no’ vote. the new constitution is considered to have introduced some improvements, such as the provisions concerning economic and social rights, women’s rights, the fight against torture and the reference to international human rights instruments, which are given the force of law. it allows, however, for the possible restriction of these rights by leaving the interpretation of several of its articles to statutory law. the new text also allows for the possibility of the parliament withdrawing its confidence from the president and forcing early elections by a two-thirds majority. the presidential mandate is limited to two four-year terms, whereas the judiciary saw its autonomy enhanced in the new constitution.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because, although it raises the question of a rapprochement of the positions of the two powers, proposes an improvement in trade and economic cooperation and establishes links in the field of imperialist cooperation in the region between the two powers, it is a further proof of the double standard of the european union's international policy, which, as soon as economic and commercial interests come into play, is capable of accepting any alliance. the eu has changed its policy towards russia and here it presents a resolution clearly linked to the imperialist interests of both powers over ukraine. trying to bring their positions closer together, the two military giants are trying to divide influence in the region. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against the resolution.
in writing. - in favour. the reduced format of the eu-russia summit is an appropriate reflection of the current state of affairs in eu-russia relations, which allows for a pragmatic exchange on topical issues while also symbolising the challenges eu-russia cooperation currently faces. in this regard, as long as the conditions for the development of a genuine strategic partnership based on shared common values are not in place, eu-russia summits should be held once a year, instead of the current biannual format. the current deterioration of eu-russia relations is the result of a long process during vladimir putin’s first two terms as president and his time as influential prime minister which has continued under his current presidential term of office and is a direct consequence of his domestic and foreign policy choices. so far, the eu has been unable to convince the russian leadership of the merits of a fully-fledged democratic system, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, and that a society where the state protects and serves its citizens is the best way to secure long-term prosperity and stability.
in writing. - i could not support this resolution because, although it contains an important assessment of the political changes needed in the country, it reduces the problems to ethical ones. this assessment of bosnia and herzegovina's progress towards eu membership rightly points to the need to undertake major political reforms in the country as a matter of urgency. but reading the causes as ethnic reasons does not point to the real roots of the present problems, which stem from the economic sphere and from the neoliberal measures being implemented against the will of the people of bosnia and herzegovina. it is because of all this that, despite sharing part of the assessment, i have not been able to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - against. we disagree with the mention in several parts of the concept ‘constituent peoples’. furthermore, some of the amendments adopted undermine the legitimacy of the institutions in the 2014 elections without prior implementation of echr ruling.
in writing. - i voted in favour for one of the reasons why we were able to pass an amendment by our group which can help to unblock the conflict between the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and greece on behalf of the state. the amendment reads as follows: 'it welcomes in this connection the proposal for a compound name with a geographical indication put forward by mr nimetz, the united nations envoy, and considers it to be a good basis for a compromise, provided that the nationality, identity, culture and language of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia are not called into question.' this suggests the possibility of calling the state north macedonia, upper macedonia or a similar name that satisfies tyrians and trojans.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution because it implies that the european union is continuing to advance in the process of cooperation with the balkan republic, ignoring the international dispute that this republic has with greece over its name. regardless of the assessment made in this resolution, in the interests of respect for international law, the european union should not maintain such relations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the dispute between the republic of cyprus and greece has not yet been resolved in the international forums in which it is being dealt with and, as a consequence, the european union should respect those procedures of international law and not enter into these negotiations until they are resolved through the proper legal channels. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. - in favour. for the first time, the text welcomes the un proposal for a composite name respecting macedonian nationality, identity, culture and language.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is yet another example of the hypocrisy to which the european institutions can go in their demands directed at third countries. the recommendations made to the republic of montenegro concern the implementation of neoliberal reforms, privatisation of public companies, new laws, etc. all these demands are aimed at bringing in foreign capital to take over the country's economy and steer it towards the benefit of european companies. the report also calls for the resolution of unemployment and respect for labour rights when the recommended economic policies are in the opposite direction. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against the resolution.
in writing. - in favour. montenegro was granted candidate status in 2010. in june 2012, accession negotiations started. chapters 25 (science and research) and 26 (education and culture) have provisionally been closed. for the rule of law and justice chapters (23/24) the government has recently presented action plans. during the last presidential elections in march 2013 it became clear that the montenegrin democracy is far from being stable and that prime minister djukarnovic’s clan is still in control of almost everything. voter lists have been manipulated, as have identity cards; public funds and public resources have been used for election campaigns by djukarnovic’s party, which only got a few votes more than the opposition. the structure - in light of the political criteria chapter - of this year’s afet report also makes it clear that the most relevant problems relate to (basic) political criteria...
in writing. - female genital mutilation is a form of violence against women and girls, an unacceptable violation of the fundamental rights of the european union. the european union must therefore be firm in protecting fundamental rights and denouncing this abhorrent practice in the fight against violence against women. it is not only recorded in third countries but also affects women and girls residing in the european union, who are subjected to this brutal practice on their territory, or in their countries of origin before moving to the european union, or during their travels to this destination. the european union's commitment to increase aid to the victims and to use european funds to prevent this brutal aggression, as well as its commitment to put an end to this scourge, is therefore very positive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i fully share the concern about the practice of female genital mutilation which is also spreading in europe. the practice of female genital mutilation is a very serious practice against girls and women and is widespread in many countries. the european union must exercise its responsibility to try to prevent this practice from continuing. the resolution also points to the high number of asylum applications from women who may be mutilated and who will inevitably have to be acted upon by the member states. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - in favour. we welcome the commission communication ‘towards the elimination of female genital mutilation’, in which it undertakes to use eu funding to prevent fgm and improve support for victims, including protection for women at risk under eu asylum rules, and, together with the european external action service (eeas), to strengthen international dialogue and encourage research with a view to clearly identifying women and girls at risk. we also welcome the commission’s commitment to facilitating the exchange of experience and good practices on fgm issues between member states, ngos and experts, and its emphasis on the need to continue to closely involve civil society, including that of third countries, not only in awareness-raising campaigns but also in the development of educational material and training. furthermore, we point out that international, european and member state institutions play a vital role in the prevention of fgm, the protection of women and girls and the identification of victims and in taking measures to ban gender-based violence including fgm, and welcome the eu’s commitment to continue to take action to promote the abandonment of fgm in countries where it is practised.
in writing. - in the 21st century, and given that this unfortunate fact affects not only hundreds of millions of women in the world, mostly in developing or underdeveloped countries, but directly more than half a million, no less, within the european union, the highest representation of citizenship that this parliament is, cannot allow this practice to continue in any way. this practice must be considered as violence against women and even as an attack on children, since the highest percentage is carried out on girls and adolescents under the age of 18. there can be no such thing as an argument, not even one based on the protection of religious freedom as a fundamental right within the union, or one based on relativistic aspects of cultural diversity. it is a practice that must be fought for and eradicated globally and effectively.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it represents a firm commitment to diversifying the main lines of communication on the continent, which will promote a transport system that is more sustainable in terms of energy and the environment. the use of transport via the main inland waterways of the continent is a strategic bet that can divert part of land transport, especially freight transport, to inland waterways and connect it with the maritime transport system. the report also regrets that the commission proposal does not include any financial allocation for the development of the programme and also proposes a number of measures for the effective implementation of the programme. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, obviously the situation in thailand deserves more than a debate and a resolution from our house. that is clear. we are talking about democracy and helping to build democracy in thailand for many reasons. the situation, based on socioeconomic differences, has turned into violence, which is something which concerns us. we also need to show our solidarity with all the victims and all those people who have lost loved ones. our resolution should be based on democratic principles and that is what we will probably be adopting at the end of this debate. we have to remind ourselves – and also our thai colleagues – that elections must be free and fair. that is why we very much deplore the fact that all the reactions against the results seen in the elections are being turned into such a violent situation. we also urge the thai government to revoke the state of emergency, because we understand that this is not the way to deal with the situation, basically because laws are in place to deal with the current situation in the right way. all parties should engage in a constructive dialogue, based on tolerance and the understanding of mutual points of view. in order to seek a negotiated settlement and to solve the current crisis by peaceful and democratic means, we urge both parties – government and opposition alike – to find a normal, democratic and fair way to resolve their differences.
mr president, something unusual happened on friday: the group of international mediators who are monitoring the peace process in the basque country were called to testify before the national audience. the lehendakari was in place, accompanying them to madrid. i am asking here for the involvement of the european institutions in consolidating peace in the basque country once and for all. that peace that basque society so badly needs, and that's what they're demanding from us. let us get involved, please, as we have in other european processes and as we are in other international processes. we cannot be absent from this process in the heart of europe.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. secondly, the 'huella' parameter will be studied by the commission as a possible measurement variable, and thirdly, more real information is provided to users about the consumption and emissions of their vehicles through the new types of test. the commissioner said that the commission had not yet reached a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. in any case, i can say that we are quite satisfied with the results of this negotiation, because with this commitment we are going to encourage research and innovation in the automobile sector; we are going to promote growth and employment while we are going to be more respectful of the environment. in short, we are going to improve the competitiveness of european industry while reducing pollution and reducing expensive oil imports.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, the establishment of a european police office, and the establishment of a european police office. to achieve this legislative objective, i have organised more than 60 meetings with various stakeholders, including, i would like to stress, those with the european commission and its commissioner, with representatives of europol, with representatives of the member states, with the european data protection supervisor, with representatives of the national parliaments and, above all, a large number of meetings with my colleagues the alternative rapporteurs. we wanted to create a europol for 28 member states and we wanted to do it among all of them. and to that end we have done meticulous work together with the alternative speakers. we have made a hard effort to reach consensus, which was reflected in the vote in committee on 30 january. i would therefore like to thank in a special way mr weidenholzer, mr kirkhope, mr tavares, mrs ernst and mrs weber. i have held one-on-one meetings with the alternative rapporteurs covering the most important topics of the proposal for a regulation which we had previously selected and differentiated: the rejection of the merger between ecpol and europol; the general provisions, definitions and objectives; the governance of europol; parliamentary control; the strengthening of the role of the national units; and the reinforcement of a more effective and secure data protection system. as a result of these meetings, we agreed on 32 commitments, of which i would like to highlight the rejection of the merger between europol and ecpol, because their objectives and tasks are very different in the area of freedom, security and justice. i would also like to inform you that this matter is supported by only one political group in this house. the creation of a mechanism for monitoring europol's activities by the representatives democratically elected by the citizens of the union, i.e. the european parliament together with the national parliaments, and this through a structure of a joint parliamentary monitoring group, as provided for in article 88 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the establishment of a robust data protection system, thanks to which for the first time the scrutiny of data processing by europol will be carried out by an independent body - the european supervisor - which will develop it in close cooperation with the supervisory authorities of the member states and the common supervisory authority, which will ensure that the personal data of our citizens will be treated in a more guaranteed and secure way, as i have been calling for since the adoption of the council decision. i would also like to stress that the real point of this report is to make europol's role as a support and reinforcement of the police authorities of the member states in the fight against crime ever more effective and efficient. as you know, the activities of organised crime networks are becoming increasingly complex and diverse. (mr president, if you please, i can finish this comment and then deduct it from the time for replying, would that be appropriate? thank you for your understanding, mr president), i said that the activities of organized crime networks are becoming more complex, more diverse and more international. terrorists cooperate across borders to plan attacks. cybercrime continues to grow and, although the euro is a very secure currency, its counterfeiting has caused at least €500 million in financial damage since its introduction. and organized crime groups aim to maximize their profits, and to do so, they commit multiple crimes, such as human trafficking, drug and firearm trafficking, fraud, or cybercrime. and despite the efforts of national services across the union, successes do not come by acting in isolation. a community regulation is therefore necessary.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, thank you for this most useful debate. as i said in my introduction, i believe that many of your amendments provide for improvements of the proposal. i will not mention them all but i am glad to see that the commission is in a position to accept around half of those tabled and i am sure we can find a solution for the rest. the challenge that we, you and the council are all facing, of course, is to shape europol’s reform in a way that the highest protection of fundamental rights is upheld, whilst equipping the agency with the means to fulfil its mandate effectively, which is to protect european citizens. i think we are on a good track here. as you know, the commission expressed its view on the merger. we think that would have been a rationalisation, an operational improvement. i am sorry we did not manage to convince either parliament or the council on this. as a second option we would also favour co-location for cepol and europol in the hague because that would mean some savings: shared services but still maintaining the two agencies. i am sure we can come back to this. anyway, i am sure that together with the european parliament and the council, with a little bit more effort at the beginning of autumn, we can arrive at a conclusion to close this very important file. thank you very much again to mr díaz de mera who has made a very important contribution to this in the first reading.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and no, you're not going to the hague! he's not going to the hague because we're against the merger, as you'll see tomorrow. for the representatives of the committee on budgets and the committee on constitutional affairs: i have taken the trouble to note your concern, madam president, and the conclusion i have reached is that the merger would make europol more administrative and less operational, much less. so if you cross competencies, you get interference. no, we can't be in favor of the merger, as we'll see tomorrow. i would also like to thank all members for their support, which was expressly expressed, and also for their disagreements. even the efd has said that it will vote against the report, but that it is also against the merger. and finally, mr president, the police state is a real barbarity, a boutade. that comment is volatile, it is untenable, and it is absent from the consciousness of this house, as are those who produced this outrage.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to start by most sincerely thanking parliament, and ms[nbsp ]striffler personally, for your continuous and strong support for the creation of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. this support reflects the views of european citizens, whom you all represent. according to eurobarometer, 88[nbsp ]% of europeans are in favour of the creation of eu aid volunteers and look forward to seeing them established and in action. with the active engagement of parliament, the commission and the council we are now coming to the final stage of making their wish happen. as a result, by 2020 nearly 20[nbsp ]000 europeans will have taken part in activities benefiting people in need – and, as ms[nbsp ]striffler said, the numbers of such people are unfortunately growing – but also benefiting the volunteers themselves by helping them gain new skills and new experience. at this time of tight budgets we have worked hard to make sure that we provide value for money, that the eu aid volunteers complement existing schemes, and that this also helps the volunteers to advance their own development. most of them are young people and for them volunteering is also a way to become more competitive on tighter labour markets. we have carried out three rounds of pilot projects in which over 40 humanitarian organisations took part, providing valuable insights into what exactly is needed in standard setting, in training and in deployment for the programme to achieve its main goal: to be a platform where europeans live out our values, where they offer a helping hand to those who desperately need it. we have witnessed the enthusiasm and dedication of those who have taken part in these pilot projects: over 250 people ranging from the young to the young in spirit – the youngest volunteer at 21, the young in spirit but more mature at 70. i can tell you that meeting these people makes me enormously proud to be the european commissioner for humanitarian aid because what we are demonstrating is that it is not by chance that europe is a global leader in this field. to be specific concerning parliamentʼs contributions, let me just highlight a few of them: parliament has placed promoting active european citizenship among the initiativeʼs objectives and also measures on communications and visibility that would support this objective and make it happen. parliament has reinforced security of the volunteers as a priority, and on that basis we have excluded deploying eu aid volunteers in theatres of armed conflict. we have placed the emphasis instead on volunteer work in disaster risk reduction and resilience, linking relief to rehabilitation and development. these are entirely aligned with eu priorities but are also fields where there is a shortage of skills in humanitarian organisations. last but not least, parliament has promoted the gender dimension in cooperation with women and i can tell you that every time i go to areas affected by disasters or by conflict i often see women not just as victims but as victors, as those who are saving lives. let me finish by saying that we recognise that we are at the beginning of the process of making this initiative happen, and we look forward to working continuously with parliament in the implementation of the programme, in the adoption of delegated acts, on standards for eu aid volunteersʼ management, on the mid-term review of thematic priorities and financial allocations, as ms[nbsp ]striffler emphasised, and also on the annual report on implementation and in evaluations.
the committee on budgets' rapporteur for the opinion. - madam president, when there are six million young people under 25 unemployed in europe - by the way, almost a million of them in spain - our first priority is the fight against unemployment and youth unemployment. this initiative of a pan-european humanitarian aid volunteer mechanism is a good one, as it aims to develop the skills and employability of young people in the humanitarian field. the budget of €147.9 million is intended to train 20 000 young europeans and 7 000 local staff. this is less than the commission was asking for, which was asking for eur 210 million, as the rapporteur, mrs striffler, has pointed out, but if these funds are translated into jobs for young people, welcome! but i think we should not be healers in this area, which we all agree is good for the european union. in addition, from the point of view of the committee on budgets, the funding of this body will not be made - a second point, madam president - at the expense of humanitarian aid funds and will not compete with the ngos which will be funded to facilitate and contribute to the training of these young people. so i think we are right to be proud of this body of european volunteers.
madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating mrs striffler but also, without a doubt, commissioner georgieva, who has the full support of our socialist group - you know that very well. i am proud today of this very important step which is being taken in this parliament with the vote on this regulation. this regulation is a giant step, considering that we have been asking for its implementation since 2006 and that it was not until 2009, with the lisbon treaty, that it became mandatory. tomorrow we will take another step forward in social action in crisis situations, with what we could call the launch of an 'erasmus solidarity' programme. a programme that will give hundreds of european 'specialist staff and organisations' the opportunity to train and support them. as with all innovation, they will face many challenges, including ensuring that they are complementary to the work carried out by professionals and military personnel on the ground. to make visible the added value of the work of volunteers, especially by strengthening the link between assistance, rehabilitation and development. but the advantages are even greater. it will allow europeans to express their commitment to our core values of solidarity and respect for human rights, and will create a more cohesive and engaged european society. in short, it will be one more tool to get you where you need to go. a tool that gives impetus to another europe. a more united europe, madam commissioner.
madam president, commissioner, the international commission for the verification of the eta ceasefire announced last friday that the armed organisation had put part of its arsenal out of action in its presence. he also announced that eta had committed itself to complete total disarmament within a year. i consider this to be very good news and an important step forward in the peace process in the basque country. unfortunately, the spanish government's reaction to the gesture has been disappointing. the minister of the interior has dismissed the work of the international verification commission and the national court has called for the verifiers to testify. the french minister of the interior, on the other hand, went further and declared: 'we are not in a peace process, we are in a fight against terrorism'. today, once again, i call on the european institutions to take an active part in the basque peace process. the union cannot stand idly by in the face of the immobilizing and blocking attitude of the spanish and french governments. if the union's fundamental objectives include the safeguarding of peace in europe, there is no excuse for the union not to be actively involved in the settlement of the basque conflict and to contribute to the orderly conclusion of the last armed conflict in europe, and the sooner the better.
mr president, i am writing to the european commission to ask it to urge the spanish government to stop the oil exploration that is being carried out or is being planned on our coasts. neither the canaries, nor the balearic islands, nor the valencian community can afford to risk their present or ruin their future. we just ask that we be allowed to work and live with our own and our own. we want to continue to enjoy our sun, our beaches, our fishing, our fishermen and the tourism that has helped us so much to endure the crisis. we want renewable energy to be promoted, which is what the spanish government is not doing. we simply want - and we don't ask for much - to be left with our entrepreneurial economy, with our biodiversity, and not to try to impose on us a bad copy of an arab emirates that we don't aspire to. we don't want present wealth poisoned with future ruin. we just want to live in peace - we don't ask for much - with a healthy and sustainable environment, with an entrepreneurial economy and without anyone wanting to get rich at the expense of our lives in the future. and that is what i ask the european commission to do: to urge the spanish government to stop the prospecting.
mr president, i would like to say first of all that what has happened in recent days in connection with the staging of a delivery of arms by eta to alleged international verifiers has undoubtedly been a sham. i absolutely disagree with my partner. there are no two sides here, nor is there a peace process; there is a gang of murderers and the rest, democrats, who are on the side of legality. what the terrorist gang needs to do is disband and hand over the weapons. i also take this opportunity to speak about oil prospects in the mediterranean. we are many who are against it, but i would like to defend the spanish government, because thanks to the current government, environmental impact reports, hearings and allegations are being prepared, unlike what the zapatero government did, which authorized prospecting in the mediterranean without environmental impact declarations, even though they had asked for them.
mr president, on 6 february last, 15 migrants drowned a few metres from the beach at tarajal in ceuta, as a result of disproportionate action and, more seriously, in breach of spanish, european and international law. the attitude of the spanish government, which has tried to conceal the use of rubber balls against people trying to reach the coast, is unacceptable. it is intolerable that intercepted migrants are returned 'hot' without being identified or checked for asylum. we therefore call on the european commission to take responsibility for this very serious violation of human rights and of the community acquis itself. we urge the commission to respond to this humanitarian tragedy and to take urgent and effective action. we call on the european union to respond to the increased migratory pressure on the southern states with a solidarity-based migration policy; to increase cooperation; to combat the human trafficking mafias; and to strengthen frontex and the alert mechanisms. in short, an immigration policy that is not exclusively a closed door.
mr president, the multinational coca cola is restructuring in spain: it is closing several factories. coca cola has made 900 million euros in the last year and after half a century of refreshing in spain now closes four factories - 250 layoffs, some relocations, definitive and non-negotiable closure in madrid, asturias, baleares and alicante. coca-cola says, "they are not our employees, there is no contractual relationship". this is how he says goodbye to half a century of working relationship with these people. run and close, and relocate. this is not industrial policy; this is not trade policy. the commission must play the role of industrial policy, and of course coca cola is not going to close or lay off people, because it will lose the spark of life.
mr president, every year, about 3 000 women die in europe as a result of gender-based violence. the figure is brutal, but it's only an estimate. many member states lack statistics because gender-based violence is a private domestic matter in those countries, and it is therefore impossible to combat this scourge. we need a european framework that makes the scale of this problem visible throughout europe, and we must now move to put the figures and the limitation of fundamental rights into practice. we need a comprehensive european strategy focused on victim care, the coordinated prosecution of these crimes and, above all, prevention. gender-based violence is the most serious consequence of inequality, and eradicating it is a matter of education and values. the house of freedom and the values we build every day must, first of all, protect coexistence and respect in every european home for every european woman.
the next item is the joint debate on: the report by philippe de backer, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth survey 2014 (2013/2157 ((ini)) (a7-0084/2014), the report by sergio gutiérrez prieto, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2014 (2013/2158 ((ini)) (a7-0091/2014), and the report by sergio gaetano cofferati, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on market governance in the framework of the 2014 european semester (2013/2194 ((ini)) (a7-0066/2014).
the rapporteur. - mr barroso, i listened to you very carefully today and i would like to believe in the reality you have sweetened today when you talk about improvements, turning points and the way out of the crisis. i'd like to believe you. but after this political-fiction speech that you've addressed us here today, it would be grossly irresponsible to believe every word of it, every diagnosis of it. mr president, i will not deny that there are some positive figures, but can we talk about improvements, mr barroso, with annual growth in 2013 of 0.0%? can we talk about improvements with 27 million unemployed in europe (one in five young people unemployed)? can we talk about improvements when 24 per cent of european households and families are at risk of poverty, at risk of social exclusion? can we talk about recovery when, after having injected 500 billion euros into the financial system, credit still does not flow and the little that does does so at totally exorbitant interest rates? no, mr barroso, i have not. if we are talking about improvements in the financing systems of the member states, i welcome it. if we do it by talking about trade deficits, i do the same. but to proclaim recovery today with this rate of growth, unemployment and inequality seems to me a serious exercise of irresponsibility on your part. but you know what the bigger problem is, mr. president? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are in the europe of divergences, in the europe of inequality, in a europe which, in order to emerge from the crisis, is losing every single one of the signs of identity that we have built with this project. or can you, mr barroso, be proud that for the first time in european history the levels of convergence between member states are declining today? or can he be proud that the gap between the rich and the poor in the european union today is widening like never before? or can we be proud that the gap in unemployment growth rates between the peripheral and central countries is the largest in our history (10.5 points in 2012 and still growing)? or can we be proud that 20 of the 28 member states have cut their budgets for education today and that we are giving up human capital 'just to compete on the downside at costs which, by the way, are no longer worthwhile and which are putting our social model at risk'? mr barroso, in the report i am rapporteur for we warn of the lack of commitment of the commission and the member states to the recommendations made by this european parliament, and that is why we are calling for an interinstitutional agreement to go further. we remind him of the recessive effects of the deficit reduction timetable on growth and employment, but we also warn him that some of the structural reforms the commission is proposing may be as harmful to growth as that timetable for fiscal reduction has been. we ask you to strengthen the social indicators, which have taken four years to introduce and are now insufficient when it comes to making your recommendations. we ask them to create a real investment package to compensate in part for the excesses of adjustment that are being imposed in some countries of the european union and, above all, we ask them for a more ambitious strategy to fight for employment and against youth unemployment. but most of all, we tell them they're right. we tell them that we cannot fall into complacency and that we must continue to make improvements that increase our competitiveness. but that cannot be achieved solely and exclusively by devaluing wages: firstly, because we are devaluing our domestic demand, because it makes us more dependent on the economic conditions of other countries; but, above all, what they are doing to us is increasing the feeling of social injustice of many citizens who either lose their jobs or lose a significant part of their wages. i would like to conclude, mr president, by reminding you that a few weeks ago the commission warned that in some countries of the european union today having a salary is no longer synonymous with getting out of poverty. or rather, that the wages earned for their work are no longer sufficient to guarantee a minimum of decent quality of life. what i am wondering is whether the commission, whether you, mr barroso, are aware that it is your policies, your recommendations, your decisions that are promoting precisely what you are criticizing.
mr president, commission president, minister, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mr de backer, on the great work he has done on this report. i believe that this debate on the european semester is an opportunity to take stock of what has been achieved so far. as president barroso said, a little over a year ago we were talking about the collapse of the euro. the debate today is about growth and job creation, and above all how to accelerate the latter. all this has been achieved thanks to the efforts of everyone, thanks to reforms at national level, thanks to the processes of fiscal consolidation and thanks to the progress in european integration. however, as we said here, much remains to be done. no one's said otherwise. the focus now needs to be on boosting growth and job creation, and to do this it is key to continue the reform processes at national level in order to achieve productivity gains and to continue to boost our exports, which will undoubtedly be the engine of growth. but above all, more effort is needed to ensure that smes have access to credit. it is true that the banking union and the single resolution mechanism will help to achieve this objective, but it is not enough. in the short term we need stronger action from the european investment bank and the european central bank, and we also need to join forces to fight youth unemployment. i would like to highlight the efforts made by commissioner andor in this respect. it's time to release the juvenile bond funds. they need to be active as soon as possible. finally, we must continue to move towards the much-needed economic and monetary union with greater democratic legitimacy.
mr president, commissioners, mr minister, a year ago we debated the direction of the political guidelines of the european union and the need or not to change the economic and social strategy. two options were considered: to continue with fiscal and budgetary consolidation that was proportional, differentiated and favourable to growth, or to return to the path of those policies based on spending which had led us to a situation of crisis, unemployment and social drama. fortunately, we have opted for the former and, despite the efforts of the citizens, the situation is changing. the economic scenario - the starting point for steady and secure progress in job creation - and the social situation have improved. we have overcome the doubts and fears about the possible bankruptcy of some countries or the break-up of the euro. and we have secured the welfare state and social services that the wrong policies of the past have put in jeopardy. the fruits are beginning to be seen, the job destruction has stopped and we are on the path of growth - little by little - and the recovery of employment. so now, with the economic outlook improving, it is time to focus more deeply on the social and employment aspects - without changing course and continuing in the reformist spirit - and, above all, on the labour market. nor can we forget the particular needs of certain regions or provinces, especially those with a low population density where it is more difficult to maintain economic activity and therefore employment, which affects the provision of public services such as education or health care. in spain there are several regions which suffer from this problem, such as my own region, aragon, and in particular the province of teruel. i therefore ask that in future this problem be taken into account in the allocation of the cohesion funds, as has been done in the northern regions of europe with such good results.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all the speakers and by stressing something that has been mentioned here: the complementarity of the three reports. the three of them bring together the reality of a european economy which, while it is true that it has made improvements from a macroeconomic point of view, also has a dramatic social aspect. the problem with mr barroso's speech today is that he wanted to emphasize the first too much, whilst completely ignoring the second; and ignoring reality does not make the problems disappear, but on the contrary, makes them worse. mr barroso and many other members of the pp today wanted to talk to us about the benefits of fiscal consolidation, but they defend it with some statements that are not true. mr barroso said that there are some who still defend the deficit today ('spend what you don't have') and that is not true. what we are advocating is precisely another pace of fiscal consolidation which is radically the opposite. why would you do that? because there are studies which are telling us that a different pace of fiscal consolidation would have prevented, in percentage terms, much more job destruction than some of the labour reforms which are being done and which the commission is so much promoting in this european semester process. look, the most alarming thing is that we created this half-year process to increase coordination of economic policies, to boost growth and foster cohesion. and the reality is that, four years later, we have only had one single recipe that has not exactly favoured economic growth, it has increased economic divergences and, above all, social inequalities. and it is now our responsibility to be able to correct them, by considering the social and employment elements on an equal footing with the macroeconomic ones, by an action aimed at stimulating knowledge, by restructuring private debt - to which no one has referred today - which is as alarming and more worrying in terms of sustainability, for example, than public debt, and also by making a real investment plan. i would also like to thank the work of the alternative rapporteurs, the other rapporteurs on the other reports and, above all, ana ahijado, because without her work i would certainly not have been able to produce this report of which i am so proud.
in writing. - in favour. on the basis of the considerations presented and pursuant to rule 7(3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommended that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr tadeusz cymański. our group supported that position.
in writing. - in favour. since 2009, the financial crisis and economic recession have, to varying degrees, affected the financial stability and economic growth of the european union in general and, in particular, that of member states receiving external assistance. the latter countries have been under macro-economic adjustment programmes agreed with the commission, which initially covered seven member states: cyprus, greece, hungary, ireland, latvia, portugal and romania. only cyprus, greece, ireland and portugal are currently still receiving financial assistance. these four member states are subject to severe budgetary constraints, and these constraints cause liquidity problems resulting from the necessary fiscal consolidation and hamper the implementation of operational programmes. there is therefore an urgent need to help ensure that conditions are in place that will facilitate the management of european union funds, so as to leverage and speed up investment in the member states receiving financial assistance and provide a boost for projects that are essential for socio-economic recovery and sectoral development.
in writing. - in favour. we follow the rapporteur and the specialised committees consulted who oppose to most of the adaptations of provisions for the use of rps to the regime and implementing acts, which have been proposed by the commission without a detailed and individual justification. therefore, except for specific exceptions, most of the provisions included by the commission in annex ii have been moved to annex i. similarly, most of the deletions contained in annex iii, which have not been justified, have been deleted and transformed into delegated acts.
in writing. - in favour. the present draft report is related to a proposal covering five legislative acts in the area of justice which still refer to the rps(5). given the specificity of the subject-matter, which entirely falls within the remit of the committee on legal affairs, no opinion-giving committees are concerned. this draft report does not contain amendments.
in writing. - the present draft report is related to a proposal covering 160 legislative acts in various policy areas. parliament states that the three proposals should be regarded as a package, subject to the same timetable and adopted as soon as possible, so that the alignment exercise can be completed, ideally, by the end of the current legislative term. the present draft report contains a limited number of amendments that were suggested by the specialised committees in their opinions.
in writing. - in favour. a draft amendment to rule 136 was submitted by the meps ms[nbsp ]brantner and 14 co-signatories pursuant to rule 212(1). under this rule the committee on constitutional affairs is required to examine the proposal and decide whether to submit it to parliament. in substance the amendment seeks to record expressly in the minutes those members who were not present at sittings but had been excused by the president (for e.g. maternity/paternity leave). currently, the concept of maternity/paternity leave does not exist in the legal provisions governing the parliamentary mandate (the act of 1976 and the membersʼ statute). it is however recognised as a legitimate reason for absence from official meetings (article[nbsp ]31(4) of the implementing measures for the membersʼ statute).
in writing. - i voted against the report because the targets originally proposed for reducing emissions have been lowered in the negotiation process in informal tripartite dialogues because of pressure from the german government.
in writing. - against. this vote confirms what is a major pre-electoral gift for the german car industry. meps have endorsed this agreement to scale back previously-agreed co2 emission limits for cars for 2020. the final agreement, which reneged on an earlier agreement, also undermines the eu’s democratic decision-making process. the agreement reached between the ep and the council was already low on ambition. weakening and delaying the agreed 2020 limits, which have long been established, is a shameful sop to german car manufacturers and will slow down the development of new technologies for delivering more efficient and less polluting cars. unfortunately, some in the european car industry continue to view climate protection and competitiveness as mutually exclusive, rather than complementary.
in writing. - the quality of the environment and its improvement is one of the commitments of all the institutions of the european union. this commitment is put into practice in this resolution, whereby co2 emissions from cars will be reduced from the 130[nbsp ]g/km planned for 2015 to 95[nbsp ]g/km in 2020. manufacturers or producers who do not introduce these improvements in their vehicles will be penalized or will have to compensate for this excess with other models, since the union aims to save 50 million tonnes of emissions by this reduction. the super-credit system shall use a favourable weighting system for the cleanest vehicles from any of the manufacturers. in addition, the new emission calculation system developed by the united nations, which will be used for this purpose, should enter into force as soon as possible, as set out in this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour, although i regret the outcome of the negotiations as regards the flexibility which, through numerous exceptions and compensations, is provided to the motor industry to meet the objectives.
in writing. - against. the trademark system is in general beneficial for consumers. it is also fairly stable compared to irp systems which are continuously expanding in scope of subject matter and enforcement measures to the detriment of consumers. the greens managed to get a good and balanced text. nevertheless, in a final minute move, the epp and s&d made some amendments that broke the consensus.
in writing. - in favour. the european parliament has been calling on the commission to propose new legislation on confiscation for a long time. in its own initiative report adopted in october 2011, the parliament stressed, in particular, the need for rules on the effective use of extended and non-conviction based confiscation, rules allowing for the confiscation of assets transferred to third parties. in addition, parliament encouraged the introduction of instruments in national legal systems which, under criminal, civil or fiscal law, as appropriate, mitigate the burden of proof concerning the origin of assets held by a person accused of an offence related to organised crime.
in writing. - money and property acquired illegally cannot be allowed to cross freely the borders of the european union without being pursued and, of course, confiscated. the fight against corruption must also be a priority, especially in these times of crisis and of necessary solidarity, and, after a firm and definitive condemnation, the search for the proceeds of a crime must be another part of the work of justice through the established resources. to leave convicted and tried criminals in prison while the beneficial fruit of their misdeeds remains - as, for example, dirty money - in circulation is certainly intolerable. the text which was supported and voted in favour will give the member states the power to fight corruption in the private sector and also against those officials, both of the european institutions and of the member states, who are involved in the commission and outcome of the crime. the authorities must act without any mitigating factor even if the prisoner is absconding or sick.
in writing. - against, for the same reasons i set out in a7-0031/2014.
in writing. - the necessary and understandable harmonization of trade marks - with a regulation already existing in any case within the european union - was clearly in need of an impetus to update the prevailing reality. the proposal to recast the directive aims to modernise and improve the existing provisions by correcting any obsolescence in the regulation and providing greater legal certainty. this will also lead to greater approximation of procedures and regulations in the different member states and facilitate cooperation between the national offices and ohim. special care shall be taken in the handling of goods in transit, including the right of the proprietor of a registered trade mark to oppose the introduction of goods from third countries into the territory of the union where these goods bear an unauthorised trade mark identical to the validly registered trade mark of the european union. however, it would not apply if the final destination of the goods was a country outside the territory of the union and the proprietor could not prove that his trade mark was validly registered in that country of final destination.
in writing. - in favour. the european police office (europol) was established in the first instance on 26 july 1995 by a convention, the only instrument available at that point in time under the maastricht treaty. the convention had to be ratified by all member states before it entered into force. this meant that the europol convention could only be altered through a ‘protocol’, an instrument which then had to be submitted to the national parliaments for its subsequent ratification. three protocols were ratified between 2000 and 2003, with the aim of improving europol’s operation. these protocols entered into force between 29 march and 18 april 2007. the procedure involved was particularly long and complex. this shows the extent to which it was difficult, or almost impossible, to rapidly alter europol’s overall framework to tackle urgent situations for which it required new powers. europol needed to be governed by a more effective legal instrument that would enable it to respond more rapidly in its fight against crime, with the latter taking on an ever more international character.
in writing. - in favour. this directive is a recast and a merge of directives 2005/71/ec of 12 october 2005 on a specific procedure for admitting third-country nationals for the purpose of scientific research and directive 2004/114 of 13 december 2004 on the conditions of admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, pupil exchange, unremunerated training or voluntary service. this new proposal also adds two new categories: remunerated trainees and au-pairs. until now, these two categories have not been included in a framework that regulates their situation. including them in this directive will help to prevent exploitation and undocumented work.
in writing. - it is desirable that students and researchers from third countries should be allowed to continue their teaching or research activities for up to one and a half years after the end of their studies or research, so that they can seek employment or set up a business. we must attract to the european union those who are willing to promote the necessary r & d, where we are clearly outstripped by the united states and japan, where they are given better living conditions. we cannot afford to lose competitiveness in fields so fundamental to the development of our societies. if mobility is one of the policies which the union is promoting most, we must regulate it in a favourable way so that aspects such as the question of deadlines or fees for processing applications, for example, add to the undesirable handicaps faced by this human and intellectual potential which is seeking to leave its expertise and experience within our common space.
in writing. - i think the creation of such a body is interesting for two reasons. firstly, by providing the union with an effective tool for channelling humanitarian aid and, secondly, by helping to strengthen the european and europeanist spirit through volunteers. the text is also balanced in its development. i voted yes.
in writing. - in favour. on 19 september 2012, the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation establishing the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps - eu aid volunteers, as provided for by article 214(5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. its objective is to express the union’s humanitarian values and solidarity with people in need, through the promotion of an effective and visible european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, which contributes to strengthening the union’s capacity to respond to humanitarian crises and to building the capacity and resilience of vulnerable or disaster-affected communities in third countries. the proposal builds on the 2010 communication ‘how to express eu citizens’ solidarity through volunteering: first reflections on a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps’. the report welcomes the commission’s approach, in that it has made this initiative complementary to existing structures and organisations and has avoided duplication of effort.
in writing. - the european social fund is the european union's main instrument for promoting employability, combating poverty and promoting social inclusion. however, the fund does not reach all citizens equally, as the most vulnerable are not able to benefit from its action because their extreme poverty puts them too far from the labour market. in response to this situation, the fund for european aid to the most deprived was established, which aims to promote social cohesion in the union, contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people living in or at risk of poverty and social exclusion, with priority given to food, housing and social inclusion, with a focus mainly on children. i therefore welcome the fact that parliament is adopting a proposal for better regulation of this fund for european aid to the most deprived.
in writing. - in favour. through the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the target of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 20 million by 2020. the economic and financial crisis ,however, is exacerbating poverty and social exclusion across the union. almost 120 million europeans, a rise of six million in two years and now nearly one quarter of the total population, were at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2011. over 40 million suffer from severe material deprivation. one in ten under 60-year olds live in households with low-work intensity. one of the main features of material deprivation is an inability to access appropriate quantities and qualities of food. 43 million europeans are unable to afford a meal with meat, chicken or fish (or vegetarian equivalent) every second day, a who-defined basic need. children are particularly sensitive to food poverty and poor eating patterns can adversely affect brain development and capacity to learn as well as their future health.
in writing. - with today's vote we have managed to maintain the initial budget of €3.5 billion for the period 2014-2020 aimed at strengthening the role of anti-poverty organisations, rejecting the €1 billion cut proposed by the member states. this new programme, which replaces the european food aid programme for the most deprived, is being extended to include two programmes for the distribution of food and other basic necessities, as well as to fund social inclusion measures for the poorest people in the eu. according to 2011 data, around 120 million europeans were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the european parliament is working to meet the poverty reduction targets set by the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - in favour. parliament and the council adopted on 22 may 2012 regulation (eu) no 528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. the biocidal products regulation represented a significant and substantial revision of the existing legislation governing biocidal products through the harmonisation of the rules on the making available on the market and the use of biocidal products, whilst ensuring a high level of protection of both human and animal health and the environment. since its adoption, the commission has identified a number of technical errors and unintended consequences in the regulation, particularly as regards the transitional provisions in articles 94 and 95. it has therefore adopted this amending proposal in order to make the necessary corrections and clarifications as soon as possible given the application of the regulation as of 1 september 2013. in order to provide the necessary legal clarity and certainty to member states, industry and the general public, this report therefore supports the commission proposal. furthermore, given the substantial revision undertaken only two years previously, the report does not support any re-opening of issues of political substance agreed during the negotiation of the original regulation.
in writing. - violence against women is an insidious form of human rights violation and gender discrimination, and is the main cause of gender inequality and an obstacle to women's full participation in economic, social, political and cultural life. women who are victims of violence face long-term severe psychological and physical trauma, in addition to the heavy economic burden it imposes in the form of health care costs, administrative and legal costs, and lost productivity and wages. 45[nbsp ]% of women have suffered some form of violence; between 12[nbsp ]% and 15[nbsp ]% of women in europe are victims of domestic violence and every day seven women die in the european union from this cause.
in writing. - the text voted is excellent and sends a clear message to the commission, together with detailed recommendations, to launch a legislative proposal to combat violence against women at eu level. i voted yes.
in writing. - we have finally adopted something that the socialists have been calling for for years: a comprehensive strategy against gender-based violence, including a legal instrument in the form of a directive. the report on combating violence against women calls on the european commission to present, by the end of 2014, a proposal for an act setting out measures to promote and support action by member states in the field of preventing violence against women and girls. in addition, one of the problems we face is the lack of concrete data on gender-based violence. it is therefore crucial that the report not only calls on the commission to present a revised proposal for a regulation on european statistical data on all forms of violence against women, but also provides for a coherent system for the collection of data on gender-based violence in the member states.
in writing. - in favour. violence against women is a pervasive violation of human rights and a form of gender-based discrimination. it is the root cause of gender inequality, as it is an obstacle to women’s full participation in economic, social, political and cultural life. around 20 to 25% of women in europe have experienced acts of physical violence at least once during their adult lives and over 10% have suffered sexual violence involving the use of force. as many as 45% of women have endured some form of violence; 12 to 15% of women in europe are victims of domestic violence and seven women die every day in the european union from it (pe 504.467). in consequence of economic crisis budget cuts, the most common argument states that countries cannot allocate more resources to fight against and prevent gender based violence. according the studies, the economic cost of violence against women in the eu in 2011 is estimated at eur 228 billion each year, including eur 45 billion for services, eur 24 billion in lost economic output and eur 159 billion on pain and suffering. the costs of preventive measures are substantially less than the cost of violence (pe 504.467).
in writing. - between 20 and 25%[nbsp] of the female population in europe has been the victim of physical violence at least once during her adult life. not to mention that more than 10% of european women have suffered sexual violence with the use of force. that is why we have today called on the european commission to come forward, by the end of 2014, with legislative proposals to prevent violence against women and girls in the european union, supporting the action of the member states in the field of prevention of this phenomenon.
in writing. - in favour. the purpose of this report is to take stock of the practical application of articles 290 and 291 tfeu and provide the rapporteurs with a number of practical guidelines when dealing with delegated and implementing acts. parliament received, as of 18 july 2013, 69 delegated acts (4 in 2010, 7 in 2011, 38 in 2012 and 20 so far in 2013) including 64 delegated regulations, 2 delegated directives and 3 delegated decisions, and neither co-legislator has objected so far to a delegated act.
in writing. - in favour. recalls its view that the fiscal situation of member states can be eased through a new system of own resources to finance the union budget that will reduce gross national income contributions, thus enabling member states to meet their consolidation efforts without jeopardising eu funding to support investment in economic recovery and reform measures.
in writing. - the report provides important policy proposals: (i) policies for social protection, unemployment benefit, minimum wage and progressive taxation; (ii) the need to shift the tax burden from labour to other forms of sustainable taxation; (iii) the need to combine macroeconomic policies with structural policies, a coherent labour market and the promotion of welfare policies; (iv) the need to stimulate domestic demand and the creation of quality employment; (v) better implementation of gender equality policies; and (vi) the fight against tax fraud, the shadow economy and false self-employment. i voted yes.
in writing. - in favour. the report welcomes the fact that this year, for the first time, the draft joint employment report annexed to the annual growth survey (ags) includes a scoreboard for employment and social policies, which will help to strengthen the monitoring of employment and social developments as part of macroeconomic surveillance within the european semester; considers that this should impact policy guidance in the european semester in order to reinforce the social dimension of the economic and monetary union, since this is not only desirable but also necessary in order to address the crisis and prevent serious socio-economic divergences in the eurozone, thereby enhancing its sustainability; expresses its deep concern at the limited nature of the role of parliament in the european semester; deplores the fact that little progress has been made by the commission and council to strengthen democratic scrutiny of the economic policy guidance; is of the opinion that under the existing treaties article 136 tfeu allows the council, on a recommendation from the commission and with the vote of only the member states whose currency is the euro, to adopt binding economic policy guidelines for the eurozone countries in the framework of the european semester.
in writing. - i am in favour of the phasing out of early retirement schemes, except for the longterm unemployed. i also propose that companies which resort to early retirement should have to cope with the increase in public expenditure which this practice causes. this would facilitate another objective that reforms should pursue: the approximation of the actual retirement age to the legal age.
in writing. - against. the draft of this own-initiative (ini) report stated how much new breeding techniques (= gmo, gene stacking, etc.) are needed. there are a few sweet texts on importance of biodiversity but it is not its real purpose. the gm lobby wants to have a few ini reports that it can quote in its propaganda for the next few years while it launches a new offensive with a new legislature: fresh meps will join the ep and shiny brochures and websites will tell them how wonderful gmos and plants bred for use with pesticides are, and so the majorities are set for the next five years…
in writing. - the report is accurate in setting out the challenges facing the eu due to increased demand for food and increasingly extreme weather conditions. however, it is necessary to specify which methods are best suited to increase the productivity and competitiveness of the agricultural sector, and what the consequences and impacts will be in the medium and long term.
the following is the order of business for the joint debate on:- report by saïd el khadraoui, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending, as regards the opening of the market for national rail passenger services and the governance of railway infrastructure, council directive 2012/34/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 21 november 2012 establishing a single european railway area (com (2013) 29 final - c7-0025/2013 - 2013/0029 (cod)) (a7-0037/2014), - report by mathieu grosch, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 as regards the opening of the market for national rail passenger services (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod (cod) (cod) (cod) (cod (cod (cod) (cod) (cod (cod) (cod (cod) (cod (cod) (cod (cod) (cod) (cod (cod) (cod) (cod (cod) (cod) (cod (cod) (co) (d (d) (d) (d) (d) (d (d) (d) (d) (d) (d) (d
mr president, just one point for the record. the previous president - i think because of the situation - said that we were in the debate on the european semester. however, we are in the joint debate on the fourth railway package. i would therefore ask you to specify that for the purposes of the minutes, mainly because mr el khadraoui has been talking very highly of the semester, but of a semester on wheels.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. we need it because by 2050 europe will have seen an 80% increase in the movement of goods and a 50% increase in the movement of passengers. we're starting from a very alarming situation. today, the saturation of our current mobility systems costs us more than 1% of european gdp per year. in addition, logistics, transport and storage account for between 10[nbsp ]% and 15[nbsp ]% of the cost of the finished product. our mobility is also now dependent on fossil fuels, because transport uses them to meet 96% of its energy needs and produces a quarter of europe's greenhouse gas emissions. to meet our environmental goals, we need to reduce them by 60%. rail is one of the keys to the revolution we need to change the concept of transport to that of integrated mobility management. and we're managing with fear the need to put their advantages front and center. there is no single european area in this sector because we refuse to abandon and transform a business model that has become outdated. the problems we have are strictly dependent on our will and not on imponderables. we spend a lot of time maintaining absurd barriers between our railway infrastructures, which forces manufacturers, operators and users to spend much more time and money to overcome them. avoiding this vicious circle; providing a single railway area that plays with the other modes of transport in this integrated mobility system; seizing the opportunities for development and job creation, including many quality jobs - because they are based on knowledge and innovation - and keeping our rail industry at the forefront of a sector that is gaining weight worldwide are the objectives of this railway package we are discussing today. the report on interoperability aims to cut through the forest of rules and regulations which make it practically impossible for new operators to emerge and which generate unacceptable costs for our manufacturers of physical infrastructure and railway equipment in an economic area which is neither exemplary nor unique in the railway field, and which remains a prisoner of the more than 11 000 rules issued by more than twenty state railway agencies. therefore, putting a locomotive into service for use in at least three of our member states involves spending 30% of the cost of the product on the market on red tape. we're very good at making trains, though. my small country is an example of how leading companies in the sector, based on specialisation and innovation, have increased their turnover tenfold in a decade. and they have order books with 83% of sales abroad. for a country of 2[nbsp ]300[nbsp ]000 inhabitants, we are talking about companies that close 2013 with an order book approaching 5 billion euros and headquarters on the five continents. we therefore need to make progress on the regulation which aims to create the public-private innovation company shif2rail, which is focused on promoting innovation in the sector. we have sought to address these challenges in this report. i am grateful for the collaboration of all those involved in achieving these objectives: the alternative rapporteurs and the sectors involved - who have helped us to build a report that is demanded by users, industry and rationality. we have made much less progress on this line than i would have liked. at least the report contains a reinforcement of the european railway agency. the agreements reached between the groups are detailed in nine commitments which summarise some 388 amendments out of the 490 which have been tabled. we have devoted many hours to this work, which would not have been possible without the invaluable collaboration of my team, especially itxaso muñoa salaverria, who has literally given her skin to this endeavour, and elvira ramírez from the secretariat of the committee on transport and tourism. if this text is consolidated in the house and pending the trialogue meetings with the council and the european commission which have to be held, the european railway agency will have the exclusive competence to authorise vehicles running on the railways in europe within four years. it will also create and manage a comprehensive register of vehicles at european level. it shall authorise the physical infrastructure of european priority corridors and cross-border areas with a single infrastructure manager. the european agency shall also be competent to authorise the putting into service of the european railway traffic monitoring system in close cooperation with the national safety associations, which shall be associated to this procedure. they will be responsible for checking the operational competitiveness of their networks. the commission will also be required to submit a tender for the authorization of ertms systems, which are essential for the operation of automatic safety systems. the report also calls for technical specifications to incorporate accessibility for disabled or reduced mobility travellers as a horizontal criterion. finally, and as it should be, the definitions in this report are coordinated, negotiated and aligned with the three technical reports. for all these reasons, i am announcing that i will oppose the amendment tabled by 40 members to the text of article 21 'regulating authorisation procedures'. it does not take an expert in the field to know that this formulation favours the positions of some monopoly which has worked hard to maintain a dominant position in the market, which has more to do with tradition than with the services provided to citizens and businesses. on the contrary, i will support the amendment by the socialist group setting the date for the afe to start operating fully in 2018.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth railway package was inexcusable, it was necessary, and it was certainly necessary, because, despite successive legislative changes in recent years, rail transport has not succeeded in becoming the efficient and sustainable mode of transport that the european union needs. the european commission has therefore presented an ambitious reform plan to make it easier for a railway company in one member state to have easy and unhindered access to networks in other countries. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013), as well as the costs of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 22 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013), and the costs of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 22 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013), as well as the costs of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 22 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013), and the costs of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 22 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013), and the costs of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 22 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013), as well as the costs of the european schools for the period 2014-2020. i think i have to refer to interoperability, which is the subject of one of the three reports which make up the technical pillar and for which i had the honour of being the alternative rapporteur. interoperability, ladies and gentlemen, means, in a simplified way, that the railway systems of the european union are as uniform as possible in their technical aspects. the whole package, ladies and gentlemen, is tied together, hence it cannot be divided. the agency has been given more powers, such as the power to authorise new railway vehicles on union roads, saving time. in addition, in order to be issued, the single safety certificate must have features and guarantees that create a safer european railway area. hence the whole package is linked; the pillar of governance must allow for a more open, dynamic and competitive market. despite all the difficulties, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner - and i hope this is not just a matter of words - let us be able in parliament to approve at least the basis, so that the council can live up to what the commission has done and what this parliament, with much dialogue, has tried to do amongst all.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, railways in europe are a €70 billion business and employ 700,000 people, but they also benefit from significant public investment, €26 billion, of which €20 billion is for public service obligations. despite all this effort, travellers tell us that this does not result in growth, multiplication and quality of service. of the 30 service sectors assessed, railways ranked only 27th. not to mention the slow decline of freight transport, which is almost dying in my country, although the pyrenean borders have something to do with it - alas, always those borders, both geographical and functional, which in the end defeat the railway. while we have been able to help the air and road modes - or have been able to modernise them - by experiencing a huge explosion in both passengers and goods, even risking collapse, the railway sector has not yet succeeded, maintaining the traditional integrated national flag companies in a spirit of holding that is not very transparent but rather defensive; a spirit of public holding, but also, after all, could be private, because this enormous resistance has managed to maintain an opacity that today, in the 21st century, is not possible to accept. that is why, when the railway package was launched in 2001 by a communist minister - i remember that i do not think he went mad - he was convinced that if we did not do something real with the european railways, with all their cheminots on board, we would die in our arms. it is therefore a question, ladies and gentlemen, of modernising and europeanising it, of making it more transparent. hence the texts of mr el khadraoui and mr grosch are our last chance not to worsen their fate. as regards the technical files, which i have been able to work very well with mrs bilbao and mr cramer on, they have enabled us to deal with the simplification of more than 11 000 existing rules at national level which block the growth and flourishing of the european railway. we have managed to transfer a large part of the certification capacity to the european railway agency, in transitional cooperation with the national agencies. we have also managed to maintain and humanize both technical packages through support for drivers and victims in the event of an accident.
mr president, because of the lack of results from the first railway package in opening the railway markets, the commission has presented this fourth railway package. its objective is to tackle the lack of efficiency and remove barriers to a free circulation of rail transport services. today the fact is that we still do not have a single railway market in the eu. ever since the beginning of the negotiations on the pso dossier i said that, for liberals, the status quo was not an option. i stressed that we had to act now. we have to open the market as soon as possible through, for example, mandatory tendering of public service contracts. in my view, this was the only big change towards market opening. as liberals, we were quite supportive of the initial commission proposal whose aim was to establish a competitive tendering procedure for public service contracts as a general rule across the eu from 2019. member states could only continue to award contracts directly up to 2019. however, the rapporteur and the socialist shadow did not share in this pressure for change. mr[nbsp ]grosch introduced a retrospective efficiency criterion in order to justify the continuation of directly awarded contracts by the competent authority. according to experts, this is very difficult to measure and control practically, and i do not believe change will come with this system. i am satisfied with the reciprocity clause. this principle is important in order to limit the distortion of competition in the rail market. this principle should apply not only to member states, but also to companies from third countries. in general i do not believe that this regulation, amended in this manner, could contribute to the opening and improving of domestic passenger transport. so, as we did in the committee on transport and tourism, i will recommend to the liberals that they abstain in plenary on the pso dossier.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will not go into the whole of this complex and important legislative package, but i will concentrate on one particular point in mr grosch's report, namely amendment no 16 in recital 11. the amendment 'calls on the member states to ensure a minimum service on public transport strike days'. i believe that this amendment interferes with the fundamental right of workers to strike. the regulation of the right to strike is a matter for the states and this right is enshrined in their constitutions. i am of the opinion that it is the state legislation that has to regulate minimum services, as it does with the other aspects of the right to strike. parliament is attacking the principle of subsidiarity if it supports this amendment. i also believe that the amendment does not fit in with the content of the amended paragraph, which 'must ensure an adequate level of social protection for the staff of public service operators'. i therefore ask my colleagues to vote against amendment no 16 to recital 11 of the grosch report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i just want to say that i hope that this house will give strong support to the report on interoperability tomorrow. with the rest of the reports we'll take a step, little one. and the proof of this will be that in the next legislature we will see a 'fifth railway package'. i think we need to approach this issue with less demagogy, more realism, more transparency and wanting to create together that railway space that people and the sector need, because we need to reduce emissions, innovate in this sector above other countries such as those in southeast asia, reduce costs and provide a more efficient service to users, with quality jobs. that is what we are aiming for: a small step tomorrow and we are waiting for the 'fifth railway package'.
so you say the same independent of the hat you wear? very well.
member of the commission. - madam president, good evening to each and every one of you. we are debating today this revision of the insurance intermediation directive. the rapporteur, mr werner langen, has just said that a properly informed choice of insurance can reduce the burden on the budget of families and on that of many small and mediumsized enterprises, and that this choice is also essential to ensure that the risks one takes are effectively and properly covered. this is the importance of protecting consumers effectively. the progress made in this revised directive in terms of transparency, responsible risk management and the elimination of conflicts of interest is, i believe, a very important step in that direction. insurance intermediation is a market - we know this well - dominated by smes, sometimes very small companies, micro-entities. and given the specificities of this market, i have opted, and the commission has opted, in its proposal, for maintaining a minimum harmonisation approach. i say this in relation to the criticisms i sometimes hear and the fact that europe is accused of over-harmonising in too many areas. this is an example of the european union simply setting a framework, leaving the member states the flexibility to adjust it to national specificities. i would like to thank your parliament very sincerely for its work and the speed with which it has worked on this imd 2 dossier, and in particular the rapporteur, werner langen, for his capacity, commitment and competence in this and other cases. i would also like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs antolín sanchez-presedo, olle schmidt, sven giegold, ashley fox and jürgen klute. we know that the council has not been able to keep up with you and that it will resume its work next april. i hope that an agreement will be concluded in the coming months, and at least this year. your report really improves on the proposal i made, and our concerns are very much the same. i would like to stress two points in particular: firstly, you have been concerned about strengthening consumer protection. for example, you introduced an information document for non-life products, as well as additional powers for the european authority eiopa. you also wanted to ensure fair and equal conditions of competition between all insurance distribution operators. you confirm the extension of the scope to insurance companies and insurance intermediaries, to actors selling insurance products as an incidental matter, and you also include insurance comparison websites. now, if we look to the future, in the future negotiations we will have to ensure that there is coherence with the other legislative dossiers which are also in the pipeline, in the corridor of legislative discussion. i think that this case has clear links with mifid (which was recently concluded), with the kidip regulation (currently in trilogue) or the directive on the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes. so let us be very careful to ensure that all these texts are consistent with each other. in any case, i will look into it with you and in good agreement with the council as soon as it has agreed on a general approach. mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, with this text we are allowing insurers and insurance intermediaries to remain a pole of stability and continuity in the financial markets, while consolidating consumer confidence and putting the european economy back on the path to the sustainable growth that citizens expect. this shared ambition has made good progress, in concrete terms, thanks to your work, and i wanted to thank you for that.
i would like to thank mr langen and the other rapporteurs with whom i have worked to reach a compromise. the insurance sector employs 1[nbsp ]200[nbsp ]000 people, and its assets are 62[nbsp ]% of the gdp of the european union. in the review of the insurance mediation directive i have advocated an area which meets international regulatory commitments, avoids legislative fragmentation and ensures a level playing field. the undertaking excludes complementary activities and premiums whose annual pro rata is less than eur 600 on a de minimis basis. financial products are not a simple commodity, they involve risk which must be managed and marketed to professional standards. this is why registration and declaration of activities, principles of conduct, the obligation to update the knowledge of staff 200 hours of training in five years and the amount of professional liability insurance are also increased. it is essential that the consumer is able to make informed and reasoned decisions, hence the requirement for a standardised information sheet and the commitment that investment insurance products comply with mifid standards. fair competition requires transparency in terms of remuneration. the amount of the adjustment to the eligible own funds to meet scr due to the application of the matching adjustment to the eligible own funds to meet scr due to the application of the matching adjustment to the eligible own funds to meet scr due to the application of the matching adjustment to the eligible own funds to meet scr due to the application of the matching adjustment to the eligible own funds to meet scr. compromise distinguishes between complex products and packages of products, reconciling freedom of supply with freedom of choice for the consumer, ensuring, in any case, price transparency. i shall therefore be voting for it tomorrow, and i hope that it will be ratified by a large majority.
madam president, tomorrow we will be adopting this third multiannual health programme, the main objective of which is to reduce inequalities in access to health. and i shall therefore vote in favour of it, because it is necessary and positive. but let's be clear, that in practice is a fallacy. that is not what the members of the european commission are doing, they are producing other effects with the complicity of many conservative governments. the austerity policies dictated by the troika, of which the commission is a member, are having a devastating effect, which must be denounced here, on access to health care. they're leading to suicide, depression, and infectious diseases, as well as reducing access to medicine and care. in some member states, people with chronic and serious illnesses are no longer able to pay for their treatment. they are preying on the most vulnerable and, if that is not what i am saying, i challenge the commission to bring to this parliament a single piece of evidence that supports the effects of austerity on the well-being of european citizens. there haven't been enough studies done to assess the impact of the cuts on health, the copayment, what's happening with access to health with these measures. the world health organization has had to tell states to invest in public health to reduce the effects of the austerity measures implemented to combat the crisis. indeed, they urge states to promote equal access to health care; they urge states not to turn health and its right into a business for a few. we know that you may not believe in it, but at least prevent the destruction of what we already have in some states, because if you do not, the effect you will have - and you have already had it - is that millions of europeans will despise the european union and are anxiously waiting for 25 may to come to see if it is relevant to them, who really deserve it and have earned it handsomely.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i could not agree more with the line that gunnar hökmark was setting out when he said that we do not need to talk about futuristic images and views. we should be very realistic. we are most definitely in urgent need of speed. we are talking about the competitiveness of europe. it is no longer a question of digital europe: yes or no? there is no choice – the answer is yes. we have to have this. and having said that, and in full agreement with mr[nbsp ]hökmark, we need to speed up. we need to make certain – and this was among the first words i spoke in this house at the beginning of this term in office – that when we talk about the digital [agenda] for every european, we have to fill in the gaps and we have to act in a fully realistic and speedy way. having said that, normally speaking i am not surprised by the remarks made by your honourable members, madam president. tonight i am, and here i am talking about the remarks made by ms[nbsp ]andersdotter. i find it a pity that she has left but perhaps she will read my remarks later. for she did understand, and was mentioning, why the member states did not accept our proposal, namely the numbers that we were proposing for the connecting europe facility. she said too that it showed there was not enough structural thinking in the commission. well, of course, the commission is not perfect. i have already been aware for quite some time that we are not structural thinkers. but no, madam, that is not acceptable to me, certainly not on this issue. for what is at stake – and that is the big problem mentioned by all the speakers tonight – if we are talking about the connecting europe facility we are talking about money that can be invested in services connected to this digital development but also in infrastructure that would not, normally speaking, be undertaken by private industry, because we are talking about rural areas. rural areas badly need the same type of connection and the same type of infrastructure as other areas, and normally speaking you have to give them a hand. that, by the way, was the main challenge of our connection and cooperation with the european investment bank and i am still grateful to them for their positive attitude. for with the leverage they can offer, because they have a aaa rating, we could make it a win-win situation and we could have done much more. well, i am a realist. i accept that we did not win that battle with the council. i do not accept ms[nbsp ]andersdotterʼs judgment, but perhaps i can discuss that with her later. anyhow, having said that, let us with the money that we receive, together with the european investment bank, do the best we can. referring to another critical remark by ms[nbsp ]andersdotter – and perhaps if she hears it today this will make her day because she was making a couple of critical remarks on e-identification. that was also a surprise for me but i am certain that i can please her in this case. today we reached an arrangement, an agreement on the directive on e-signature and on e-identification. so i am also counting my blessings and your blessings too hopefully. it was rightly said that e-signature is a part of the connecting europe facility regulation and is fully eligible for funding on the competitive basis. just a couple more remarks to make quite clear how important this report and agreement today is for our economic activity. our economic activities today can be expanded: young people looking for jobs; start-ups looking for infrastructure and if we just look at the figures, more than a million start-up jobs connected with app developers are at stake here. i am only talking about the last couple of years and if we look at what is to be expected, we have to just act and make it possible for them to do their jobs. so significant investment, in rural areas too, is at stake. together with the european investment bank, hopefully with much lower numbers, we can still prove that it is working and then, hopefully, later on the member states will realise that perhaps a second chance could make it better. finally, i will make sure that all parts of this programme, including europeana and safer internet, will be implemented in a professional and effective manner and rightly so. all digital services need to have a proper business plan, including those two i have mentioned.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, my thanks to the rapporteur and the shadows. i firmly agree with the assertion in the report that the opportunities of new technology should be accessible to all. we are aware that technology is moving fast. we are aware that millions of us have come to rely on the internet, the computer on our desk, the mobile phone in our pocket and online services ranging from entertainment to education or energy. these services boost productivity and boost performance in every sector. in terms of figures, the vibrant european app economy supports nearly two million jobs. today every european household has at least basic broadband coverage – as was pointed out, too, when we discussed the previous report – but that is not enough. for many people, the web may be accessible but websites are not. people with impaired vision or hearing difficulties should be able to access websites, especially those providing basic public services. we all want to see accessible websites offering public services to citizens, and this proposal rightly aims to set that in motion, to start making the vision a reality. it addresses the main problem in relation to web accessibility, namely market fragmentation leading to uncertainty on supply and demand. by introducing a single set of accessibility requirements for all public sector websites, we can generate a spillover effect that will make it easier for other websites to become more accessible. every member state has the freedom to extend the scope of the directive. the proposal encourages that, but we have also designed the legislation so as to minimise the regulatory burden, to have a minimum of red tape and to facilitate the development, with member states, of an easy monitoring system. we now also have a european accessibility standard to guide us. there are great european examples of brilliant, accessible websites but we need more of them. our challenge now is to make ‘accessible’ the norm and not the exception. so: minimum regulatory burden, minimum red tape and ease of monitoring. let me say again: every member state has the freedom to extend the scope of the directive. at european level, the task will be to produce further proposals to deal with other websites. let us get the ball rolling now, please! i welcome your report, mr[nbsp ]chatzimarkakis. i am encouraged, and i identify with, the energy you have put into these proposals. i also appreciate the many positive ideas you have put on the table. i hope that a swift agreement can be reached with council.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, dear rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the accessibility directive is intended to ensure that the content of public sector websites or websites operated by bodies performing public functions is accessible to all users, in particular to the group of people with disabilities, whether physical, mental, intellectual or sensory. this group - as has already been said - is estimated to represent some 80 million people in the european union as a whole. a broad range of public services is established to help member states meet their commitments: energy services, postal services, electronic communications networks, transport services, basic banking and insurance services, education, social protection, health, childcare, cultural and tourist activities. this directive will give citizens a greater ability to integrate fully in society and in their professional lives and to exercise their right of access to information. this directive will remove barriers to the internal market, reducing its fragmentation and increasing the confidence of suppliers and users. the websites concerned are expected to guarantee the neutrality of the network and its accessibility free of charge, as well as the security of information transmission and the protection of personal data. the directive emphasises accessibility irrespective of the device used, including mobile devices. the time limits for compliance with this directive are gradual. it shall apply in full between one and three years after the date of its entry into force. member states shall lay down rules on penalties applicable in an effective, proportionate and dissuasive manner in the event of non-compliance. we are laying the foundations for improving the quality of life, guaranteeing the basic rights of particularly vulnerable sections of the european population.
mr president, the rapporteur's efforts are commendable, as i know that they have been working on this matter for many years. but it is regrettable that so little progress has been made in defining a european legal system which would have its roots - it is important to proclaim this - in roman law and in the formation, already in the middle ages, of a common law shaped by the subtleties of the bologna glossators. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to be voting for the report. this is the biggest contradiction! for those of us who think that europe is first and foremost a community of law, steps like this - what this job entails - really do not satisfy us.
mr president, i congratulate my great friend luigi berlinguer on the energy he has put into this report and also on its restoration, which i very much welcome. i also wish mr lehne, who is a co-signer, all the best for the report and for his new role in european responsibilities. i would say that this subject, which is indeed - as my colleague sosa wagner has said - limited, is nevertheless very important because experience shows us that community law advances in this way, taking small steps in a clear direction, which form the basis for future broader developments. so it is really limited to electronic commerce and, moreover, a temporary assessment will be made, but what is clear is that arrogance is on the other side.
mr president, thank you, mr commissioner, i think we have been talking about the youth guarantee for a long time and that the time has come to get down to business, because millions of families and millions of young europeans are anxiously waiting for it. and it will not be an easy task, commissioner, because you have left it in the hands of the member states. i am very much afraid that this will dissolve into the usual policies and business as usual, and that they will be simply budgetary support, but that there will be no real change. you must take responsibility for ensuring that the propaganda we have made, the expectations we have created, are not frustrated, and you must help, not just advise, the member states so that they change reality and are not just a mechanism for changing statistics. i am very concerned, commissioner, about what you have said. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of education is not compromised. tell us the names! and we have to start changing that reality because it's terrible that it's just in an ad... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, one in four young people under 25 is not working in the union. in seven countries the unemployment rate is above 35%, in two of them it is above 50%. the vast majority have never worked. no temporary or part-time work. but these dramatic statistics do not show the real face of the problem. the real face includes that these young people feel excluded from society, feel devalued in their dignity and do not perceive a life horizon. so we are not only facing a drama, but an emergency. and in the face of this generational emergency, the reaction, still, is a not-so-quick reaction. we would have liked a faster reaction because emergencies require urgent responses, a more ambitious reaction because of the scale of the problem and a european dimension to explain to young people that europe has solutions for them. we support the commission in the quality framework. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i have to point out - because i have seen it before - that he wanted to put a question to a previous colleague and, as he did not have the opportunity to do so, he asks me and asks a question, in short, that he could have asked any other member of the house. i've said what i wanted to say. i wanted to say that i wanted a faster, more ambitious, more european initiative. i would like to say that i support the commission in imposing, or at least forcing, the member states to put in place a quality framework which provides not only a quantitative but also a qualitative response to the problem of youth unemployment.
mr president, commissioner andor, we need the integration of young people into the labour market, but we also need clear criteria and fraud prevention in order to apply european funds; we need to increase public and private collaboration; we need to share good practice, because we cannot let young people down and because our economy and competitiveness need their talent. they are the source of excellence and innovation for our growth. it is the states that must put forward the plans. you have spoken of 19 states which have raised them. i would like to ask you what your assessment is of the plans that have been put forward and what is the position of the eight that have not yet reacted immediately. do these plans include the regions? because the basque country has young people with a very qualified education and needs that are different from those of other spanish regions. has the spanish state presented its plan? and i would like to ask you: in the quality framework, a big disappointment. the states are opposing, as you have said. what are the arguments for states to oppose the quality framework we need if we really believe in young people? you asked us for help. how do we think we can help you? i'm willing to do that.
chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - mr president, on a point of order, as chair of and on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) committee, i ask you to support amendments that have been tabled by the libe committee. there are two reasons for this. firstly the proposal on the ecall system raises serious concerns on matters of privacy and, secondly, despite the libe committee having exclusive competence under rule[nbsp ]50, amendments to article[nbsp ]6 and recital[nbsp ]13 have not been included by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) in their report which is contrary to rule[nbsp ]50. the libe committee can only express regret that the conference of presidents has been called on to preserve the libe committee’s exclusive competence on those two points and the principle of cooperation between committees. secondly, the libe committee welcomes the decision that was taken by the conference of presidents on 20[nbsp ]february which safeguards the prerogatives of the committees under rule[nbsp ]50, clarifying the meaning and functioning of the said rule[nbsp ]50.
in writing. - in favour. the governance of the single market as an issue of structural importance has been placed on top of the political agenda thanks to a number of initiatives of the european commission and the european parliament, as well as with clear support by the european council. the commission’s communication of 8 june 2012 on better governance for the single market called for a renewed commitment to make the single market effectively deliver for growth and bring concrete results for european citizens, consumers and businesses. this was reiterated in the annual growth survey 2013 and the accompanying report on the state of the single market integration 2013, which called for the stepping-up of efforts to ensure better implementation and enforcement of rules that are already in place, in order to achieve that objective, and the following specific request for a ‘dedicated growth initiative [which] would feed into distinct country-specific recommendations that take into account the state of implementation of the single market’ made in a resolution on the single market act.
in writing. - the european commission's seventh and eighth progress reports on eu cohesion policy show a widening of development disparities between european regions as a result of the economic crisis. they continue to state that convergence regions are not able to overcome their difficulties on their own and that transition regions must continue their efforts to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. finally, they believe that interaction between cities and regions should be intensified in the mutual interest of achieving regional growth. once this analysis is established, the draft report makes suggestions to alleviate such problems, such as the continuous monitoring of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy or investment in infrastructure projects (in particular through support for cohesion policy), warning that the evaluation tools used by the commission are insufficient, and not sufficiently precise, and that the dependence of some member states and regions on the cohesion funds is a cause for concern. in line with the relevance of these measures, i express my support for the report.
in writing. - as we know, the economic and financial crisis has led to cuts in the co-financing of the structural and cohesion funds by the member states as a result of budgetary adjustments, bringing the convergence process to a standstill and exacerbating disparities between regions and the quality of life of citizens. it is a fact that austerity policy has a perverse effect on cohesion and contributes to the increase of inequalities in the european union. moreover, it is not enough on its own to foster growth and the creation of sustainable and quality jobs. i therefore call once again for the use of macroeconomic sanctions, which punish both regions and citizens, to be abandoned. finally, i ask the commission to examine the causes of the low absorption rates and the delay in the implementation of the available appropriations and to ensure that the late payment directive is being correctly applied to project beneficiaries and that appropriate measures are being taken to reduce late payments.
in writing. - in favour. our group managed to insert the following into the compromise amendments: references to the general principles of partnership and multi-level governance (recital[nbsp ]i) and emphasis on further action to be taken to reinforce the territorial dimension of the governance system of cohesion policy (paragraph[nbsp ]7); enhancing resource efficiency (paragraph[nbsp ]17); and particular attention to be paid to the cultural and creative sectors (paragraph[nbsp ]19).
in writing. - the own-initiative report analyses the outermost regions from the point of view of exploiting their potential in areas such as tourism, research into biodiversity and aerospace innovation. the main problems facing these regions are not overlooked: the need for housing and high unemployment, especially among young people. the report therefore calls on the commission to improve accessibility and integration with the european transport and communications networks, in order to promote job creation, through the various european programmes (erdf, life+, erasmus, etc.) taking into account the specificities of the outermost regions in the preparation of these programmes. it also recommends improving relations and estimating the impact of trade agreements with neighbouring third countries on the octs, which is certainly a positive development.
in writing. - there is no doubt that the outermost regions have special needs which must be treated differently and together by applying common policies and establishing synergies between all the union's instruments, funds and programmes. only in this way can the high unemployment rates, especially among young people, who are forced to emigrate, and the increase in social exclusion and poverty in the outermost regions be tackled. it therefore urged the commission to promote: - the creation of biannual forums between the european actors concerned in order to assess the effectiveness of the programmes undertaken and the necessary reforms; - the development of renewable energies in the outermost regions with a view to achieving energy autonomy; - synergies with the common fisheries policy, the common agricultural policy, the european development fund and the eu's external policy, as well as the 'connecting europe' mechanism, the civitas and horizon 2020 programmes, the future cosme programme and the progress microfinance instrument. we must be ambitious and provide these regions and their citizens with the greatest possible welfare.
in writing. - abstention. the report is not very balanced and puts forward a considerable number of requests for additional money, additional structures, specific programmes and measures (derogations) as well as flexibility in eu legislation for the outermost regions. the report tackles a series of eu programmes and strategies: horizon 2020, competition, biodiversity, youth, tens, maritime policy, cap, external policy, poverty and social exclusion, cosme and creative europe.
in writing. - in favour. the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) has added a new instrument to the toolbox of budgetary discharge: evaluation of the finances of the union based on results achieved. pursuant to article[nbsp ]318 of the treaty the commission is to prepare an annual report in this respect. since it focuses on financial performance this evaluation report complements the compliance approach developed by the european court of auditors in chapters[nbsp ]1 to 9 of its annual report. it offers parliament the opportunity to assess policy achievements and the legality of financial transactions. this shift will also facilitate the transition from activity-based budgeting to performance-based budgeting.
in writing. - in favour. the eu-central america political dialogue and cooperation agreement (pdca) was signed on 15[nbsp ]december 2003 in rome. in accordance with the then applicable ʻconsultationʼ procedure, the council consulted parliament and parliament approved the conclusion of the pdca in 2004. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the completion of the ratification procedure by member states in december 2011, the commission submitted a new proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the pdca in 2012. even though the text of the pdca included in that proposal remains unchanged, the text of the proposal does not have the same wording as the text of the draft council decision which was submitted to parliament in 2004. since any change to the draft proposal upon which consent has been given requires the repetition of the consent procedure, parliament must give its consent again.
in writing. - against. the eu-central america political dialogue and cooperation agreement (pdca) was signed on 15 december 2003 in rome. at the time, the european parliament was only in a ‘consultation’ procedure, therefore, the council consulted it and the former approved the conclusion of the pdca in 2004. however, this has to do especially with article 49(3) thereof, which we oppose.
in writing. - the number of unemployed over 45 has quadrupled since the current economic crisis began. one in three new unemployed generated during this period is over 45 years old. measures are needed to encourage the recruitment of people over 45 years of age in view of the increasing risk of social exclusion suffered by those who lose their jobs from that age onwards. add to this possible health problems related to the depression caused by becoming invisible from the work point of view. in fact, associations of older people who are unemployed for employment are being set up, as is the case in the region from which i come, the balearic islands.
in writing. - in favour. the european union’s value added tax (vat) is a general, broadly based consumption tax assessed on the value added of all commercial activities involving the production and distribution of goods and the provision of services, apart from few exemptions. vat does normally not apply to goods which are sold for export or services. however, it does apply to imports, so that eu producers can compete on equal footing in the internal market with suppliers of imported goods and services that are based outside of the union. vat is an indirect tax which is ultimately borne by the final consumer. it is charged as a percentage of the price paid by the buyer to the seller and collected through partial payments whereby each taxable person (both vat-registered businesses and self-employed persons) deduct from the vat they have collected the amount of tax they have paid to other taxable persons on purchases for their business activities. this mechanism ensures that the tax is neutral regardless of how many transactions are involved.
in writing. - by council decision 2009/831/ec, portugal was authorised to apply the reduced rate of excise duty in its autonomous regions of madeira and the azores to liqueurs and rums produced and consumed in those regions. this is justified by their small size, their fragmented nature, the low mechanization of their farms and the additional costs linked to the transport to the islands of raw materials not produced locally. since these elements remain unchanged, i welcome the fact that this decision seeks to amend the period of application, so that the deadline is extended from 31 december 2013 to december 2020.
in writing. - it is a purely technical report - of which i was the alternative rapporteur - extending the period of exemption from certain taxes for locally produced products in the azores and madeira.
in writing. - in favour. council decision 2009/831/ec of 10[nbsp ]november 2009, adopted on the basis of article[nbsp ]299(2) of the ec treaty (now article[nbsp ]349 tfeu), authorised portugal to apply exemptions from or reductions to taxes on a list of products produced locally in madeira and the azores up to 31[nbsp ]december 2013. the reasons for adopting specific measures, which are designed to strengthen local production and consumption by making it more competitive, were set out therein. the expiry date for the scheme was meant to coincide with the entry into force of new regional aid guidelines for the period 2014-2020. however, the new regional aid guidelines for that period will not enter into force until 1[nbsp ]july 2014. therefore, the commission considers extending the period of application of decision 2009/831/ec for six months to be justified, so that its expiry date coincides with the date of entry into force of the aforementioned guidelines, and proposes that the decision be amended accordingly.
in writing. - by council decision 2004/162/ec of 10 february 2004, france was authorised to apply exemptions or reductions from port taxes for a number of specific products in the overseas regions of guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. this is due to the remoteness, isolation, small market and low level of exports of these regions, as these factors, together with the dependence on air and sea transport, energy and raw materials, have a side effect on production costs, so that, without this measure, local production would be unsustainable. this proposal aims to update the decision by adding the region of mayotte, which was classified as an overseas region by decision 2012/419/eu. since the territory of mayotte, as an overseas region, suffers the same disadvantages as the regions already included in the decision, i welcome the fact that it is intended to be added.
in writing. - it is a very technical report - i was the alternative rapporteur for it - which grants a number of tax exemptions to products from mayotte. i am of the opinion that more information would be needed on the effectiveness of the measures introduced both in the local economy and in employment.
in writing. - in favour. the proposed modification appears to be justified by objective reasons as it stems from the mayotte status change as decided by the above-mentioned decision of the european council, and granting therefore an identical treatment to all the french overseas regions (ors). regi endorsed the proposal without amendments under the simplified procedure (rule 46(1)). we can agree on the addition of mayotte into the list of ors benefitting from tax exemption because of the technical nature of the proposal. but we also point to the following challenges: - we need to have further information on the effectiveness of the measures introduced (impact assessment), in particular the effects on local economy and local employment - we are aware of the difficulties mayotte is facing in several other policy fields after change of status in complying with requirements stemming from full application of the community acquis.
in writing. - in favour. the pca is the first of its kind between the eu and asean countries. it will be a testimony to the rapidly growing importance of eu-indonesian ties and expects it to open a new era in bilateral relations, based on shared principles such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit.
in writing. - in favour. when applying this readmission agreement clause, the eu represented by the commission, should consider the possibility of introducing suspension clauses in the case of gross violations of fundamental rights. the commission should ensure that persons subjected to persecution, torture, inhuman /degrading treatment or punishment in indonesia should not be readmitted. (1) control mechanisms should be activated to guarantee that the fundamental rights of returnees are not undermined when returning and setting in indonesia.
in writing. - against. the verts/ale group voted against readmission agreements, especially those not coupled with visa liberalisation agreements, because we find the evaluation and monitoring of eu readmission agreements inadequate to guarantee full compliance with eu treaties, european and international law concerning fundamental rights and asylum.
in writing. - against. we voted consistently against readmission because full compliance with eu treaties, european and international law concerning fundamental rights and asylum is not guaranteed, especially considering recent reports of push-backs of asylum-seekers at the eu’s land and sea border areas.
in writing. - in favour. taking into account the study ‘democratic scrutiny, transparency, and modalities of vote in the national parliaments of the member states and in the european parliament’ produced at the request of the committee on constitutional affairs, the proposed change to the rules of procedure aims to align parliament’s practice with the best practices in other parliaments of the european union. the proposed amendment will also increase transparency and thus the democratic accountability of members to the electorate and citizens. voters have a right to know how their elected representatives have voted in order to be able to hold them to account.
in writing. against. i am pleased to see that reason has once again prevailed in the perpetual debate on the separation of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings. despite the incomprehensible vehemence with which the socialist rapporteur has defended to the end the new constraints proposed by the european commission in this area, the members of parliament have very much mitigated these new constraints, thus allowing integrated railway companies to continue to manage a railway network while running trains on it. the european parliament voted against the commission's obsession. a straightforward rejection of the legislative proposal as a whole would have been even clearer. in other words, this case has put at risk public transport service contracts at regional level. that is why we voted against this report, despite the progress achieved.
in writing. - the liberalization of the railway sector in europe is not merely a wish but a necessity. we therefore support the adoption of a package of rules which will stimulate competition in the movement of passengers by this means of communication, improving the quality of service and thus reducing the fragmentation within the internal market. the amendments adopted will oblige member states to establish a number of efficiency criteria such as punctuality, frequency of service, consumer satisfaction or the quality of trains. the new legislation will also allow member states to choose between a single company that is both railway operator and infrastructure manager or to opt for a separation of functions into two separate companies.
in writing. - the main objective of the european union's transport policy is to create an internal transport market which contributes to a high degree of competitiveness and to the harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of economic activities. the national services for the transport of goods are already liberalized, but not those for passengers. it is estimated that 90% of passenger services are covered by public service obligations, which gives administrations a wide margin for public service contracts or direct awards. i support the general principles of the proposal and welcome the broad lines, which are part of the wider framework of the fourth railway package.
in writing. against. i am pleased to see that reason has once again prevailed in the perpetual debate on the separation of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings. despite the incomprehensible vehemence with which the socialist rapporteur has defended to the end the new constraints proposed by the european commission in this area, the members of parliament have very much mitigated these new constraints, thus allowing integrated railway companies to continue to manage a railway network while running trains on it. the european parliament voted against the commission's obsession. a straightforward rejection of the legislative proposal as a whole would have been even clearer. in other words, this case has put at risk public transport service contracts at regional level. that is why we voted against this report, despite the progress achieved.
in writing. - as regards the minimum service during strike days, i believe that it is the legislation of the states which should regulate this point in such a way that the legitimate interests of the users of the service are never neglected.
in writing. - i believe that this report is an important step towards european typeapproval of railway technical systems, which will facilitate rail transport in the union by eliminating the need for approval in each of the member states of rolling stock and other technical systems.
in writing. - in favour. more than 8 billion journeys a year are made by rail in europe, and 10 % of goods are transported by rail freight. the sector is responsible for a turnover of eur 73 billion, generating eur 13 billion of revenue and supporting 800 000 jobs. in its white paper entitled ‘roadmap to a single european transport area – towards a competitive and resource efficient transport system’, the commission sets out its belief that, by 2050, more than half of medium-distance passenger and freight transport will be by rail. as well as improving choice for users and opportunities for entrepreneurs, this objective is essential if, by 2050, we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20 % and co2 emissions by 60 % compared to 1990 levels. by comparing the objectives with the current situation we can see the growth potential in an industry in which european manufacturers are world leaders in technology, particularly when it comes to safety and high speed trains.
in writing. - in favour. the railway environment in the union has been undergoing profound changes, triggered inter alia by the three union railway packages adopted since the early 1990s. the gradual creation of the single european railway area is characterised by a multiplication of actors, increased recourse to subcontractors and more frequent market entries. in this context of higher complexity, rail safety is critically dependent on the interaction between all players, namely railway undertakings, infrastructure managers, the railway industry and safety authorities. safety legislation should take account of these developments and put in place appropriate information, management and emergency procedures and tools.
in writing. - it was more than appropriate to update the existing directives on railway safety and to adapt them to the reality of the new systems and regulations in existence today. these provisions for the future of a sector as vital and necessary for intra-european mobility as rail will be directly reflected in the subsequent safety certificates issued by the european railway agency (era). closely linked to the interoperability directive, the commitments concerned the issue of the role of the afe as a competent authority to issue the individual safety certificates (depending on the area of use in any case). the responsibilities and relationship between the tsa and the national safety authorities should also be defined and clarified, as well as practical aspects such as the use of languages, or the establishment of an ad hoc culture to facilitate the communication of safety risks by staff.
in writing. - in favour. in the last decade, the eu railway market has witnessed profound changes, gradually introduced by three legislative ‘railway packages’ aimed at opening up national markets and making railways more competitive and interoperable at the eu level, while, at the same time, maintaining a high level of safety. however, the modal share of rail in intra-eu transport has remained modest. despite these three legislative packages, the european railway sector still faces problems such as barriers to competition, discrimination and the lack of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment. today, too many different national rules exist, with procedures and standards that lack transparency.
in writing. - in favour. while on the one hand the whole aviation sector should be covered by this regulation, its obligations should also be proportionate to the field of activity and complexity of the individual aircraft. accordingly, occurrences involving a non-complex aircraft will be collected in accordance with this regulation, but will be subject to specific reporting obligations that are more suitable to this kind of aircraft.
in writing. - against. the commission claim that this initiative will contribute to their goal to cut road deaths by half from 2011 to 2020. however, more lives could be saved if speed limits were cut by 10km/h. such a policy measure would also be cheaper, more effective and proportionate given the goal. there are data protection issues as the device must constantly track (but not transmit) vehicle location in order to transmit, in the event of activation, the direction of travel of the vehicle as well as location. in the given climate regarding mass surveillance, the presence of an on-board device which must constantly track but not to transmit the location, is seen as step too far. the ecall-in vehicle system is designed to remain dormant, not connected to the public mobile telecommunications network until it is activated. please also read the attached paper commissioned by imco on data protection aspects of this proposal.
in writing. - in the area of practical functionalities promoting aspects of rapid emergency response, this proposal to introduce the ecall system in all new cars from next year is a step forward, provided certain conditions are met. the application of this technology is clearly capable of saving thousands of lives according to estimates, thanks to the rapid response that is activated to the corresponding emergencies by activating this call. however, it should be borne in mind that these calls, which will obviously be used to retransmit data, will have to be handled in an appropriate manner in accordance with the applicable data protection rules. the compulsory nature of this system and the corresponding costs should not be borne by the citizen, since it must be understood that this is a public service, and therefore, if we refer to the call itself, it must obviously be free of charge.
in writing. - in favour. since the main objective and subject-matter of this proposal is to harmonise national provisions concerning the mentioned areas, the proposal should be based on article 53(1) and article 62 tfeu. the form of a directive is appropriate in order to enable the implementing provisions in the areas covered by this directive, when necessary, to be adjusted to any existing specificities of the particular market and legal system in each member state. this directive should also aim at coordinating national rules concerning the access to the activity of insurance and reinsurance mediation, and is therefore based on article 53(1) tfeu. in addition, since this is a sector offering services across the union, this directive is also based on article 62 tfeu
in writing. - the importance of information for the consumer is fundamental in any case. but if we look at a product like insurance, when it comes to drawing up a contract of this kind, it is clear that clear and accurate information is paramount. misleading information, the so-called 'small print' (the term is often literal and therefore somewhat hidden from many citizens), sales as promotions where only the positive part is underlined, without clearly explaining what risks may or may not be covered by such insurance, etc. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. so that contracts are not given in cryptic language but in accessible language; that they are not given in packages which require unnecessary or superfluous contracting in order to obtain the product one wants and not another; and, above all, that they include clear and precise information on the overall costs which such contracting will ultimately entail. in addition, harmonization will be sought so that this affects and is treated as equally as possible throughout the territory of the union.
in writing. - in favour. the health for growth programme has been allocated an overall financial envelope of eur 446 million over the 2014-2020 period, i.e. over eur 60 million per year. the programme’s scope will be essentially limited to areas in which eu action can bring genuine added value in the healthcare sector. it is fully aligned with the europe 2020 strategy and aims to foster innovation in healthcare, ensure more viable healthcare systems and improve the well-being of eu citizens. the funding proved for the programme supplements a number of healthcare promotion measures financed from the structural funds and the framework programme for research and innovation for 2014-2020. the programme’s budget for this period has been increased by 5.7% in relation to the current period (2007-2013). this funding is potentially available to national authorities, public and private bodies, international organisations and ngos, who may apply for co-funding for initiatives. both the programme’s modus operandi and procedures for granting such funding must be as straightforward as possible to allow the member states and healthcare professionals to put it to the best use.
in writing. - my vote in favour is in response to the need for guidelines for the deployment of telecommunications infrastructure through the connecting europe facility. however, the cut in the telecommunications chapter of the mechanism is not good news. the fact that only 1 billion euro was available has forced a change in the purpose of these guidelines. the main one is the broadband. the delay in europe's deployment requires solutions, as it not only harms the well-being of our citizens in an increasingly digital world, but also affects our competitiveness. according to the commission, a 10% increase in broadband penetration can lead to an increase of 1% or 1.5% of gdp. in the face of budget cuts, states and regions must invest their own resources and create frameworks to attract private investment. it is true that they can use the structural funds or the financial instruments of the mechanism itself. it is about increasing public and private investment in this infrastructure. only then will we be able to meet the digital agenda's broadband coverage and speed targets, and also allow europe to move beyond its competitors.
in writing. - against. while the initiative aimed for the removal of bottlenecks, after the debate in the committee and the negotiations with the council, we consider that this objective has not been reached, the proposal does not reach its targets and can be an obstacle similarly intended for initiatives. the proposal budget is linked to the proposal for a regulation establishing the connecting europe facility (cef) and the initially proposed amount of eur 9.2 billion has been reduced to 1 billion. this does not allow proper investments in good quality and speed infrastructure the targets of infrastructure speeds aim for at least 30mbps but put the requirement that only 1/3 will be at least to speeds above 100mbps. this encourages the investments in low speed infrastructure, thus creating more bottlenecks and driving service prices up by artificially creating scarcity in the market.
mr president, we know the speed and development of the digital age and the increase in public sector websites, which must be adapted to the needs of europeans and provide up-to-date information and services to all equally. however, only 10[nbsp ]% of current european union websites are accessible in accordance with accessibility standards. today, the european union market for website accessibility provides jobs for one million people. it is therefore a priority to enable all people, including people with disabilities, to use websites. i welcome the improvements introduced by the report adopted today: the extension of the scope of the public websites directive to include mobile devices. member states are obliged to train their staff on accessibility requirements. consequently, sanctions may be imposed in the event of non-compliance with the new directive. sanctions are necessary when cuts at the beginning of the crisis affect mainly people with disabilities.
in writing. - currently, less than one third of public websites are accessible, while more than 60%[nbsp ] of the european population access the internet daily. the new legislation will benefit not only the 80 million european citizens with disabilities, but also the 87 million over 65 as well as many citizens without high ict skills. furthermore, the market for web developers (which provides employment for over a million people) will be able to work across the eu in a harmonised internal market and governments will not need to establish alternative means of obtaining information or services due to the inaccessibility of their web pages. i consider this directive, which i have participated in by submitting multiple amendments, to be very positive, as it will not only put an end to this unequal situation, but will also allow the eu to meet its previous political commitments on web accessibility, such as the 2006 riga ministerial declaration, the digital agenda for europe, the european disability strategy 2010-2020 and the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, ratified by the eu in 2011.
in writing. - in favour. information and services are increasingly delivered online in the digital age. the quantity of public and private sector websites is therefore growing rapidly. today, there are already over 761[nbsp ]000 public sector websites offering access to information and services alone. however, currently less than 10[nbsp ]% of websites in the eu are accessible by web-accessibility standards. the eu market for web-accessibility consists of more than 175[nbsp ]000 companies. the turnover generated by the approximately one million people working in the web development industry is estimated at around eur[nbsp ]144 billion. the economic impact for the eu, as well as the large gap that exists with non-accessible websites, makes web-accessibility a lucrative business in the social area with significant potential for growth and inclusiveness. thus, web accessibility can further develop the single market and extensively make services available to all eu citizens. web accessibility is vital as it makes websites usable for all people, including those with disabilities. public sector bodies and any entities providing basic services to the public must adopt the inclusive practice of web accessibility to fulfil their responsibility towards all citizens.
in writing. - in favour. long-term investment is key for economic growth and job creation. without it, crucial projects in the areas of infrastructure, research and development, and innovation cannot be started or carried out successfully. right now almost all european countries are pursuing a policy of fiscal consolidation to get a grip on their debt. while sound fiscal policies serve as the underlying foundation, it is crucial that europe enters a path of sustainable growth that enhances its competitiveness vis-à-vis other global regions and ensures the creation of jobs. financing of the real economy plays a pivotal role in the process, yet currently faces significant obstacles in europe. in times of stressed financial markets, mainly due to the ongoing global financial crisis and the unresolved sovereign debt crisis, europe’s traditionally high reliance on funding through banks has proven to be a major impediment to the intermediation process of allocating funds. not only has high risk aversion dried up the supply of finance, but it also prevents necessary investment from being undertaken and as a result brings the economic recovery process to a standstill.
in writing. - we start from the premise that sexual exploitation of persons, trafficking in human beings and trafficking in women must be tackled with toughness and tenacity, and that this requires the development of common and coordinated policies at european union level. but we do not believe that the philosophy behind the resolution is the right one. we do not believe that the so-called nordic model, which is promoted in the resolution and is based on illegalization and repression, is the most appropriate way of dealing with the issue of prostitution and eliminating the sexual exploitation of people. we think that the nordic model hides prostitution, eliminates it from the public space, but does not eliminate its practice. this creates opaque spaces that can lead to increased sexual exploitation, with greater risk and less protection for those who practice it. we are in favour of a policy of legalising and decriminalising the practice of prostitution, while at the same time promoting the recognition of the labour and social rights of those engaged in it. i therefore call for a vote on the alternative motion tabled by several political groups which, by calling for the fight against sexual exploitation, trafficking and trafficking in women, does not promote the nordic model and leaves the door open to other types of proposals.
in writing. - against. i am one of the co-sponsors of the alternative resolution that favours making a difference between forced prostitution and prostitution resulting from individual choice. forced prostitution, human trafficking and sexual exploitation need to be combated by all means necessary. but sex workers who choose to do this work need to be offered healthcare, protection, empowerment and the chance to do their work legally, while all who make the individual choice to leave prostitution need to be offered all social and educational opportunities to do so. the meps who support the alternative resolution are convinced that this is the best way to ensure sex workers get the protection and assistance they need, and to ensure victims of forced prostitution and trafficking feel they can report to the police. criminalising sex work will have the opposite effect. it adds to the social stigma of sex workers and forces them to go underground, making them more vulnerable to violence and exploitation instead of less. criminalising also makes the threshold for victims of trafficking and exploitation to report to the police even higher and means less access for sex workers to healthcare and contraceptives, making them more vulnerable to sexually transmitted diseases.
in writing. - without prejudice to policies against trafficking and sexual crime, the possibility of establishing a regulatory framework for the practice of prostitution should be considered, so that those men and women who freely and without coercion decide to engage in prostitution can do so with full legal certainty, with the necessary health and hygiene guarantees and with a clear statute containing the appropriate rights and obligations.
in writing. - in favour. countries with a long history of mineral imports, such as the united states, japan and european countries, are experiencing growing competition over access to and security of supply of strategic mineral resources. this situation offers developing countries the opportunity to capitalise on their natural resource endowments. while the world’s unprecedented demand for minerals and other natural resources represents a unique chance to enable mining to contribute to sustainable development, it also poses major challenges for developing countries. the exploitation of high-value natural resources, including oil, gas, minerals and timber, is a major source of conflicts around the world, especially in a context where increasing competition over diminishing renewable resources, such as land and water, is on the rise. this is being further aggravated by environmental degradation, population growth and climate change. the mismanagement of land and natural resources is contributing to new conflicts and obstructing the peaceful resolution of existing ones.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, honourable members, it has been not even a month since i last stood here. we have all followed the tragic developments unfolding before our eyes in the intervening period. what i retain is a sense of immense sorrow over the high numbers of dead and wounded. i wish to express our sympathy and condolences to the families of all those who have fallen victim to what have been unprecedented levels of violence, provocation and indiscriminate use of force in ukraine during the past few weeks. during my last visit to kiev, i visited two hospitals to show solidarity with the injured people. irrespective of which side they were on, they were suffering because of the actions or non-actions of politicians. as president barroso said in this house yesterday, the winds of change are knocking again at ukraine’s doors; the will of the people must prevail. those who violated fundamental rights are to be brought to justice. justice should be fair and without revenge, fully in line with the european convention on human rights and the case[nbsp ]law of the european court of human rights. this tragedy puts an even greater responsibility on all involved to make things work now in ukraine. it places greater responsibility on the new ukrainian government – interim and beyond – to deliver the changes the people have asked and fought for. it places greater responsibility, too, on the european union to extend all our support and expertise to ensure that these changes are put on solid ground and will be sustainable. this joint european effort has been a good example of european foreign policy in action, and of intensive and fruitful interaction with the european parliament. as you know, baroness ashton and i have maintained a quasi-permanent presence in kiev since the start of the crisis. last week, the foreign ministers of germany, france and poland took on the task of representing us, at the very moment of the deadliest clashes since the outbreak of the crisis. in parallel, the remaining foreign ministers were meeting in brussels and maintaining regular contact with our colleagues on the ground. we adopted strongly worded council conclusions introducing targeted sanctions. meanwhile, our three colleagues facilitated talks between the president and the opposition in kiev, transmitting the clear and unequivocal messages from the european union. a multi-party delegation from this house, led by the chair of the committee on foreign affairs, elmar[nbsp ]brok, visited kiev over last weekend to meet with counterparts in the verkhovna rada and other stakeholders. it is now important that all sides continue engaging in a meaningful dialogue to fulfil the aspirations of the ukrainian people. we expect everyone in ukraine to behave responsibly and to protect the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the country. due respect for its regional, cultural and linguistic diversity is also of the utmost importance. we need a lasting solution to the political crisis. elements of that solution are clear, and were outlined in the agreement of 21[nbsp ]february. first, a comprehensive constitutional reform to be started immediately and completed by september, drawing substantially on relevant expertise of the venice commission; second, the formation of a new inclusive government; and third, ensuring the conditions for free and fair elections, also in close cooperation with the venice commission and with the organisation for security and cooperation in europe. i want to underline the importance of the verkhovna rada as a legitimate political institution. it is also crucial that the new administration is inclusive, politically, geographically and in terms of stakeholder participation. as i said earlier, issues such as the investigation of major cases of violence, judicial reform and police reform will have to be addressed in order to heal the wounds of the last days, months and years, and to bring the country forward. we are ready to step in where requested to do so, in close cooperation with our international partners. i welcome the engagement of the council of europe, including commissioner for human rights muižnieks’ recent preliminary report, following his visit to kiev, which focuses on the need to prevent further violence and to ensure that human rights violations are investigated. i also strongly hope that an international advisory panel will start work soon. our offer of political association and economic integration remains on the table and, as stated in our february foreign affairs council conclusions, the association agreement/ deep and comprehensive free trade agreement does not constitute the final goal in eu-ukraine cooperation. we are ready to work promptly with a future ukrainian government committed to economic and political reforms, and to step in with assistance. we are working on the best inclusive platform for international coordination to provide sustainable economic and financial support, including all international partners, to help in addressing the challenges the country faces. baroness ashton was in kiev on monday and tuesday for talks with all the stakeholders present and to engage in the inclusive political process. her visit was warmly welcomed by interlocutors from all political factions and by representatives of maidan. she underlined the need to restore trust in the institutions and reiterated the european union’s offer of help. all partners responded positively to that offer. while in kiev she also met with yulia tymoshenko, released from prison after two-and-a-half years of detention. i spoke to ms[nbsp ]tymoshenko by phone shortly after her release, underlining the importance of her health recovery. her release was an important step forward, given our long-standing concerns about selective justice in ukraine. let me once again thank parliament for its immense efforts on this issue, and let me commend, in particular, the outstanding work done over a sustained period by pat cox and alexander kwaśniewski. before concluding, allow me to say a few words about russia. ukraine needs russia, and russia needs ukraine. russia has a chance to become part of the effort to bring stability and prosperity back to ukraine, including being part of the coordinated international effort to help ukraine address its economic challenges. this will require recognition of the sovereign right of the ukrainian people to make their own choices about their future. those choices are about domestic politics just as much as they are about foreign policy. russia can only gain from ukraine’s success, and it risks losing heavily if ukraine fails. we are ready to work very closely with russia, the neighbour of our neighbour, to ensure it plays a constructive role in ukraine’s future – the future of a neighbour with whom russia has traditional ties, which we support. madam president, honourable members, in the light of the challenges and the need for a continued coherent european policy on ukraine, i congratulate you for organising today’s debate. the european parliament’s involvement has been very important for all in ukraine who have been striving for a stable, prosperous and democratic future.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the dramatic and dizzying events of the weekend, the first thing that must be done is to pay tribute to the courage and civic courage of the ukrainian people, who have paid a very high price for opening the road to freedom. and in this process, madam president, i have to say that the people of ukraine have not been alone, they have been accompanied by the european parliament. many members have been outstanding in this endeavour, but i would like to symbolise this in the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, mr elmar brok. what was being discussed in ukraine, madam president, was not the credibility of the european neighbourhood policy; it was not a struggle or a dispute between the west and russia over an area of influence; it was, above all and fundamentally, the right of a people to determine freely and sovereignly its own destiny. but as so often happens, it is harder to consolidate, preserve and maintain the unyielding goal of freedom than to shake off the yoke of tyranny. it has taken three months to remove president yanukovych, but it is true that the stability of the country, the transition process and economic recovery will take much longer. that is why the european union, commissioner, must firmly support ukraine, first of all through the association agreement; it must support the political transition process by supporting the electoral process for the elections on 25 may; it must seriously consider a visa-free policy and, as you rightly said, commissioner, it must clearly stand for the freedom, independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country. the european union must respond urgently to the dramatic appeal made to us in kiev last monday by the president-in-office and prime minister-designate, given the gravity of the economic problems. the european union, commissioner, must lead an international donor conference, with the united states, russia, the international monetary fund, japan, canada and other major players. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that the european union must bet on the dividends of peace, understanding, harmony and reconciliation in that great country which is ukraine, whose citizens have set an example for the whole world.
mr president, events are happening so fast in ukraine that what may seem clear today may not be so tomorrow. but the important thing is that the yanukovych regime has fallen and with it the violence that bled kiev last week has ended. mrs timoshenko has finally been released and there will be free elections on 25 may. now, as change begins, ukraine needs an inclusive interim government with broad support. it is a complex and diverse country at a delicate moment: the ground must be prepared for the next elections on 25 may. and after that, it will also require broad consensus - as in any transition process. we must help ukraine and ukrainians to shape their future. we must have a serious dialogue with their authorities and their political and social leaders. the european union must stand for the sovereignty, unity, independence and territorial integrity of ukraine, as well as for the freedom and prosperity of the ukrainian people. we europeans must have a united position on ukraine and also on russia. for the union, in my view, ukraine should not be the cause of a geopolitical confrontation with russia; we are not looking for confrontation with russia, but for areas of understanding. but russia must not perceive our assistance to ukraine as interference or appropriation. the zones of influence are a thing of the past, they are totally anachronistic. on the other hand, we want the best possible relationship between ukraine and russia, but only on the basis of the free decision of the ukrainian people. ukraine must be what the ukrainians want. i do not think that russia would be interested in a serious source of instability, tension and conflict on its border. i hope, again, that russia is not interested. we europeans in the union are in favour of prosperous, stable neighbours whose people enjoy fundamental freedoms. let russia think the same!
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, just before our plenary meeting i had a brief conversation with the high representative and she sends her best regards to all of you. her priority now, after coming back from kiev, is to work on a number of the priorities set, working again with the authorities through the foreign ministers or going back to ukraine again. she mentioned four things which she is focusing on at the moment. the first is the work of verkhovna rada. she emphasised the legitimacy of that institution and the importance of it working properly. working properly is an important phrase, because i think we all understand the emergency and urgency under which this institution is working. but at the same time we all – and the debate has shown this – want to see ukraine adopting legislation which is actually in line with the commitment and obligations of ukraine stemming from ukraine’s membership in the council of europe. and the council of europe – and i made this point in my initial statement – is ready to provide experts, not only on the ground, but actually as a part of the administration of the rada, making sure that any important piece of legislation being adopted is indeed in line with those commitments and obligations. the second issue which cathy ashton has underlined is how important it is now for all the stakeholders in that inclusive process to define priorities and to define what is the most important and how important it is, in the light of that, to establish inclusive government as soon as possible, to have an action plan for this government in place, and to have a partner for us. the third point is that cathy ashton is focusing very much on the economic and financial package we have been talking about. she is not only talking continuously to her international partners, but she is also working within the commission with my colleagues concerning ukraine’s short-term and medium-term needs. we hope very much that there will soon be an ecofin – and also an imf – mission to ukraine and that they will talk to the ukrainian authorities in order to see the real needs and the requirements of the ukrainian finances and economy. we are making it absolutely clear that, as far as the european union is concerned – but also as a part of the larger international efforts – we will do our utmost to step up to this challenge. the first point cathy ashton emphasised concerned the territorial integrity of ukraine. she made it very clear that she is in continuous contact with foreign minister lavrov and that she intends to see him again next week to continue the discussion about how all of us can deliver on the letter and spirit of the budapest memorandum of 1994. now in the past i have myself met representatives from the crimean authorities and we have launched specific programmes to support their specific needs. we made it clear – and let me repeat this on this occasion – that we are ready to strengthen that interaction with the crimea and crimean representatives for the benefit of the people living in that region. while there we always raise the issues of the crimean tatars. we are in close contact with them, and in fact last autumn helped to organise a big event for the first time together with the representatives of the crimean tatar authorities. we will continue to work in that direction, making sure that the rights of the crimean tatars are secured. so cathy ashton’s assessment is that the situation is calm but fragile. she is determined to lead the efforts of the european union and also to coordinate and work together with other international stakeholders to bring normalcy to ukraine. you asked a number of other questions and i will, if i may, very briefly address just three of them. to answer the very last question, by mr[nbsp ]stoyanov, i am not aware of any such a link as the one you referred to. turning to ms[nbsp ]morvai, we have a plan and actually we have already been delivering on that plan for some time in our discussions through the relevant cooperation committee, and we have established the structure of cooperation with ukraine. we are focusing our attention on the rights of the national minorities and the plan is to help the ukrainians to adopt legislation which would gradually be compatible with our legislation in that field, and not only to adopt the legislation but also to implement it. i hope very much that the association agreement, once it has been signed and when it has been implemented, will further strengthen our capacity in this regard. mr[nbsp ]arlacchi wondered why we need two integration projects in europe. i am not sure that i am the right person to answer this question, but i will make the following point. the important thing is to ensure that ideally you have the same value and principle base, or at least a regulatory framework which is compatible, so that you could build this free trade area from lisbon to vladivostok, something to which the european union is committed and where we see the association agreement as an integral part of that effort. you also asked about the svoboda party. from my own experience, i can tell you that they have played an important role in parliamentary opposition in the last couple of years. i have to say clearly in this house that, on the european union agenda, they were among those who supported the relevant european legislation. i have heard the representatives and the chairman of the party state that they are clearly committed to our shared values. i can assure this house that we will be judging them and the whole government by their deeds. if i may, in conclusion, i would like to say exactly this: this debate has once more shown the importance of ukraine for all of us in europe. i would like to add one final message, precisely on the interest shown in ukraine today: let us not forget the country tomorrow. i have welcomed the coherent and unified european effort over the past weeks and months. we have created expectations. we should be ready to live up to these expectations and not let the ukrainians down. once the cameras are gone from the streets of kiev and ukraine is no longer in the evening news, we should continue our engagement and not forget our promises and commitments. history will judge us not by the promises we make, but the promises we keep. we expect the people in ukraine to be united and clear as to what kind of country they want. i call on this house, when you vote on the resolution tomorrow, to provide them with an example of a clear and united message.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 27 february 2014. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in iraq (2014/2565 ((rsp)). the vice-president will be represented by the presidency of the council.
mr president, once again we have to pay attention to iraq in this house, because important things are happening in that country. on the one hand, i would mention the progress in the implementation of the association and cooperation agreement between the european union and iraq. the first eu-iraq cooperation council took place on 20 january. there are many areas of mutual interest in which we need to make progress, including, of course, what we would call institutional strengthening or nation building, good governance and respect for human rights. we cannot forget iraq. but, along with it, the negative part. in recent months, iraq has returned to the present because of the serious deterioration of its security and the significant terrorist challenge. religious violence and terrorism linked to al qaeda are causing a high number of casualties. the authorities must prevent this bloodshed, which already last year i believe reached a figure of about 9,000 victims. iraq is also suffering from the effects of the syrian crisis, as has already been said. more than 200,000 syrians have been displaced to iraq and we need to continue to help these displaced populations. parliamentary elections will be held on 30 april. we must help to ensure that these elections are transparent and credible and that they take place in a democratic and peaceful manner. all the iraqi authorities, national and regional, should be reminded that the european union is in favour of preserving the unity and territorial integrity of the country. the disruptive trends are worryingly 'increasingly powerful'. the disintegration of iraq would also have very destabilising effects on the whole region, which is already subject - as we all know - to multiple tensions and conflicts.
mr president, the security situation in iraq is growing more precarious by the day. since major-general al-karawi was killed in the anbar province last december, violence in the region has peaked with clashes between government forces and isil. fallujah is under siege, cut off from humanitarian supplies, and its residents labelled terrorists by their own prime minister, which is ludicrous. and it is not just sunnis who are targeted but other minorities too. in camp liberty members of the iranian resistance, whose asylum-seeker status has now been officially recognised by the united states in addition to the european union, live at the mercy of prime minister al-maliki and those who control him from tehran. we know that a new massacre is being planned by prime minister al-maliki in camp liberty. heat-oriented missiles have been transported to baghdad by iranian quds forces in collaboration with prime minister al-maliki. we know it. the high representative knows it and i suppose that the president of the council also knows. inaction or soft diplomacy is not an option when three thousand men and women are under deadly threat. it is time for the high representative and the member states to do something effective for once. (applause)
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to deliver this answer on behalf of my colleague, commissioner damanaki, who unfortunately was not able to attend today’s sitting. first i would like to thank mr wałęsa for drawing attention to these important questions. let me underline the sensitivity of this important fishery-related issue. it concerns delicate aspects of international law and, more importantly, has a bearing on our relations with norway which, at present and historically, has been our most important partner in fisheries and also other marine-related, including arctic, issues. it has been a consistent position of the european union that the european union member states which are party to the 1920 treaty of paris relating to spitsbergen (svalbard) enjoy the same access rights as other parties to that treaty. as regards fishery management measures, acceptance by the european union of fishery regulations proposed by norway pertaining to the waters around svalbard has been conditional on the regulations being applied in a non-discriminatory manner, based on scientific advice, and respected by all interested parties. with regard to questions 2, 3 and 4 formulated by the honourable member of the european parliament, there is no established european union position on those yet. the implications of the newly drawn ‘murmansk line’ for fisheries in the waters in question are still being considered within different commission departments. finally, the commission is unaware of the procedures by which the norway-russian federation joint fisheries commission operates. the joint fisheries commission is a bilateral arrangement. it is not classified as a regional fisheries management arrangement and the commission does not contemplate participating in its meetings. the commission is unaware of any appropriation of greenland halibut or redfish quotas in the area, so it has no opinion on this matter.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, i would like to congratulate mr wałęsa on his initiative to ensure that our fishing rights in svalbard are not forgotten. this is a matter that has been dragging on for too long and remains unclear, as we have seen tonight. i would like to ask the commission whether in the recent negotiations for the revision of the fisheries agreement with norway, the community negotiator has engaged in any kind of conversation or negotiation to improve the conditions for by-catch of haddock in svalbard and to get rid of norwegian interference in the fishing of our cod quotas in exchange for - and i stress this - the european union giving up its claim to other fishing rights. it is a bigger issue, because, however welcome these improvements may be, other very important rights for other fleets would be left unfulfilled. since both the member states concerned and the commission itself have so far shared the view that norway's interpretation of the paris treaty and the consequences of the creation of the fisheries protection area are contrary to international law and the law of the sea, i would like to know where this initiative to negotiate the future of our quotas in svalbard comes from, how far the terms of this offer go, whether the commission has discussed this with the member states beforehand and whether it has a mandate to conduct such negotiations. i would remind you that norway's uncompromising position was based on the fact that the commission is not a signatory to the paris treaty and would therefore only negotiate with the member states, which the commission in turn prevents from negotiating quotas bilaterally, considering that this is its exclusive competence. i would therefore like the commission to answer all these questions which have recently arisen in the last negotiations with norway and have caused a great deal of consternation both in the member states and in the community fisheries sector.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, honourable members, the news coming out of venezuela continues to be a cause for alarm. we are deeply concerned by the continuing unrest and lament the serious violent incidents that have taken place over the past weeks. official sources refer to at least 13[nbsp ]deaths and hundreds of people injured. the high representative/vice-president cathy ashton has already issued two statements where she has been very clear: we reject all acts of violence and intolerance from all sides. we note that the inter-american court of human rights has referred to the allegedly disproportionate use of force on the part of state security agents, while the office of the un high commissioner for human rights has pointed to reported attacks on demonstrators by armed groups. this violence must cease immediately. it is incumbent on the public authorities to maintain public order. we take note of president maduro’s statement that his government would not tolerate violence from his supporters and the security forces, and we hope he will prove his words in deeds. political intolerance and continuous public statements critical of one or the other side can only add tension to the political discourse and further divide society. the eu and latin america and the caribbean share a strategic bi-regional partnership, where the community of latin american and caribbean states is the eu’s interlocutor. at the eu-celac summit in santiago in 2012, the eu and venezuela, together with all other countries in the region, reaffirmed their commitment to the universality and indivisibility of human rights. we are alarmed about the detention of students and political leaders including leopoldo lópez, the leader of the social democratic party, voluntad popular. reputable international civil society organisations have indicated that they have not seen any evidence to substantiate these charges. we join the office of the un high commissioner for human rights in calling upon the relevant authorities to ensure that the accusations brought against those detained are impartially investigated, to decide on the lawfulness of their detention, or to order their release. this house and the eu as a whole have always stood for the right to peaceful freedom of expression. the rights of freedom of association, of assembly and of expression are crucial. demonstrations in venezuela started two weeks ago as students complained about high crime rates and a lack of security in universities. thousands of other venezuelans have since joined in, demonstrating against high inflation and the shortage of basic goods. but many supporters of the government are also out on the streets of caracas. nobody should be detained for exercising their right to freedom of speech and assembly. it is essential that journalists and broadcasters be allowed to exercise their profession freely. reputable civil society organisations have reported arbitrary acts of censorship. the internet company twitter has reported that access to photos had been blocked in venezuela. foreign tv news stations have been taken off the air. citizens and politicians must be allowed to express their views freely in the media. venezuela faces major challenges: economic difficulties; an official rate of inflation of 56%; and record levels of crime and insecurity. it is up to venezuela to tackle these issues. the framework for a comprehensive dialogue aimed at solving these issues should be agreed with the opposition. when president maduro took office as president last year, he began his inauguration speech by saying that he wanted to govern for all venezuelans. in saying that he wanted to extend a hand to build an inclusive nation for everybody, president maduro acknowledged that almost half of the voters had voted for the opposition candidate; those voters should be allowed a voice in public debate. all venezuelans have the right to decide how their country should be managed. we call upon the government to reach out to all segments of venezuelan society. this house will surely support a call for the plurality of public opinion.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we discussed in this house the dramatic events in ukraine, and ukraine has many supporters in this house, including myself. but what about venezuela, commissioner? venezuela is suffering from a very worrying spiral of violence in the streets as a consequence of years of confrontational politics and lack of dialogue. you have referred to the data: an annual rate of violence of 20,000 homicides; a disastrous exchange rate policy which has produced, as you have said, 53% inflation and a forecast of 100% for this year; an intolerable food shortage in one of the richest energy-producing countries in the world; and, more seriously, a deterioration in the human rights situation in the country which has called for the attention of this parliament on countless occasions. we have seen young students murdered in the streets; the dramatic images of the death of génesis carmona; we have seen an opposition leader go to prison; we have seen opposition politicians brutally assaulted in parliament maria corina machado, manuel rosales; and we have seen you said it, commissioner, media closed, several newspapers unable to function because they do not have permission to import the press, and television channels such as radio caracas televisión, cnn 24 hours or ntn 24 hours, the colombian channel that have also had to close. venezuela is a country, mr president, that is going backwards, not forward. i am not saying this: nobel prize winner mario vargas llosa said it. it is a country where these events denigrate democracy. i'm not saying this: it was said by the two-time president of costa rica and nobel peace prize winner oscar arias. the other day, mr president, we were debating in this house and we were remembering the civic courage of the citizens of ukraine. on monday, as i was returning from kiev, i was reading an article by a very prestigious theologian, who said that there is a courage of speech, a courage of action, a courage for conviction and also a courage for opinion; a courage of thought and a courage for truth. i believe that these young students who demonstrate in the streets, these politicians who take to the streets to demand a better venezuela and these independent journalists are characterized, precisely, by that exercise of courage. they do so, mr president, as people who are doing what a brave man, oswaldo payá, said in this house when he received the sakharov prize: calling for dialogue, without hatred in their hearts, but certainly not willing to be dominated by fear.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, as previous speakers have said, venezuela is currently plunging into a well of uncertainty, violence and clashes, which have not ceased to be worrying, not because they have been chronic for the last fifteen years. there have been peaceful demonstrations as a result of the shortage of all basic necessities, which have led to brutal repression by the forces under the orders of the government, with a worrying number of dead, wounded and detained. this means that this parliament cannot remain indifferent to such an attack on a peaceful population that wants the best for its country and knows that it can have it because it is a rich country. rich in oil which would be the source of its development if it were not for the fact that the government is dedicated to giving it away to friendly countries to serve as guardians of its security. we should also mention the families who invite us, who want us to have a word for their loved ones and to be able to speak for them and defend them here. they sometimes think that the european parliament is too far away to adopt measures that are useful to them because they have no other instrument than ours: the one that we democrats want to have and want to do. there is a major interference in venezuela by cuban agents there are thirty thousand cuban agents, led by ramiro valdés who are destabilizing that country. we have to act - and venezuelans should realize that we are at their side - to do everything possible so that venezuela is better, more peaceful and more stable.
blue card question. what is it? mr president, it is very simple. is it true or not that there is a lot of violence in caracas and that it is encouraged by the maduro government?
mr president, when the venezuelan people suffer, so do the canarian people. i regret and strongly reject the deaths of so many innocent people and i would like to highlight today, precisely because of its canarian origin, the murder of wilmer carvallo. my condolences to the families of all the victims. from the canary islands, from europe, we are watching with extreme concern what is happening in venezuela. the venezuelan people want to live in peace and freedom, without violence and without threats. and they have a right to it. just as they have the right to buy basic food, to walk the streets without fear of being killed, of being persecuted for their ideas or imprisoned for demonstrating. it is the duty of the government to guarantee all these constitutionally recognised rights, and it cannot curtail them with the impunity with which it is unfortunately doing so. the european union cannot and must not look the other way while this is happening. the venezuelan people expect our support and we cannot let them down.
mr president, let me first of all greet the venezuelan citizens who are with us in this gallery today and welcome them from the european parliament. believe me, there are many of us who are especially hurt by what is happening in that great country that is venezuela. unfortunately, venezuela is today experiencing a dramatic situation, i would say an international emergency. the chavista government of maduro is producing a genocide in venezuela, making its people go through hunger and hardships. this government does not allow freedom of expression, persecuting citizens who oppose and media outlets critical of this government. and the worst thing, your honours, is that this government, called revolutionary and bolivarian, is murdering its people. maduro and his government are responsible for these atrocities. and for all this, the european parliament must condemn the maduro government for the tragedies it is causing and support the venezuelan people who are demanding justice: democracy and freedom for venezuela.
mr president, the situation in venezuela is serious. it generates deaths that we condemn and regret. my sympathies to the victims. the government is conducting harsh operations to suppress dissent and attacks on freedom of expression and the press which, as totalitarian deviations, must cease. a politically polarized country needs mediation. to defuse this powder keg requires verbal disarmament and a sincere and permanent dialogue between the highest representatives of the government and the opposition to find a peaceful, democratic and constitutional way out of the current situation. the oas could intervene by encouraging venezuela to return to the american convention on human rights and to apply the inter-american democratic charter. and europe can and must also get involved, so as not to leave venezuelan society alone. the situation, if left unchecked, leads to a heartbreaking confrontation and social and economic chaos. a threat that cannot be met by inaction.
mr president, i am overwhelmed by the demagogy and the falsehoods i am hearing this morning here. in 2013 there were elections in venezuela: municipal, legislative, presidential, regional. all those elections have been won democratically by the current government of venezuela. the result of these elections must be respected democratically. in the face of this respect, what we see is an attempt to seek, with tension and destabilization, what the ballot boxes, the votes, have not given. an attempt is being made to overthrow the current government of venezuela ―democratic― in a state of law, with a constitution with separation of powers and with freedoms of all kinds. it is a matter of reproducing the institutional blows of honduras, of paraguay and, why not, of arriving at the situation of egypt today; a situation of obvious dictatorship. it is about avoiding the dialogue that the current government of venezuela is promoting. the frivolity with which the present government is accused is meaningless; neither the oas, nor celac, nor unasur, nor mercosur accuse, in the way that is being done here today, the government...
mr president, since the beginning of the year, and especially during the month of february, there have been 25 storms of wind, rain and sea on the northern coast of spain, with maximum severity warnings for coastal phenomena in galicia, asturias, the basque country and cantabria. the virulence of all these storms has caused extensive damage in all these regions, especially in the maritime public domain on land - mainly in ports and beaches. infrastructure of all kinds - roads, city roads, boats, dams, promenades, shops, homes - has also been damaged, and there have been flight cancellations and damage to the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors. in the face of this bleak picture, the spanish government has responded immediately by approving, a few days after the disaster, a royal decree providing 44 million euros to enable the damaged areas to return to normalcy and also includes aid to the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors. i am the rapporteur, mr president, on the new solidarity fund regulation which we are negotiating in the tripartite dialogue phase and i would like the regions of spain to have their regional authorities and the spanish government close by, and i would like them to have the european union close by as well. the face of solidarity has to be seen at this time.
mr president, thank you for taking up my request for an urgent debate. thank you to comrade irigoyen for helping to promote it. the wind is communal, the tides are communal. they have devastated the atlantic arc and the asturian coast, where i met with the victims of the fishing, agriculture, tourism and communications sectors. the situation is very difficult. we take a broad approach to conditions that demand it in the atlantic arc. the community's sympathy in the form of compensation must reach these suffering europeans. and, eye! when we talk about subsidiarity, we mean greater involvement of the states in aid lines and a presence close to tragic events.
mr president, as you have said, commissioner, in view of the loss of life and the material damage, the european solidarity fund must be activated. the member states have asked for it, but let us not allow bureaucracy to prevent us from receiving aid and solidarity as quickly as possible. many regions of europe have suffered. in my country too. galicia, asturias, cantabria and the basque country have suffered material damage linked to loss of human life, in addition to serious material damage such as the paralysis of the fishing fleet and losses in agriculture. we in this parliament call on the european commission to provide urgent financial and technical assistance through the solidarity fund. i regret that the council's lack of commitment and political will has cut this necessary fund, which parliament had called for to be increased, in half. commissioner, in view of the loss of their homes and businesses, the commission needs to speed up the damage assessment and make a flexible interpretation of the economic damage threshold, to ensure that aid reaches those affected. urgent, sufficient and united response to mitigate losses
mr president, the european union is made up of millions of individual stories, of successes and failures. i have worked for many years in the european parliament - on the community budget - and i was involved in setting up the solidarity fund. i know perfectly well how important it is for major catastrophes. but in small solidarity, when water or fire causes economic damage that does not reach the minimum threshold, the solidarity fund is not present. in my region, asturias, fishing ports, promenades, small tourist businesses, beaches and even the only museum in europe dedicated to the giant squid have been damaged. the spanish government, through the coastal plan, adequately covers individual damages. but in this little solidarity, i ask myself: where do the asturians see the presence of the european union?
mr president, the damage caused by the storm that hit the cantabrian coast in december and january was considerable. specifically, we are talking about 150 million euros, plus the stop in business opening and the loss of wildlife. in my region, cantabria, it is estimated to be about 5 million euros. the regional government of ignacio diego took refuge in its budget cuts to not attend to those affected. "no money", he said. the spanish government, for its part, took fifteen days after the storm to approve a small amount of aid to alleviate the damage caused on the north coast. so, since spain is not responding, it will be europe again that will save the people's party from having water up its neck, through the solidarity fund. it is time for the spanish government to stop reacting to the limit and start acting with well-funded plans at national and regional level in flood prevention!
mr president, the string of heavy storms of wind and rain over the last two months has seriously affected my autonomous community, galicia, including the loss of human lives. the fisheries sector has suffered major damage, including shellfish; farmers and livestock farmers have been harmed; ports, roads, country roads, sea lanes and beaches have also been damaged by these persistent wind and sea storms. i regret that in this house lies are told, not the truth. the spanish government has indeed responded. it responded even when there were still storms, and on the 21st of this month a royal decree-law was passed, mentioned by comrade rosa estaràs, to repair damage caused to the atlantic facade and the cantabrian coast. regional and local authorities are also taking action and reacting. i would like to send a message of solidarity from the european parliament to the people affected and i would also like - i think it is time - to send a message of support to the rapporteur, mrs estaràs, who is taking part in the trilogue these days on the amendment of the regulation governing the solidarity fund, which was set up 11 years ago. the existing rigidities and restrictive formulas must be overcome and the fund must be better used in the event of regional disasters.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the visa policy is not restricted to the member states, and that the member states are not obliged to take any measures to ensure that the visa policy is not restricted to the member states. in recent times, a very large number of cases have been dealt with in this area: the three amendments to regulation (ec) no 539/2001, the reports by mrs gabriel and mrs fajon, which will be voted on today, and the report by mr díaz de mera. in addition, we have dealt with important visa facilitation and readmission agreements. the processing of all these dossiers, and the discussions around them, make it clear that we need to take a global view of visa policy, from as wide a panorama as possible, not to stick to the specific dossier. and it is in this context that, in the evaluation of the stockholm programme - which we have also undertaken in parliament - we have incorporated the future of visa policy in order to aspire to a truly common policy, a visa policy of the european union. and i stress the common word, so that it becomes a common policy, of a higher level of harmonization. so we note with regret that the commission continues to postpone the evaluation of the visa code and the questions arising from its implementation, and here we put the following questions to the commission. firstly, we would like to know how the commission views the current situation and whether visa policy can be further and better harmonised. we would like to know what the commission's view is on how visa policy relates to other european policies and in general to the area of freedom, security and justice. secondly, we want to know the commission's assessment of the current consular coverage and access to visa procedures and the possibility of moving towards some sort of european consulate. thirdly, we would like to start a debate which reconciles two extremes: on the one hand, a growing demand for visa-free travel for an increasing number of countries and, on the other, an increase in so-called security measures for third-country nationals who are not subject to the visa requirement. because we have to look at the two trends together and think about a policy strategy that integrates them. finally, it is up to a parliament whose powers have been significantly increased by the treaty of lisbon to have the best information available to us, and here i would like to refer to two aspects which have to do with the right of this parliament to information. firstly, the information due to parliament on the negotiations for international agreements, many of which deal with visas. and the treaty is clear on that. article 218 (10) requires that parliament be immediately and fully informed of all stages of the procedure for a negotiation with such content. and so we in the libe committee ask the commission and the council to ensure that this is actually put into practice. we are ready to discuss the possibilities for giving practical effect to this mandate, but it must be fulfilled. the second aspect is the intention, mentioned at the end of the resolution we are presenting today, to set up a contact group on visa policy in the libe committee and, in particular, the express invitation to the presidency, the member states and the commission to participate in that contact group. in short, effective cooperation and a fluid exchange of information on the common visa policy must be put into practice. it is not for nothing that the member states, not the european parliament, have consular staff at their disposal, and we want good cooperation to translate into respect for the role of co-legislator which corresponds to parliament in this area. all these issues and other forthcoming proposals and reports which the committee will have to put forward and table in the coming months will undoubtedly be the subject of the next parliament, after the elections on 25 may. but it is very important that the reflection should begin now, as soon as possible, so that the next parliament can not only continue it, but bring it to a conclusion.
mr president, as you know, i have worked hard this term on the question of suspension and reciprocity. this legislature has shown us how important it is for the union to have a genuine community visa policy. the successive amendments to regulation (ec) no 539/2001 - which, amongst many other achievements, have brought us a win in terms of solidarity and coherence - the reform of the schengen area, the sis systems and the debates on smart border control have served to strengthen our policies in this area and also to make us aware of the need to act from a common european approach. in all these procedures parliament has exercised its functions with intelligence, striving to safeguard the powers which have been conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon and which, in short, are powers conferred on european citizens. i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commission to continue to pay close attention to this very important aspect in future discussions. i would like to express my satisfaction with the recent amendment to regulation (ec) no 539/2001, which will grant visa-free travel to colombia and peru, among other countries. it is an important decision which i fully share, and it is necessary for the commission to act swiftly and diligently to present the committed impact reports. parliament will monitor the follow-up to the agreements reached on this dossier, but also the other measures that need to be developed to make visa exemption a reality for these two countries.
member of the commission. - mr president, from the beginning of this mandate, the commission has put modernisation and development of the single market at the top of its agenda, with the constant and valuable support of the parliament and the council. our action in this field, at the initiative of commissioner barnier, has focused on two issues. on the one hand, the commission has proposed reforms, in the single market acts i and ii, promoting the growth potential in key sectors of our economy. in this context, i would particularly mention the simplification of the public procurement directives, the creation of the unitary patent, the creation of the european professional card in the context of the revision of the directive on professional qualifications, actions in the field of social entrepreneurship, etc. your participation in all these work streams has been invaluable. on the other hand, we have made commitments to ensure that the rules – existing or new – are fully implemented in all member states and effectively operating for the benefit of all single market actors (citizens, companies, regions and public administrations). let me mention three examples. first, we have raised our level of determination as regards the full and correct implementation of our texts, in particular with the ‘zero tolerance’ principle as regards the services directive. second, we have developed, within the framework of the european semester, tools for monitoring the implementation of internal market legislation, in particular with the publication of the annual single market integration report and the online single market scoreboard. third, we have decided to put additional focus on easily accessible information and assistance tools for businesses and citizens. this includes our actions in the context of the solvit network, as shown in the recommendations we adopted on 17[nbsp ]september 2013. the parliament is very involved in this matter and, on behalf of commissioner barnier, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr løkkegaard, and mr kastler, who drafted the opinion for the committee on employment and social affairs. your report draws attention to the insufficient resources allocated to solvit centres in some member states and, in line with the recommendations of the commission, calls for change in that area. sufficient resources are indeed an essential condition for the success of the solvit tool and the use of its full potential. i also welcome your recommendations relating to the further development of solvit and, in particular, the issue of its accessibility for users. one of the main challenges which you point out in your report is that companies need to be oriented towards solvit at the right time. the commission has already started work on this issue. one way to make solvit more visible is to connect it more closely to the web portal ‘your europe’. we have now made sure that each section of that site provides links to solvit. ‘your europe’ is a forum where citizens and businesses can get practical information regarding their rights and the current state of implementation of eu rules at national level. it had 6.5 million visits in 2013, and therefore represents a big potential for solvit. this measure is already paying off: the number of solvit cases increased by 16% in 2013, totalling 1[nbsp ]430 cases. this is clearly developing in the right direction. we are also active in attracting more businesses to solvit. we want to double our efforts to raise awareness among companies about the potential of solvit. finally, in recent years, we have observed that the rate of resolution of cases involving companies remains lower than that for consumer cases. the commission will analyse the situation and, in order to be able to respond in an improved manner to future cases, we will extract information from the solvit database and identify barriers to business activities in the single market. our common priority must now be to focus on improvements in the existing solvit tool. if the results prove to be disappointing, we will certainly have to reflect together on alternative solutions. however, for the time being, the commission remains convinced that we have the right tool in place and that our main priority should be to develop the full potential of solvit together. thank you again for the report and for your support in this important matter.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon on thursday.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs dolores garcía-hierro and mr raül romeva i rueda, on behalf of the committee on fisheries and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on specific measures in the field of the common fisheries policy to develop the role of women (2013/2150 (ini)) (a7-0070/2014).
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost two years since i began work on the own-initiative report on the recognition of the role of women in the common fisheries policy. first of all, i would like to thank the efforts and collaboration of the officials of the committee on fisheries, my assistant ana and the organisations of women fishermen in europe, who have been fighting since 2006 to ensure that the member states of the european union make visible and recognise the economic, social and cultural contribution made by women in the fishing sector. after a lot of hard work, which was also supported by the committee on women's rights, we have come to a common text which is being presented today. today, if parliament votes in favour of this report, it will be beginning a process of urging the commission and the member states to put an end to this injustice. the lack of economic, labour and social recognition that women fishermen, shellfish farmers, packers, etc. have been suffering. it is not fair that in the 21st century more than 100 000 women - estimated to be in all of europe, since there are no reliable statistics - continue to be denied recognition for the economic and social activity they carry out. their work not only enables them and their families or partners to survive, but also contributes to the sustainability of the environment, the marine environment, small-scale coastal fishing and the towns and regions of europe that live mainly from this activity. we therefore call on the commission to implement, together with the member states of the union, the principle of equality by facilitating women's access to social security, health care, parental leave, unemployment protection and vocational training, as well as the recognition of the specific pathologies or diseases they suffer from carrying out this activity. in short, they should be able to enjoy a salary and all the other legal, labour and social rights, just like men. we urge the commission and the member states to produce complete, harmonised and accurate statistical information so that we can have accurate and reliable data; to support associations of women fishermen; to facilitate the financing and participation of the european network of women's organisations in fisheries and aquaculture (aktea), so that they can continue their work of training, participation, exchange of proposals and advice to women in the sector. i also think it is essential that the commission and the council encourage the member states to regulate, as far as women fishermen are concerned, specific occupational diseases or injuries from fishing, as they occur as a result of the harsh conditions in which they fish. finally, at a time when we are discussing the trialogue of the european maritime and fisheries fund, i would like to see the financing of the projects mentioned above made possible through this instrument and also to facilitate women and young women's access to vocational training and vocational training, to setting up businesses or to being self-employed, to obtaining micro-credits, to carrying out this economic activity which is so important in the fisheries sector. these regions, ladies and gentlemen, are becoming known to us all mainly because of this invisible work of women. that is why i ask for your vote in favour.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i must say that the debate is not new to me, because i have been working in the two committees responsible for this issue - the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities and the committee on fisheries - in that regard. so in a way what this report does is to merge two of the - for me - big issues that are currently holding our attention. it is also important to highlight the fact that many colleagues have been working on this issue for a long time, as we have seen in some of the trips we have made in the past - thanks to our colleague izaskun bilbao - to the basque country, where we were able to get to know the reality of many of these organisations, many of these women who clearly demanded greater visibility and greater recognition of their activity. so what this report is about is simply to do justice to all those people, all those women, all those organisations who have done a clearly invisible job in those last few years - not recognised, not socially, not economically, not legally - and who therefore needed to be compensated in some way. over 100 000 women work in different aspects of the fishing sector: 4% in the extractive fishing sector (work related to fishing vessels, such as rowing, packing or packing); 30% in the aquaculture sector (mainly shellfish) and 60% - the vast majority - in the processing industry. the hard work they do clearly demands attention which has not been given to them until now. (interruption by the president) i have had the opportunity to experience this hard work and hardship personally. in this report, therefore, we are urging the commission, but also the other bodies of the european union, to change the situation, starting with the recognition and visibility of their work. this requires the availability of statistical programmes specific to the regions concerned, which not only clearly define their work but also break down by sex indicators such as the age, educational level, education or activity of their spouses or partners, in order to have a good basis for subsequent policy-making. it is also important to ask for social, political and economic justice for all those women in the sector who have been working without any recognition, not even in the field of health and social security. it is also urgent to regulate and recognise as occupational diseases injuries to joints or the spine or rheumatic diseases caused by the harsh weather conditions in which shellfish-catching, packing, packaging, processing, processing, fishing and marketing women have to work, as well as those resulting from excessive weight lifting. we must not forget the need to encourage and financially support - as has also been said - the association of these women through networks which, at national or european level, are the object of our attention. it is important to raise the profile of the role played by these women in the sector and to raise awareness in society of the contribution these organisations and women make in relation to the common good and service. finally, it is also necessary to encourage and assist these organisations so that they can ensure greater parity in the decision-making bodies which are in operation at that time.
mr president, as chairman of the committee on fisheries, i have asked for the floor to congratulate the rapporteurs, mrs garcia-hierro and mr raül romeva, and to express my satisfaction that we have been able to reflect - even a little - on the reality of women in the fishing industry, who are so often forgotten. it is certainly inconceivable to talk about the fisheries sector without directly addressing the role of women and fishermen's families - who are also often overlooked. we have been able to reform the common fisheries policy, which i think is satisfactory; we have all been able to make concessions to win the whole thing, but in any case we will aim to have better and more sustainable fisheries, but we will only be able to do so if we value the role that women play in this activity.
mr president, today i bring to you the voice of the saltpeter women, of those who sew nets, who unload and sort fish, who supply ships: they are the rowers, the boatswainers and the packers, who do a job - hitherto invisible - that has never been recognised in european programmes or in the legislation of the member states. they're simple people, like my mother, who have spent their lives working while praying that the sea would return their family complete. meanwhile, they live off us by taking care of the house, by working in jobs that require complex apprenticeships, jobs with erratic and irregular hours, hard but essential. they are the rearguard of the fleet, of our basque fishing fleet. that's why i ask for justice for them and sensitivity. they support the report which recognises their work, as approved by the committee on fisheries.
member of the commission. - mr[nbsp ]president, honourable members, you are about to vote on the report concerning specifications in the common fisheries policy for developing the role of women. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, ms[nbsp ]garcía-hierro and mr[nbsp ]romeva, as well as the committees on fisheries and on women’s rights and gender equality, for their joint initiative and for the comprehensive work put into this report. the report covers an issue which is important both politically and in terms of gaining a better understanding of the socio-economic issues affecting the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. the timing of the report is well[nbsp ]suited to the legislative process: lessons learned from the european fund for fisheries and valuable recommendations can be applied to the forthcoming programming period with the new european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). ensuring equal participation and equal opportunities for women in fisheries, under the future emff, is a joint responsibility for us all and it requires joint action and joint efforts. we should explore all avenues in terms of ensuring that gender equality is included in all aspects of programming, and that there are specific funding priorities designed to help women in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. as the use of the funds is maximised by enabling women to acquire new professional skills and supporting networking, exchanges of experience and best organisational practices, women will become more visible in their ancillary tasks, and new opportunities will become available to them to participate actively in fishing communities. a specific measure in favour of women is the promotion of gender equality: the emff can support networking and exchanges of experience and best practice among stakeholders, including among organisations promoting equal opportunities between men and women. this support can also be granted to spouses of self-employed fishermen. honourable members, as we begin a new programming period for the emff, let us work together to continue to create an enabling environment in which women can play an important role in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday, at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs françoise castex, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on private copying fees (2013/2114 (ini)) (a70114/2014).
mr president, i have two requests to make in connection with this debate on private copying. firstly, to the spanish government to stop the stifling and harassment of artists and creators, whom it abuses with its policy of private copying; and secondly, to the european commission itself to examine definitively the complaint that these trampled-on authors and artists are making to it.
member of the commission. - mr president, on behalf of commissioner barnier, i would like to thank the rapporteur ms[nbsp ]castex for her work on this report. this is an important contribution to the debate about the future of private copying in europe. this debate was launched on 31[nbsp ]january 2013 when mr[nbsp ]antonio vitorino concluded the mediation process by presenting his recommendations to commissioner barnier. these recommendations sought to find a balance of interests on the basis of solid analytical work. while acknowledging the important role of levies for creators, mr[nbsp ]vitorino suggested adapting national systems to the online reality of the single market. the report by ms[nbsp ]castex concurs with many of those ideas, in particular in so far as her report suggests reforming the current levy schemes in order to eliminate the existing barriers to the internal market, as well as to adapt those systems to the digital environment. the report also calls on the commission and the member states to envisage further harmonisation, focusing in particular on the process of the setting of tariffs, the system of ex-ante exemptions for professional users and the reimbursement schemes applicable in the event of double payments in cross-border transactions. at the same time, given the strongly diverging positions of the stakeholders, it is not a surprise that mr[nbsp ]vitorino’s recommendations and the proposed own-initiative report diverge on certain points as well. the commission takes note of those differences. we also remain convinced in this context of the need to work further to modernise the current regime in light of technological changes and the development of online services, as well as to meet the requirements of the single market. the commission is, as you know, completing a review of the eu legislative framework applicable to copyright through a public consultation, legal and economic studies, and in-depth impact assessment work, and intends to propose a white paper setting out further options before the summer. private copying forms an integral part of that work and ms[nbsp ]castex’s report is a valuable contribution to our reflection.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday, at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.35 a.m. pending the vote and resumed at 12 noon)
in writing. - the regulation offers an optional legal system for contracts between consumers and professionals for on-line contracts (as a sort of complementary legal regime). the use of the optional instrument would overcome the application of the relevant national, mandatory consumer protection provisions but should also offer overall a high level of consumer protection which is comparable or higher than that of most national laws. nevertheless as its practical use is still difficult to predict and could lead to existing rules of consumer protection being circumvented, our group decided to abstain.
in writing. - we must advance rights and avoid complacency. implement and strengthen article 38 of the charter of fundamental rights, on the protection of consumers against unfair commercial practices and unfair contractual terms. today we have barriers to crossborder trade. but the best solution now is not a new regulation. i voted against this report because it does not guarantee the maximum protection for consumers and, moreover, it creates legal uncertainty by proposing an optional system which, in many cases, reduces the level of protection afforded by the national laws in force. harmonisation through new legislation does not offer a balanced solution and will only produce asymmetrical effects on the single market. i call on the member states not to harmonise this directive which lowers the level of protection of european citizens.
in writing. - abstention. the regulation offers an optional legal system for contracts between consumers and professionals for on-line contracts (as a sort of complementary legal regime). the use of the optional instrument would overcome the application of the relevant national, mandatory consumer protection provisions but should also offer overall a high level of consumer protection which is comparable with or higher than that of most national laws.
in writing. - i voted in favour, and the rapporteurs' efforts are commendable. but it is regrettable that so little progress has been made in harmonizing and defining a european legal system which would have its roots - it is worth proclaiming this - in roman law and in the formation, already in the middle ages, of a common law formed thanks to the subtlety of the bologna glossators. in other words, when there was only the vague architecture of the holy roman empire, we thought in european terms and now, with solid political structures, we are reduced to a dispositive or optional formula when, nevertheless, we have made a lot of progress in specific areas such as consumer protection. that's the most contradictory thing i've ever heard.
in writing. despite an unprecedented race against time by the tobacco industry to delay the text and the complacency of many conservative meps, we have contained the breakdown and managed to avoid any delay in the legislative process to the next term. for cigarettes, the combined image and text health warnings will now cover at least 65% of the surface of the pack throughout the european union, prominently displayed at the top. all characteristic flavours will be banned, including menthol (banning within 4 years after the entry into force of the directive). the great victory of the environmentalists is the introduction of mandatory and thorough evaluations for the most widely used and problematic additives. these carcinogenic additives must eventually be eliminated from tobacco products!
in writing. - understanding that tobacco use is clearly harmful to health in general, but taking into account that it can affect young people in a particularly harmful way, including their access to it, and thus make it an addiction that is certainly not beneficial, this directive will, to the extent that it is adopted, seek to combat the possible motivation that young europeans may have when approaching this harmful habit. smoking remains one of the leading causes of death, and it would be preventable if people did not develop this harmful habit. thanks to the measures taken so far, consumption has fallen by 40%, which is indicative of the appropriateness of this type of policy. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include the use of electronic cigarettes, unless they are intended for specific therapeutic purposes.
in writing. - in favour. in order to ensure that the single market delivers, for the benefit of citizens and businesses, it is vital to improve the information available to people and companies about their rights in the single market and the rules in place in different member states, but also to offer them the necessary assistance in solving cross-border problems. these objectives have been high on the parliament’s agenda for a number of years. on 17 september 2013, the commission presented a recommendation on solvit and the your europe action plan. the new commission recommendation is expected to help solvit do better, while the your europe action plan should help improve the availability and quality of information on eu rights in the single market and thus raise awareness among citizens and businesses, in particular smes, of their rights and also help them find their way to solvit when they face problems exercising those rights. following a number of reports prepared by imco in recent years, this report focuses on solvit and looks into its functioning from a wider perspective of single market governance.
in writing. - in favour. given the unsuitability of traditional judicial cooperation in the current european context, the step forward that the adoption of this directive represents is undoubtedly a positive factor, which will clearly help to consolidate the construction of the european criminal area. it crystallises the tension in terms of progress with the transfer of sovereignty, in the name of security and the protection of fundamental rights. the challenge in terms of european criminal integration is therefore to ensure respect for and to guarantee fundamental rights. it is significant that the preamble to the charter of fundamental rights expressly refers to the area of ‘freedom, security and justice’, given its particularly sensitive nature in terms of fundamental rights and freedoms. there is no need to point out that this guarantee must be ‘real’ and not ‘formal’. the carefully-thought-out and considered development of the european criminal area therefore requires judicial control of respect for fundamental rights in the union.
in writing. - the almost unanimous agreement of all political groups on the application of the european investigation order (eio) to be a judicial decision issued by a competent authority of a member state (the 'issuing state') in order to obtain one or more specific investigative measures to be carried out in another member state (the 'executing state') with a view to the collection of evidence in the context of the procedures referred to in the adopted text is noteworthy. the objectives of the european parliament have been achieved in terms of achieving a proper balance between the need for strong and effective judicial cooperation between member states to combat crime on the one hand and the rights of the defence on the other. the excellent work done has also been highlighted, taking into account the need for rapid and effective cooperation between the member states and the natural concerns and rights of the defence, creating a balanced instrument acceptable to both the member states and this parliament.
in writing. - in favour. the objective of this proposal is to amend the annexes of regulation 539/2001 establishing a list of countries whose citizens must have a visa when crossing external borders and a list of countries whose citizens are exempt from that requirement – the transfer of republic of moldova from the negative list (annex i) to the positive list (annex ii). the legal basis for a common visa policy is set out in article 77(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the lists annexed to the aforementioned regulation need to be regularly reviewed and considered by means of a case-by-case assessment of a variety of criteria relating, inter alia, to illegal immigration, public policy and security, and to the european union’s external relations with third countries, with consideration also being given to the implications of regional coherence and reciprocity.
in writing. - in favour. the goal of the voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) between the republic of indonesia and the european union is to establish a legal framework in order to (i) assure the traceability of timber products, (ii) put in place a verification procedure certifying that timber products shipped into the market of the european union have been acquired, harvested, transported and exported legally, assuring good management and legal exploitation of the indonesian forests, and (iii) reinforce the validity of the forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) action plan of the european union. the vpa with indonesia was concluded on 30 september 2013 at a ceremony held in brussels.
in writing. - in favour. visas with limited territorial validity are issued to the citizens of kosovo and are valid in the schengen area minus the countries that do not recognize kosovo. should cyprus decide to apply this decision according to article 2(3), cyprus would be obliged to recognise all documents covered by article 2(1) and (2) including visas with limited territorial validity issued to nationals of kosovo, although it does not yet recognise kosovo, until cyprus is fully implementing the schengen aquis. once cyprus starts fully implementing the schengen aquis, mutual recognition would not cover such passports, therefore visas with limited territorial validity would not be valid in cyprus.
in writing. - in this case, this report, which is extremely technical, has been supported by all the groups, since its ultimate objective is to simplify the administrative procedures for the documents required by the countries mentioned, both croatia and cyprus, in order to validate visas for the territory of kosovo. the problem is the unilateral nature of the recognition of these countries, given that it may affect the schengen area and that the recognition of kosovo is not yet unanimous among all the member states of the european union, as is indeed the case in the case of cyprus. this proposal does not constitute a development of the provisions of the schengen agreement within the meaning of the respective association agreements with norway, iceland, switzerland and liechtenstein. it is therefore not binding on the countries mentioned. however, for the coherence and smooth functioning of the schengen system, this decision also covers visas and residence permits issued by the countries associated with the implementation, application and development of the schengen agreement.
in writing. - in favour. regulation 539/2001(1) lists the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of the member states (the so-called negative list, annex i) and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (the so-called positive list, annex ii). the purpose of this commission proposal is to update the regulation. as the criteria set out in regulation (ec) no 539/2001 can evolve over time in relation to third countries, the composition of the negative and positive lists should be reviewed at regular intervals. the commission submitted its proposal in response to the european council’s request, expressed in the stockholm programme, that it keep the two lists under regular review. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, parliament has had codecision powers in relation to all aspects of the common visa policy in accordance with article 77(2)(a) tfeu.
in writing. - i think that the resolution adopted does not clearly reflect the causes of the situation in ukraine and is guilty of a certain bias. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - in favour. since the decision of the ukrainian president and government to suspend the signing of the association agreement, hundreds of thousands of people have taken spontaneously to the streets all over the country in support of european integration. in kiev the demonstrators have been calling for strong political change with a view to making the government review its decision, and the euromaidan movement is the strongest citizens’ movement for freedom and democracy there has been in europe since the late 1980s. thus, we firmly condemn the brutal and disproportionate action of anti-riot forces that led to the dramatic escalation of violence.
in writing. - iraq continues to face serious political, security and socioeconomic challenges, and its political scene is extremely fragmented and plagued by violence and sectarian politics, to the severe detriment of the iraqi people’s legitimate aspirations for peace, prosperity and a genuine transition to democracy. iraq is facing the most severe wave of violence since 2008. with this resolution, we strongly condemn the recent acts of terrorism and heightened sectarian violence, which carries the danger that the country will fall back into sectarian strife and is generating fears of wider sectarian conflict across the region, and point out that although violence occurs along sectarian lines, its causes are political rather than religious.
in writing. - i think the resolution is an important step forward on the road to the disappearance of the use of these types of weapons. it does not imply prohibition, which should be the ultimate objective, but it does imply a significant limitation on its use and a step forward in the defence of human rights.
in writing. - in favour. the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas, hereinafter ‘drones’) in extraterritorial lethal operations has increased steeply over the past decade. unknown numbers of civilians have been killed, seriously injured or traumatised in their daily lives by drone strikes outside declared conflict zones. in the event of allegations of civilian deaths as a result of drone strikes, states are under the obligation to conduct prompt, independent investigations and, if the allegations are proved correct, to proceed to public attribution of responsibility, punishment of those responsible and provision of access to redress, including payment of compensation to the families of victims.
in writing. - this is an annual report to assess the effective implementation of fundamental rights in the eu after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. human rights are one of the fundamental and basic pillars on which the functioning of the eu is based, as they protect all individuals from possible interference, abuse and violence, at all levels, in the area of their private life and their rights and freedoms. the eu has therefore developed a core acquis aimed at ensuring respect for, the protection and promotion of fundamental rights, while recognising that a genuine culture of fundamental rights must be developed, promoted and strengthened, not only in the eu institutions but also in the member states, in particular when they apply and implement union law, both internally and in relations with third countries.
in writing. - in favour. european integration is a political project born out of the ashes of the second world war and the persecution and repression of individuals by totalitarian regimes, and its aim has been to anchor european states to democracy and the rule of law in order to respect and promote human rights, fundamental rights, equality and the protection of minorities, on the basis of the universal declaration of human rights (udhr), the european convention on human rights (echr) and other instruments on human rights and fundamental freedoms, and avoid a return to any kind of authoritarian regime. the individual, citizen or resident, must be at the centre of the european union, and fundamental rights protect any individual against possible interference, abuse and violence by authorities – at all levels – with respect to their private life and their rights and freedoms. respect for and promotion of human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the values and principles enshrined in the eu treaties and international human rights instruments (udhr, echr, iccpr, icescr, etc.) must be at the centre of european integration.
in writing. - amendment no 6: i voted against because it cannot be said in a generic way that the memoranda of understanding have caused a profound setback in labour and social rights, nor is this report the precise instrument for assessing the actions of the so-called troika. the european parliament will therefore be taking a decision on the own-initiative report drawn up by the committee on employment and social affairs in march.
in writing. - in favour. the european arrest warrant framework decision (henceforth ‘eaw fd’) approved in 2002 entered into operation on 1 january 2004 and is the most important eu legal instrument based on the mutual recognition principle whereby judicial decisions are executed on the basis of mutual trust. the objective of the eaw fd was to make it quicker and easier to bring suspects and accused persons to justice by transforming the old cumbersome extradition procedure involving politicians into a new faster surrender system through communication between judicial authorities. the eaw facilitates surrender by, inter alia, setting strict time limits and limiting the use of dual criminality as a ground for refusal. it requires the requested member state to execute the warrant without any assessment of the substance of the accusation or conviction.
in writing. - in favour. the text commends indonesia’s enormous voluntary effort to resolve rampant illegal logging and associated trade by developing its svlk through a multi-stakeholder process, and especially the significant progress achieved in recent months; remains concerned, however, about certain problems; recalls that in order to formally issue flegt licences the svlk must be operational with a view to achieving the goals of the vpa. it also welcomes the outcome of the negotiations on the voluntary partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of indonesia on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber products into the eu and reiterates its support for the conclusion of the vpa and its willingness to support the successful implementation thereof.
in writing. - i think the resolution is very biased and biased, and its only objective is to push for the overthrow of the legally and democratically constituted government. i disagree with the ways and means of the venezuelan government, but that does not mean giving confidence and truth to the opposition, whose ways and means are not to my liking either.
in writing. - in favour. the common visa policy constitutes a necessary corollary to the lifting of internal border controls within the schengen area. the main elements of the common visa policy are: the common lists of countries whose citizens are subject to the visa requirement and those whose citizens are exempt from it, as annexed to regulation 539/01, the common rules on the issuing of visas as contained in the visa code, the uniform format for visas, the exchange of information through the visa information system, and a series of international agreements with third countries on visa exemption and facilitation. the treaty of lisbon provides for the use of the ordinary legislative procedure for all aspects of the common visa policy, and for parliament’s consent for all international agreements on the matter.
in writing. - women account for 12%[nbsp ] of total employment in the fisheries and aquaculture sector in the european union. these women perform a multitude of tasks within the family business in addition to those linked to the family, the home and the community. they are responsible for almost all the relations on shore, with the bank, the administrations linked to the sector, etc., covering all kinds of activities such as the sale of fish, the repair of nets or the preparation of hooks. in addition to the traditional tasks, these women are now responsible for diversifying the activities of the fishing enterprise. this contribution by women is becoming more important as the economic crisis intensifies because of the savings they imply, since the fact that women take on the task means that there is no need to go to an external service for its completion. it is therefore positive and appropriate that parliament should adopt a report on specific actions to develop the role of women in the fisheries sector.
in writing. - in favour. the aim of this report is to consolidate the knowledge, recommendations and initiatives of the committee on fisheries and committee on women’s rights and gender equality in relation to the socio-economic role played by women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy. the specific activities undertaken by the european parliament’s committee on fisheries with regard to developments in gender equality in the common fisheries policy in recent years include the european parliament resolution on women’s networks: fishing, farming and diversification (2004/2263(ini)), the european fisheries fund 2007-2013 and the 2010 hearing held by the committee on fisheries on women and the sustainable development of fisheries areas, which highlighted the difficult conditions faced by women in the fishing world and the need to promote women’s participation in all areas of fisheries policy.
in writing. - the promotion of equal opportunities and equal access to work for both men and women is one of the most recognised objectives of legislation throughout the european union. while the role of women is usually an added value, the contribution of women in aquaculture is particularly relevant. we are talking about more than 100 000 women in the fishing industry, without any clear indication of the legal and social benefits which these women should have. this initiative is therefore important, by establishing concrete measures for implementation and development for all the member states, but of course promoted at community level, in order to promote concrete actions leading to the recognition, both de facto and de jure, of their work.
in writing. - i have supported both resolutions because i agree with the role that private copying fees have played so far and because i advocate a thorough study and debate to develop a new approach that ensures the application of equivalent conditions to rights holders, consumers, manufacturers and importers of equipment, and service providers throughout the eu.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank and welcome this annual exercise of transparency and visibility of the eib's activities and to welcome its president, mr hoyer. i will mention three points which concern me and conclude with a final request. i welcome the financing of renewable energies, in contradiction to the erratic and mistaken energy policies of governments such as mr rajoy's in my country, but this does not prevent the resources from also being used to invest in projects for the modernisation and energy recovery of europe's indigenous coal, the only strategic reserve resource that is safe, whether there is sun or not, whether there is wind or not, and above all in co2 capture and storage projects, so that they are no longer virtual but are really real. i also welcome the support for the neighbourhood policy. i understand that ukraine is a priority today, of course, but let us not forget countries which have already made a huge effort to democratize and which need it before, since yesterday - i am referring to the case of tunisia and the urgency of allocating resources for the immediate development of this country. finally, the new financial instruments, in cases such as the 'connecting europe' mechanism for the new transeuropean networks, must be implemented as soon as possible, especially in order to develop their new potential; we are not, however, prepared to accept what the council is now trying to do, via the revision of the multiannual framework, which is to reduce its capacity to apply flexibility. we're not going to take it. in conclusion, the plea: we urgently need the employment for young people to flow. we must therefore see that the eib and its instruments are not only able to provide finance but, above all, to make these jobs a reality.
on behalf of the alde group, madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to congratulate mrs zuber on this work, because i think it strongly embodies an idea that must be stressed: gender equality is not only a matter of justice, it is also an investment. inequality is not just an injustice. in addition to generating marginalization, infringing fundamental rights and often producing violence, it is a catastrophe from an economic point of view. inequality means that the labour force, training and capacity of half the population is not used. and that, in addition to being unfair, is inefficient. dozens of studies show that women, with the same preparation as men, bring other skills to the economy and better dynamics to coexistence. first of all, because we have learned a lot about emotional management and that is today a factor of excellence and competitiveness. we must begin to measure this contribution statistically so that it is clear and visible. we all need it, but especially the skeptics. things will really start to change when those who resist equality - who are often the same people who, under the pretext of austerity, are cutting into the european social model - understand that we are talking about development, competitiveness, innovation and efficiency, and also, in addition, about values, humanity and fundamental rights. if we truly aspire to smart, sustainable and inclusive development, we cannot marginalize talent, capacity and knowledge any longer when it is women who bring these resources. such behaviour is unsustainable and does not produce social cohesion. inequality is incompatible with the europe 2020 strategy. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. what i think is that this report clearly defines what is being asked of the commission and what is being asked of each of the member states. and what we need is a firm political will on the part of the political leaders, and above all on the part of the states, to put an end once and for all to inequality, an inequality which, as we saw in the first european report, generates as a direct consequence figures of violence which are unsustainable. we still have stereotypes and women still have difficulties in entering the labour market, because they are the majority of those who take care of children and the elderly. i therefore lack more political will, a firm will on the part of the member states to implement the specific programmes which are clearly defined in this report, both what is asked of the commission and what is asked of the member states.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, mr silvestris, i must admit something. i think that that our communication strategy on this proposal has failed. because, if one were to look at the content of this directive, it is exactly the opposite of what it is being criticised for. for instance, the idea that traditional seeds will now be regulated gives the impression that they are not regulated today but that they will be. on the contrary, today they are being regulated, and with the new proposal they will have a lighter registration procedure. the same applies to fees. today member states can impose any fees, but with this proposal, smes are exempted from fees. this does not mean that the commission will not do its very best to engage itself with the co-legislators on some concerns which have been raised, but basically we believe the proposal is a good one, which had received considerable attention even before its launch in may[nbsp ]2013. first of all, let me clarify certain key issues. this proposal seeks to regulate the marketing of seeds. it does not seek to regulate their use, so all these criticisms that we are regulating the use of seed, whether on farms or in private gardens, are just not true. again, it does not seek to regulate intellectual protection of varieties or gmos, nor plant breeding as such or the size of companies in europe. this proposal also does not regulate the use of seed by private gardeners. private gardeners may buy, sell or produce material in small quantities without any testing and can exchange seeds with other private gardeners without falling under the rules of the proposed regulation. this was another main thrust of the criticism against this directive. so the aim of this proposal is simply to ensure the identity, health and quality of seed sold to users – be they farmers, gardeners, foresters or consumers. as you will appreciate, seed is an important economic factor for farmers and therefore also for agricultural and food production in the european union, and i would point out that european farming organisations – both organic and non-organic – support the revision of the legislation, as do seed suppliers and plant breeders, as well as the majority of member states. after 40 years, and with 12 separate directives in place, the evaluation of the current legislation showed a clear need to update, streamline and revise our legislation. first, on administrative burdens: these will be lessened with this directive, not increased. procedures are not going to become more complicated; they are going to become simpler. second, the aim of the directive is to introduce flexibility, where under the current legislation there is no flexibility, and to foster innovation and respond to the needs of specific types of production, whether conventional, traditional or organic. the third aim is to encourage innovation, with faster market access for new improved varieties and through sustainability criteria for variety testing. we believe the new concepts of plant reproductive material should lead to the creation of new business opportunities. the fourth aim – and in contrast to what is often claimed – the new proposal leads to lower administrative burdens and lower costs, especially for micro-enterprises. finally, as i said in the beginning, traditional varieties and new concepts of plant reproductive material, such as heterogeneous material and niche market material, would benefit from a significantly simplified path of access to the market – this would not, as is alleged, strangle these traditional varieties – and this will contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources. let me highlight especially the issue of traditional varieties. for these varieties, market access has been made considerably easier, thus developing a much lighter regime in terms of both administrative burden and cost than is currently the case. at present – and some members conveniently forget this – even traditional varieties have to be tested, officially or using results provided by the applicant, for distinctness, stability and relative uniformity, and there are quantitative and areal marketing restrictions as the law stands today. according to our proposal – if it is approved – in order to register a traditional variety there will no longer be a requirement for any testing; all the applicant has to do is to provide a description which is recognised by the competent authority. secondly, quantitative and areal marketing restrictions have been abolished and, since testing is no longer required, registration fees are expected to fall. finally, all micro-enterprises – unlike the position today – will in any case be exempted from registration fees. so how can one criticise this directive by saying, with regard to traditional varieties, that it is making life harder? it is making life simpler. let me now come to another issue: the number of delegated acts. i appreciate that, each time we mention delegated acts, there is criticism from the european parliament. but may i remind this assembly that, with the current directive – if this is approved – the empowerments for secondary acts scattered in 12 different directives, amounting to 278, will – with the new directive – be reduced to 62: practically a 75[nbsp ]% decrease in the enabling acts of delegated acts. and the number of secondary acts themselves will be reduced from around 80 to fewer than 40. so, we can say – contrary to certain claims – that the proposal contains more substantial provisions than the existing 12 directives and therefore implies an increased involvement of parliament compared to the current situation. having explained all these points – and of course i defend the directive in so much as members of parliament criticise it – i can, however, assure you that i understand these concerns. i understand some of them; others i do not understand, and i would like to understand them. i understand the concerns regarding the highly technical nature of the proposal (but this is a technical matter), the high number of tabled amendments (i recognise that), and the short time available to examine the proposal. so i can also assure this assembly that the commission is willing to study the concerns as expressed in the tabled amendments, to look at the issue of delegated acts – even though we have made a reduction of almost 75[nbsp ]% – and to contribute to finding clarifications and solutions which take the interests of stakeholders into account, which is in the interest of this parliament and of the commission, and to find common ground to further improve this important proposal.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, mr commissioner, i am very sorry that we have had to reject this proposal after the excellent work of mr silvestris in unifying these 12 directives into one regulation. you are right, commissioner, about the criticism of 'copy and paste' that has been levelled at this proposal. he didn't really deserve them. but it is not easy to include such different sectors within the same rule, and we think that this requires more rest and debate than can be had at the end of a legislature and at the end of a term of office of a college of commissioners. for example, the inclusion of forest reproductive material is not understood when it has nothing to do with food safety, which is one of the main arguments used by the commission in presenting this proposal. the proposal is too general in that it seeks to cover so many sectors in one technical standard. it also proposes vague definitions, giving rise to wide margins of interpretation, which would result in a huge administrative burden and legal uncertainty for member states and producers. this explains the huge number of delegated acts - many of which are unjustified - that are planned and that make future repercussions unpredictable. finally, i would like to say... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the crisis in ukraine and russia's illegal invasion of crimea have revived concepts such as territorial integrity and its defence as a legal and political good. i believe that the european union made a grave mistake in recognising the secession of kosovo and that this opened the floodgates to the secessionist trend throughout europe. legally and politically there is no right to secession, but since it affects not only the state which suffers it on its territory, but the european union as a whole, i would urge the european parliament to use its right to decide on matters which affect it to strengthen the legal and political mechanisms to put an end to the perverse separatist trend which is affecting many of the member states of the european union and also affects its future as a political union.
mr president, the establishment of the european system of financial supervision in 2010 was a milestone in the financial reform process; this is the first review. i am grateful to the rapporteur, mr giegold, and to the other rapporteurs for their cooperation in this review, which is being carried out after the first judgment of the court of justice of the european union on esma and which, in my view, should be directed towards three main directions. first, to improve the transparency, independence and effectiveness of the system, through direct access and automatic exchange of information, without duplications, through budgetary independence, strengthening the role of the chairman, the possibility of executive delegation and the improvement of stakeholder groups. secondly, to strengthen the mandate with new provisions on transparency and corporate governance of financial institutions and consumer protection, also reinforcing the initiative on mediation and legislative control. thirdly, to contribute to strengthening european economic surveillance and governance by establishing the equality of the members of the system after integration into the single supervisory mechanism and by enabling the recommendations of the european systemic risk board to be addressed to the single supervisory mechanism and to form part of the european semester. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i believe that it is the political parties and the citizens who have to set up their democratic processes and i am of course in favour of the authorities forming part of the european system of financial supervision being able to exchange information in an automatic way, because i believe that this is what can best benefit the functioning of the system, what can reduce costs and what can increase trust between all parties.
mr president, as an alternative rapporteur for this report i would like to thank mr wałęsa for his work, but i would also like to stress a number of points in this, which will be the last report of this legislature. citizens trust the petitions commission; the number of petitions in 2013 has doubled from 2010 and more than 10[nbsp ]000 have been received in the legislature's total. the commission should therefore be given more manpower and the web portal should be launched without delay. but we are witnessing an attempt by the european people's party to lower the political profile of the committee on petitions, with the intention of safeguarding the governments of the member states. we come to this conclusion when we read the part on working methods, where we enter into procedural details which are, in our opinion, unrelated to a report of this kind, or the reference in recital k to the democratic adoption of agendas, which can give the large groups the possibility of controlling the issues to be dealt with. finally, i would like to draw attention to the importance of adopting amendment no 7, which calls for the possibility for the petitioner to address the committee on petitions in his own language, as can now be done in writing with the commission or the committee of the regions, as a result of a bilateral agreement between these institutions and the member states. this would help to bring parliament closer to the citizens and to defend one of the union's principles: cultural and linguistic diversity.
member of the commission. - mr[nbsp ]president, the commission firmly believes that improvement of the negotiating position for small farmers requires an increased degree of organisation in the sector. fortunately, the available data show a steady increase in organisation, albeit at differing degrees in different member states. the reformed common market organisation regulation confirms and improves the provisions on producer organisations and associations in the fruit and vegetable sector. following the cap reform, the commission has started drafting the requisite delegated and implementing acts, and the input of parliament and the member states will be taken into account. these discussions will take place in the current year. the same will happen in relation to marketing standards, with further simplification where possible. the commission will present a report on producer organisations, operational funds and operational programmes in the fruit and vegetable sectors in the first quarter of this year. the conclusions of that report will be taken into account in the ongoing discussion on delegated and implementing acts. the commission has noted the call to create two different approval processes for cisgenic and transgenic plants. the commission has undertaken an analysis to clarify the legal status of the new breeding techniques under the current gmo legislation. the commission proposal for a regulation on plant reproductive material includes a number of provisions, such as fee exemptions and support for microenterprises, which are particularly relevant in the fruit and ornamentals sector. in addition, the proposal facilitates access to the market for traditional varieties and allows the marketing of heterogeneous material which contributes to genetic diversity within crop species. concerning organisms harmful to plants and plant products, the commission emphasises that the current eu legislation already ensures that import requirements for third countries closely mirror the requirements for intra-eu trade. the report also mentions the approval system for pesticides. here the commission acknowledges that we have one of the strictest procedures in the world. the overriding purpose is to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. the commission recognises that this may have an effect on the availability of plant protection products for eu farmers, and thus possibly on competitiveness. to address this problem, the commission has just adopted a report on the establishment of a fund for minor users, which will in particular benefit the fruit and vegetable sectors. furthermore, the commission, with member states, will support a research coordination network – era-net – on integrated pest management, with specific reference to minor users. this will contribute to the further development of integrated pest management, including non-chemical alternatives. the report also addresses food waste. this issue is gathering a lot of political support – and rightly so – as people are shocked to learn that we waste 30-50[nbsp ]% of the food we produce. this means we are wasting land, nitrates, water and energy and many other key resources used in food production. the commission will present a communication on sustainable food by this summer. the communication will set out a number of areas for action, with food waste as a central theme. we are also looking at how we can support member states in developing strategies to prevent food waste. a few examples of action are: offering clearer technical definitions of food waste, establishing an agreed methodology for collecting food-waste data, and setting targets for food-waste prevention as part of the revision of the waste framework directive. another avenue of action is the establishment of a working group with stakeholders to establish the best possible support measures at eu level. one of the issues concerns the possible role of short food-supply chains in mitigating the loss and waste of fruit and vegetables. eu food hygiene legislation also includes derogations for small farms and short food-supply chains. this facilitates direct consumer access to agricultural produce whilst ensuring consumer safety.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs de keyser for her excellent report. torture and ill-treatment are a scourge that must be eradicated and in that sense the report is moving in the right direction with regard to third countries. it would have been appropriate to introduce references to the establishment of universal jurisdiction in legislative systems or to urge the prohibition of pardons for those convicted of torture. the situation in the union is a sin of complacency. in the countries of the union, detainees are tortured and ill-treated. spain is one of them, as has been pointed out by amnesty international and the united nations special rapporteur on torture. for more than twenty years, the european committee for the prevention of torture of the council of europe has repeatedly called on the spanish authorities to implement three fundamental safeguards to prevent persons held incommunicado from suffering ill-treatment and torture. it's not working. none of the three has been applied. the defence of the right to life of all persons is bound up with the defence of the physical integrity of persons and the unremitting fight against torture and ill-treatment. and vice versa. i know. the union must also fight relentlessly against ill-treatment and torture in the union's own countries. if we don't act like this, we're cheating the loner.
mr president, since we adopted the new european system of financial supervision in 2010, we have reformed more than ten directives to incorporate in their text the references to the new european supervisory authorities, as well as to grant new delegations. this new amendment will affect more community provisions. these are certainly reforms which are necessary to ensure the solvency of financial institutions, but which make me reflect on some of the problems we have with the way we legislate, including the long time it takes to complete procedures, something we often condemn in the continuous reports and resolutions we adopt to legislate better. we should incorporate agile practices for the legislative delegation in order to be heard better, to hear better the momentous debates we have in this parliament. we could thereby attract the attention of the citizens, who are perhaps separated by the wall that raises so many votes in this parliament on delegated matters or on mere administrative actions.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would first like to congratulate parliament, and in particular the rapporteurs, for the swift progress they have made in recent months on both the directive and the regulation. i view this as an expression of support for the commission’s proposal and a clear signal from parliament of its commitment to take a firm stance against those seeking to abuse the eu financial system for money laundering or even terrorist financing purposes. the united nations office on drugs and crime has estimated the amount of funds laundered annually through the global financial system to be usd[nbsp ]1.6[nbsp ]trillion – or 2.7[nbsp ]% of global gdp. with a strong system of financial regulation, europe is by no means immune to the problems of money laundering and terrorist financing. this is why the commission has proposed strengthening the existing rules in line with internationally agreed standards and, where necessary and appropriate, beyond the international standards. with respect to the amendments parliament has been asked to vote on, i would like to make the following comments. it appears likely that, even after this debate, parliament will take a clear position in favour of publicly-accessible beneficial ownership registries. we salute the aims behind this important amendment. they are fully in line with our objective to enhance transparency on the ownership of companies and trusts. however, it is also important to ensure that there are adequate guarantees that the information contained in such registries is reliable and up-to-date, and that obliged entities must not neglect their duties to further investigate beneficial ownership. we also need to ensure proper respect of data protection laws. i think most of the debates until now have touched on striking the right balance between, to quote mr kirkhope, ‘sunshine being the best disinfectant’, while at the same time providing data protection so that access to the registries is carefully tailored and provided on a need-to-know basis. i note that parliament wishes to see the commission play a strong role in a number of important areas, such as carrying out a supranational risk assessment, compiling lists of politically-exposed persons, making evaluations about the equivalence of third countries and assessing the effectiveness of national regimes. we share the concerns that parliament seeks to address, which are very often motivated by the need for a more european internal market approach. we are ready to look at practical ways in which the commission might play an enhanced role in the various processes, bearing in mind, however, that we should not duplicate existing and effective processes. with respect to the proposed derogations or exemptions for gambling services and electronic money, the commission would, in principle, prefer not to introduce such exemptions as there is a risk that, if accepted, any exemption might be interpreted too widely and be misused. this is an issue that will have to be looked at further as negotiations on this file continue. with respect to the proposed strengthening of data protection provisions, the commission agrees that it is critically important to protect privacy and personal data. however, it is also important to ensure that a correct balance is struck so that the anti-money laundering directive does not lose its raison d’être. repeating already-applicable general data protection principles, which may lead to differences in interpretation and legal uncertainty, should – in the commission’s view – be avoided. the rapporteur’s report rightly draws attention to the connections between the fight against money laundering and the fight against tax evasion. it calls upon the commission to increase the pressure on tax havens to improve their cooperation and exchange of information in order to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. however, while the commission fully shares parliament’s objectives, we need to take care that we address such concerns using the right legal instrument. the commission has indicated, in its 2012 action plan to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, that it will study the possibility and feasibility of aligning the definition of certain types of tax offences, including administrative and criminal sanctions. finally, i will say a few words about the fund transfers regulation. i wish to take note of the broadly supportive stance taken by the rapporteurs and the econ/libe joint committee. we believe that several of the more technical amendments helpfully clarify the interaction with other financial services legislation. however, we have similar concerns to those already expressed on the directive with respect to the proliferation of data protection roles. as i said before, the important thing is to find the right balance. in conclusion, the commission welcomes the progress on this file. we hope that similar progress will be made by the council in the near future, so that both legislators can work towards a speedy final adoption of these important files.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, as i have said in this house before, the amount of money laundering is estimated at some 330 000 million euros. to give you an idea, it represents the gross domestic product of countries the size and importance of malaysia, chile or finland. as rapporteur, i have tried to highlight some points which, given the unfortunate reality of living in spain with terrorism, have been and are very much in our minds - i say this on the anniversary of the terrible massacre of 11 march in my city, madrid, in 2004'. we all know that behind the mask of idealism - supposed idealism - there are nothing but mafia gangs whose activity is aimed at making the greatest possible profit with the least possible and terrible effort. experience has shown that terrorism has adapted to the new times, channelling its revenues through the financial system and money laundering. i therefore propose a number of amendments, simply to modify and improve certain aspects, such as that legal professionals have a duty of care to ensure that the services they provide are not used for tax evasion and tax avoidance; also that investors have the right to know who is the real owner of the companies paid for; the definition of terrorist financing, which should be in line with the recommendations of the international financial action task force; and that employees who report suspicions of such money laundering are protected and not afraid of being fired from their jobs. i would like to dedicate this speech and this report to the victims of 11 march.
mr president, this legislative package against money laundering seems to us to be a very important step forward, but with one caveat: this private and unregulated financial system is a system which, if it is not modified, will always give rise to corruption, fraud, tax havens and money laundering. it's a problem with the system. there is no doubt that this legislative package makes money laundering and tax evasion more difficult. so i think this package can help, first of all, to focus the anti-fraud agencies' investigation on where that money laundering is created, which is, by 70%, in the big companies. not in small business, in big business. secondly, it is a question of strengthening all the units against tax crime. for example, in my country, spain, they are becoming weaker and weaker and we are not able to put an end to this scourge which is basically affecting the whole of the population. and finally, a very easy and cost-free measure which would obviously be a direct attack on money laundering: withdrawing the five hundred euro notes.
mr president, i express my sorrow and solidarity with the victims on the anniversary of 11 march. i also welcome the adoption of this package on money laundering. i would like to mention some of the improvements which have been included and which i consider to be very effective: the improvement of the clarity and consistency of the legislation of the states by creating an identification mechanism; the increase in the transparency of transfers of funds of all kinds, in order to facilitate the tracing of criminal and terrorist funds; the strengthening of cooperation between the various national financial intelligence units; the improvement of the functioning of the commercial registers in the member states, because, in order to prevent the financing of terrorism, it is absolutely essential to identify the holder; the updating of the sanctions systems; and, finally, the respect for the protection of personal data. this financial crime hurts everyone. according to estimates by the international monetary fund, the scale of money laundering represents 5[nbsp ]% of global gdp and brings corruption and a threat to the integrity of financial institutions. i therefore welcome the adoption of this package of regulations and directives to prevent, investigate and detect money laundering and terrorist financing. let's not forget that jihad has four principles, which are: capture, fight, pray and collect. without collecting, there is no funding and without funding, there is no jihad. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs wholeheartedly and sincerely on the excellent work they have done.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank all those who have participated in this debate, which shows that our only differences are about the most efficient means to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism. many subjects have been mentioned – tax havens and on-course gambling, as well as the beneficial ownership registries. let me start with tax havens. of course, the commission shares the concerns expressed about the loss of tax revenue through tax havens, and about the possibility of tax havens being linked with money laundering. i think the fourth money laundering directive makes a start on a subject on which there is no general consensus among the member states. why? because the directive explicitly recognises that tax crimes give rise to a money-laundering offence. however, i think we need to be cautious about what can be achieved with this legal instrument, because work is under way in other forums in the taxation field to address the problems associated with tax havens themselves more explicitly. i said in my opening remarks that the commission is against granting exemptions or derogations to gambling. during the debate the opinion has been expressed that a lot of small and medium-sized enterprises do on-course betting, and it is not usual for these enterprises to be linked with money laundering. indeed in one case – i believe it was in finland – most of the slot machines are run by state agencies, which are not of course linked to money laundering. so i do understand the need to reduce burdens. however, i believe that where money laundering risks arise, we have to be very careful and ensure that there are preventive systems. therefore, the commission remains reluctant to consider any broad-based derogations. almost half the interventions made reference to the beneficial ownership registries. we take note of this strong call for these registries by parliament, and i repeat that the commission sympathises with parliament’s position on this. i pledge to explore practical ways in which to bridge the gap between this co-legislator – parliament – and the position of the council. another suggestion which was put forward during this debate was to lower the threshold for beneficial ownership. in response to ms[nbsp ]mccarthy’s intervention in particular, i can say that the reason for a 25[nbsp ]% threshold on beneficial ownership in the directive is – and i must say this very openly – because the threshold is an indicative one. that is to say that, if money laundering is suspected, then an obliged entity must probe further, even beyond the 25[nbsp ]% threshold. the figure of 25[nbsp ]% has been chosen because, although it is an indicative threshold, it is the indicative threshold which is accepted by an international standard-setter, the financial action task force. mr moraes and others referred to the importance of implementing the directive. of course there is the usual problem that it takes years to pass a law, and sometimes the laws approved by this parliament – and also those approved by the governments of member states – are not then implemented by the national authorities. the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, starts infringement proceedings every now and then, because it is not acceptable if someone does not abide by a law which that government itself had approved. so, in the implementation of the anti-money laundering rules in the member states, we shall continue to monitor the situation. there already exist robust procedures by international standard-setters to evaluate the implementation of anti-money laundering rules. as i said, under the treaty the commission has the obligation to monitor implementation. at the same time, we should be careful not to duplicate effective processes, because i think that would weaken rather than strengthen the monitoring. in conclusion, before you proceed with the vote, i would like to thank parliament for its support and efficient work on this important package. we need strong rules to protect the integrity of our financial system, we need to implement them in ways which ensure their effective application, and we need to safeguard the internal market and ensure that europe remains an open and competitive place in which to do business – but clean business – inside the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
before moving on to the next item on the agenda, i would like to greet a group of young socialists from my province of ciudad real who are in the gallery and whom we welcome with the affection and friendship we feel for them, for the province of ciudad real and for your organization.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr ivailo kalfin, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financing operations supporting investment projects outside the union (com (2013) 0293 - c7-0145/2013 - 2013/0152 (cod)) (a7-0392/2013).
madam president, this is the first time in five years that i have spoken in this way in this chamber. there have been few initiatives or debates that have aroused as much passion or been subject to as much scrutiny as today's vote. and i think it is not a good image for an institution that has received the nobel prize to applaud when today we have rejected... (protests) they can keep shouting. i'm not in a hurry. i'll wait until they're quiet. it seems to me that it is a bad sign to reject a proposal which merely advocates and proposes to work for equality in this institution. this is the image of the values we want to convey to europe and to the women of europe. today this institution has given a bad image to work for equality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the delegation of powers to the european commission is necessary to facilitate the collection and consistency of statistical data on the transport of goods by inland waterway. the commission proposal has been completed by the work of the competent committee of parliament, so that data on passenger transport, technological advances towards 'cleaner ships', infrastructure characteristics, etc. have been included. the report also points out the lack of harmonisation in this type of statistics. the development of this type of transport, which is much more sustainable than other modes, requires reliable data to enable objectives to be set and compliance with them to be monitored. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. regulation (ec) no 1365/2006, which the commission proposes to amend, establishes common rules for the production of community statistics concerning inland waterway transport. data collected within this framework exclusively focus on the transport of goods. the commission proposal sets out to align the comitology provisions of regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 to delegated and implementing acts further to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. no other changes have been proposed by the commission. the report welcomes the commission’s intention to align the existing comitology provisions to delegated and implementing acts. however, there is a need to streamline the powers delegated to the commission to safeguard the parliament’s prerogatives. with this proposal restricted to an alignment exercise, the commission misses the opportunity to optimise and reinforce the collection of statistics relating to inland waterways transport.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it introduces the obligation to provide macroeconomic statistics to the european commission in order to implement its recommendations in the field of economic policy. the report stresses the fundamental obligation of the member states to provide the commission with such statistics, and provides for a system of penalties in the event of serious infringements or fraud in the provision of such statistics. the legal basis on which this report is based is not sufficiently clear and it is clear that this report seeks to facilitate the work of the commission and the troika in imposing their economic policy. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - in favour. on 7 june 2013, the european commission adopted a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the provision and quality of statistics for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. the proposed regulation aims to ensure the quality and timeliness of the production, provision and quality monitoring of statistical data which are compiled or transmitted for the purpose of the procedures for the detection of macroeconomic imbalances, as well as the prevention and correction of excessive imbalances within the union. the commission proposal covers the transmission of the statistical data and metadata that are relevant for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure (‘mip relevant data’) (articles 1 and 2); a new quality assurance framework including quality reports by member states (articles 3 and 4); quality assessments by the commission (article 5); inventories of sources and methods (article 6); missions to member states (article 7); the reporting and communication of the data to the different stakeholders (article 8); and sanctions concerning the manipulation of statistics (articles 9 to 13).
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is expected to make progress on various aspects of the negotiation of the transatlantic trade and investment agreement. the report includes the new wording of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, which envisages cooperation in the area of security, which would translate into technological collaboration in the field of military research. this could lead research centres to investigate technologies that violate human rights, such as combat drones. the report also provides that the united states may unilaterally revise the annex on intellectual property. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - the report is a step towards the implementation of the nagoya protocol in the union. it could have been more positive, but it meets the minimum to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the approval of the nagoya protocol represents a fundamental step forward in the recognition and protection of the agrobiological heritage of mankind and because this heritage cannot be privatised in the way that the large multinational seed companies are doing. this international protocol recognises the contribution of indigenous peoples to the conservation and development of the very important varieties of seeds that today feed the world. this advance in the protection of seeds and the democratic sharing of their benefits should serve as a tool to try to prevent the monopoly of seeds by the big multinationals in the sector. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. at the international summit on biodiversity held on 29 october 2010 in nagoya, japan, the parties to the convention on biological diversity (cbd) adopted three historic agreements to combat the loss of biodiversity: the nagoya protocol, the global strategic plan for biodiversity 2011-2020 and the creation of the intergovernmental platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services (ipbes). the nagoya protocol is an international treaty that focuses on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilisation, and has since been signed by 92 countries, including the european union and 26 member states. it establishes an international system to support one of the three objectives of the cbd, namely the sharing of benefits arising from the utilisation of genetic resources to enable the preservation of biodiversity and its sustainable use. this important agreement on the international governance of biodiversity is the result of lengthy negotiations since the adoption of the cbd in 1992 in rio de janeiro.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the situation of workers through the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the report provides for the provision of eur 840[nbsp ]000 for 300 affected workers from different textile companies in the valencian community, with a view to allowing investment in their training and re-adaptation following an industrial conversion process. it is a tool which enables workers in the textile sector to adapt to the changes affecting the production structure of the european union. the provision of these public funds for training and retraining is clearly not enough to help workers throughout europe; it is a minimum cushion which can improve their situation. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. on 28 january 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in 198 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 13 (manufacture of textiles) in the nuts ii region of comunidad valenciana (es52) in spain, due to major structural changes in world trade patterns attributable to globalisation. this is the first application to be examined under the 2014 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 840[nbsp ]000 from the egf for spain. it concerns 560 redundancies in 198 textile enterprises of the comunidad valenciana region of spain with 300 workers targeted for egf co-funded measures during the reference period from 1 november 2012 to 1 august 2013.
in writing. - the european parliament gives the green light to a much-needed aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund of some €840 000 to be allocated to the 300 textile workers in valencia who lost their jobs. this will directly contribute to their reintegration into the labour market, as these funds will enable these workers to be properly trained and able not only to look for work but also to set up new businesses. the planned aid is additional to the aid to be granted by the spanish authorities. the restructuring of the textile industry has been particularly affected by the negative impact of the crisis, which has had a negative impact on employment. that is why this additional support will enable these workers to be given the necessary impetus so that they can even become entrepreneurs who in turn promote and create new employment.
in writing. - i voted against the commission proposal. the commission proposal does not take up the factual arguments which highlight the severe loss of agricultural biodiversity as a consequence of existing restrictions on the marketing and exchange of seeds and a concentration of the seed market in the hands of a few multinational companies. these arguments have been raised for many years by farmers, gardeners and seed savers. ignoring this severe impact on our agriculture and the food system, the legislative proposal for a new regulation would continue to apply very restrictive and expensive rules and procedures for the testing, registration and marketing of seeds through the common catalogue of the eu. the proposal continues to impose criteria like distinctness, uniformity and stability, excluding traditional or newly bred heterogenic seeds which would be the basis for better conservation, development and sustainable use of seeds in more resilient farming practices such as organic farming and mixed cropping.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents yet another attempt by the lobby of the various multinational seed companies to regulate the sector so that these corporations are the only players authorized to market seeds on the continent. this report rejects the importance of farmers in the conservation of agrobiodiversity and, by requiring the member states to do what is included in this proposal, it prevents farmers from marketing their seeds themselves. with this proposal, multinationals are the only ones who can market seeds, which reinforces their monopoly in the sector and condemns humanity to depend on them for food. i have decided to vote against this report because it is a reform which is contrary to food sovereignty.
in writing. - we have voted in favour of first reading agreement in order to confirm rejection.
in writing. - against the amendment by the efd, which would mean that the procedure stays open.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a step towards facilitating speculative activities which do not produce wealth or jobs. the main political groups in parliament are once again reaffirming their commitment to capital, making it easier for millions of euros from the financial sector to find a way to continue making profits through the insurance sector. the proposal makes it easier for companies to take out insurance contracts without having to have sufficient assets to meet potential payments. once again, we are back on the speculative path that has brought us to the current financial crisis that has plunged the continent into ruin. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - against. omnibus[nbsp ]ii was originally proposed in january 2011 to amend the solvency[nbsp ]ii directive (prudential requirements for insurers) and the prospectus directive (publication requirements for companies issuing securities) in order to accommodate the new architecture for implementing measures introduced in the 2009 lisbon treaty and the new financial supervision measures introduced in regulation (eu) no[nbsp ]1094/2010 establishing the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). however the commission also introduced an amendment to solvency[nbsp ]ii giving the european supervisory agency, eiopa, the power to adjust the way insurers calculate how much they need to invest today to ensure they can meet their obligations to policyholders in the future. seemingly a small change, but it had the potential to reopen the whole basis of the prudential framework for insurers. the insurance industry was well aware of this and extremely keen to use this opening to ensure that: a) such adjustments minimise the amount of investment required; b) that the adjustments are ‘hard-codedʼ into legislation and not just left to the eiopaʼs discretion. for this reason, we observed a large number of amendments from the ppe, alde, ecr and s&d that clearly bore the hallmark of industry lobbying.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an objective increase in the information requirements relating to the transfer of funds for the purpose of combating tax fraud and tax evasion. the report leaves much to be desired, since it will not be, by any means, a regulation that will allow a definitive end to fraud, evasion and the financing of illegal activities, but it does imply an increase in the requirements applicable to the international movement of funds. tax evasion and tax fraud are the main economic problem in the european union and this report can serve to make it more difficult for the big fraudsters to move about. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. the funds transfer regulation lays down rules requiring payment service providers to send information on the payer and the payee throughout the payment chain for the purposes of the prevention, investigation and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing. a coordinated response from law enforcement bodies in the member states and a standardised procedure for financial institutions and payment service providers are essential to combating money laundering, which costs many billions annually. a unodc report estimated that the flow of laundered money in the world today stands at around 2.7[nbsp ]% of global gdp (or about usd[nbsp ]1.6 trillion in 2009). complementing the package on fighting money launderers and terrorists (together with the fourth anti-money laundering directive), the funds transfer regulation aims to achieve the same overarching goal of fighting money laundering and terrorist financing more efficiently by enhancing the transparency of fund transfers of all types – domestic and cross-border – in order to make it easier for law enforcement authorities to track funds transferred electronically by criminals and terrorists.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 73 to article 10 (1) (d) which i myself tabled and which was previously adopted by the econ and libe committees in joint session. this amendment is justified because it is necessary to differentiate between the different types of games depending on the risk of being used for money laundering. it is not justified to require game providers to monitor low-risk linked prize payments of less than eur 2[nbsp ]000; it is very difficult for suppliers to implement and is not an attractive way for fraudsters to launder money, as they have to pay a premium and, by buying from a larger number of sellers, increase the risk of being reported.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in the fight against money laundering and the financing of illegal activities, as well as in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud. this report, which can be improved in many respects, has included various measures which may hamper the activity of the spanish government in supporting tax evasion by large companies. the report includes measures, such as an assessment of the areas of greatest risk for tax crimes at european level, which could force spain to focus its efforts on large companies, on strengthening the tax offences units, etc. many of these measures can be used to combat tax evasion and tax evasion in a real way, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. the new directive seeks to improve the current framework to prevent the conversion of the proceeds of criminal activity into legitimate funds via the financial system. the commission’s proposal is drawn up to follow the review conducted by the commission on the implementation of the current directive in force, as well as to represent the changes made to the non-binding recommendations issued by the financial action taskforce (fatf). according to the calculations of the international monetary fund, the extent of money laundering is vast and is estimated to reach 5% of the world’s gdp. such criminal activities undermine the integrity of the financial sector, result in loss of revenue for governments, hinder competition and adversely affect the smooth operating of the markets, as well as hampering development.
in writing. - transparency is one of the european parliament's priority objectives, and any aspect that may be related to bad practices or directly linked to profits obtained from criminal acts will obviously be in the spotlight, to combat it effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxpayer is not misled by the tax fraud which is taking place in the member states. we cannot allow 2 to 5% of world gdp to be the result of money laundering. the proposed system will also ensure the protection of personal data. and of course the politicians of the european union will be directly linked to this directive, as it could not be otherwise.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents an advance for the interests of international capital in relation to the activity of the european investment bank in the world. the report calls for increased cooperation between the european parliament and the european external action service, influences the sovereign policies of states because of its conditionality, gives priority to financing from the private sector in third countries, allows the opinion of non-democratically elected institutions to be taken into account and climate change mitigation objectives to be used as a condition for financing, etc. these are the interests of transnational capital, which will be financed by this bank to continue with land grabbing and neocolonial policies in the world. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - in favour. the eu guarantee for the eib’s external operations combines efficiently eu budgetary funds, through the provisioning of the guarantee fund for external actions, with eib own resources, with the aim of achieving eu external policy objectives. the proposed new decision will cover the eu guarantee for eib external financing operations over the period beginning on 1[nbsp ]january[nbsp ]2014 and ending on 31[nbsp ]december[nbsp ]2020. the reduction of investment is the result of the cuts in the long-term eu budget, which will affect all the policies of the union. financial restrictions in the next budget period will entail a reduction of the annual external lending budget of the eib by an average of 4.2 billion to 3.6 billion per year, which will affect all the activities of the institution.
madam president, i would like to say that today the ppe group has succeeded in ensuring that a document which could have become an instrument against industry, against activity, can be controlled and subjected to common sense criteria. the system of monitoring genetic resources and compensation to the countries of origin is indeed important, but it is also true that what we cannot create is an excessive bureaucratic instrument which in the end produces distortion and prevents the proper use of resources. on the other hand, we should not think that this could lead to a requirement for patents, a requirement for certain guarantees, which is impossible to foresee in society today, especially since we are talking about a matter that normally occurs in third countries, which do not have a legal system that allows small owners to defend themselves and protect their interests. so common sense has triumphed.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report, even though it incorporates the adoption of the nagoya protocol into european legislation, because it does not take up all the points which parliament had proposed. the proposal to amend the legislation on genetic resources includes a number of changes which could be a step forward in the protection of these resources. however, the report does not specifically include the obligation to defend the rights of indigenous peoples, nor does it include the voluntary registration of collections as compulsory, or a greater fight against illegal access to resources, etc. it is because of all these shortcomings that i have decided not to vote in favour of this report, although i do recognise the positive points it does contain.
in writing. - in favour. the loss of biodiversity is constantly increasing and accelerating. it has been calculated that one in four species of mammals, one in eight birds and more than one in three amphibians are threatened with extinction worldwide (iucn, 2012). almost 60% of ecosystems have deteriorated in the past 50 years (fao, 2010). quite aside from the ethical and moral implications, the economic and social impact of this state of affairs is immense: by 2050 economic losses caused by loss of biodiversity will amount to 7% of global gdp (teeb 2010). paradoxically, biological diversity offers an inexhaustible reservoir of innovations and discoveries in terms of scientific research and technological applications, as well as healthcare products, foodstuffs, cosmetics and other products. it is thus imperative to conserve biodiversity, not only for the sake of humanity in both the global north and global south but also for the socio-economic vitality of europe and its people, who benefit directly from its use. in order to help conserve biodiversity, and the peoples and knowledge associated with it, we must ensure today that the benefits arising from the utilisation of genetic resources and the associated traditional knowledge are shared fairly and equitably.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to further improve road safety and to ensure a high level of environmental protection. the main changes and improvements introduced by this proposal are: mandatory inspection of motorcycles and scooters as well as light trailers (less than 3.5 tonnes), increasing the frequency of inspection of light passenger vehicles over 6 years old, switching from 4-2-2 to 4-2-1 years old, with an additional clause for m1 and n1 category vehicles with regard to mileage, additional and stricter requirements for the training of inspectors, more detailed requirements and harmonised standards in relation to tests and equipment used, and the requirement to have the mileage recorded at each inspection to reduce mileage fraud, as well as the inspection of vehicle electronic safety systems.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it is a modification aimed at improving the safety of vehicles on the road, it also imposes an increased burden on the use of older vehicles. it is essential that vehicles in circulation have a set of safeguards aimed at minimising the risks and environmental impact of vehicles. but this need for control cannot justify the inclusion of a large number of tests of dubious utility which impose a heavy burden on the users of the vehicles concerned. that is why i have decided not to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - this proposal on vehicle registration documents is one of the three proposals in the package on the itv. it aims to promote and ensure the application of roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles in order to enhance road safety and environmental protection. the proposal introduces more precise definitions of the place where vehicles are registered and introduces the withdrawal and cancellation of registration certificates. the proposal also lays down new requirements for electronic registration databases, as well as the monitoring of the results of roadworthiness testing, re-registration and destruction of vehicles. as a result, the proposal improves the application of the vehicle inspection and roadworthiness regime.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is about improving the crossborder recognition of documents and administrative licences required in connection with vehicles. by reducing the amount of documentation that needs to be carried in the vehicle, the number of unnecessary documents is reduced. the report also calls on eu member states to share information to speed up procedures and avoid problems with electronic traffic registers. all measures are designed to speed up the administrative exchanges necessary in view of the increase in trade between member states. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. this proposal as a part of the ‘roadworthiness package’ aims at supporting and enforcing roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles with a view to enhancing road safety and environmental protection. it improves the enforcement of the roadworthiness testing and roadside inspection regime, notably in the case where the technical condition of a vehicle creates an imminent risk to road safety, through measures such as temporary withdrawal or permanent cancellation of the vehicle’s registration. before a vehicle is allowed to be put on the market, it has to fulfil all the relevant type or individual approval requirements guaranteeing an optimal level of safety and environmental standards. every member state has the obligation to register for the first time any vehicle that received the european type-approval on the basis of the ‘certificate of conformity’ issued by the vehicle manufacturer. this registration is the official authorisation for the use on public roads and enforces the different introduction dates of different vehicles’ requirements.
in writing. - this proposal on roadworthiness tests for vehicles is one of the three proposals in the package on the vti. the regulatory framework in force in this respect is that established by directive 2009/40/ec and directive 2000/30/ec, which complements it and which establishes the obligation to check the technical condition of commercial vehicles between regular inspections by means of additional and unexpected technical roadside inspections of commercial vehicles. directive 2000/30/ec is repealed and new provisions are introduced, such as: a risk classification system for the selection of vehicles to be inspected; the fact that light commercial vehicles are subject to technical roadside inspections; the requirement for member states to carry out a minimum number of technical roadside inspections each year; the harmonisation of the rules for the assessment of deficiencies, among others.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves a number of fundamental improvements in the checks and minimum safety requirements for roadworthiness tests. this proposal significantly improves the coverage and scope of european legislation on the safety of heavy goods vehicles. this directive introduces the obligation that 5% of the vehicles to be inspected by each member state must be calculated on registered heavy commercial vehicles, excluding light commercial vehicles from the obligations arising from this legislation. the report also encourages member states to apply european safety standards to the transport of goods. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. on 20[nbsp ]july[nbsp ]2010, the european commission adopted policy orientations on road safety. to reach the announced target (i.e. reducing the number of road fatalities by 50 % between 2010 and 2020), the commission proposed, amongst other things, a two-pronged strategy for safer vehicles: harmonisation/strengthening of eu legislation on roadworthiness tests and on technical roadside inspections (including the extension to powered two-wheelers) and a study on setting up a european electronic platform with a view to harmonising the exchange of vehicle data (type approval, registration, results of inspections, etc.). on 13[nbsp ]july[nbsp ]2012, the european commission presented the roadworthiness package, a set of three legislative proposals aimed at strengthening road safety, environmental protection and fair competition by upgrading current requirements on periodic roadworthiness tests, technical roadside inspections of commercial vehicles and vehicle registration. currently, directive 2009/40/ec is complemented by directive 2000/30/ec, which sets out the requirement to control the technical state of commercial vehicles between periodic inspections by means of technical roadside inspections, which are unexpected additional on-the-spot roadside checks for commercial vehicles.
in writing. - the present proposal aims to amend regulation (ec) no 91/2003, which lays down a set of common rules for the production of community statistics on rail transport, collecting data on freight and passenger transport, as well as information on network traffic volume and accidents. the proposal simplifies the regulation by maintaining only the detailed information requirements and by abandoning the concept of 'simplified information', thus reducing the burden on member states without affecting the quality of the data collected. the commission also proposes to abolish the requirement for accident data, since these statistics are also the responsibility of the european railway agency. finally, the proposed amendment takes account of the necessary adaptations to the treaty on the functioning of the european union as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an important proposal for formulating policy objectives on the modification of transport systems within the eu member states. this report raises the need to link eurostat's activity with the european railway agency in order to develop higher quality statistics related to the railway sector. rail transport is essential for a transition to a more sustainable transport system, due to the lower environmental impact of this means of transport. the development of statistics should enable governments to make better informed policies to achieve a less polluting society. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. regulation (ec) no[nbsp ]91/2003, which the commission proposes to amend, establishes common rules for the production of eu rail transport statistics. data collected within this framework cover goods and passenger transport, as well as data collected on traffic flows on the rail network and on accidents. the commission proposal simplifies regulation (ec) no[nbsp ]91/2003 by preserving only ‘detailed’ reporting requirements and abandoning the current concept of ‘simplified’ reporting, thus reducing the burden on member states and respondents, with no significant loss in the quality of data for the transport of goods and passengers by rail, and shortening the timelines for disseminating passenger rail data. for smaller undertakings below the specified thresholds, member states would have to report an ‘overallʼ figure for aggregated indicators in a separate annex. the commission proposes to delete the requirement to collect data on accidents, as these statistics are also collected by the european rail agency. finally, the proposed amendment of regulation (ec) no[nbsp ]91/2003 takes into account the adjustments to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as regards granting the commission delegated and implementing powers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it improves the control mechanisms in public procurement. the report proposes the development of a european standard which the member states can introduce in such a way that it does not involve direct harmonization of legislation but the adoption of this method of invoicing in public procurement. this method can improve control without interfering with data protection and by providing a simple system for the user; in this way, control of public procurement is improved without increasing the cost of such control. there is a need for systems to ensure that public procurement is properly managed, and mandatory invoicing is a step in this direction. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. the proposal constitutes a further step on the road to paper-free public administration. the use of electronic invoicing in public procurement should, like the promotion of electronically-based procurement procedures, be supported. in its decision of 20 april 2012, parliament highlighted the danger of a fragmentation of the market as a result of the growing number of national provisions governing electronic invoicing and pointed to the need for interoperable solutions. the council also stressed, in its recent conclusions, the importance and urgency of making progress with a user-friendly digital internal market, where electronic invoicing in public procurement would also be used.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an absolutely necessary boost to the development of statistical operations aimed at a better knowledge of agricultural holdings in the european union. the report endorses the european commission's proposal to develop a wide-ranging statistical activity on farm structures and production methods. it involves the financing of such operations to improve knowledge of the economic and ecological functioning of european agricultural holdings. this can lead to a better understanding of how farms work and thus to the development of better agricultural policies to improve the situation of the agricultural sector. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it involves a delegation of powers to the european commission in the field of food safety which will undoubtedly be to the benefit of the large food chains. the european commission, thanks to this report, is in control of the examinations of goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products and can thus use them for its purposes, including: non-tariff barriers, entry barriers preventing small farms from processing their products, etc. all this to strengthen the market power of the large distributing companies vis-à-vis farmers. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - in favour. a negative vote is justified because the regulation concerns export refunds.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains various fundamental criticisms of the activities of the european investment bank, it still makes positive references to the growth policy of the european union and to the europe 2020 strategy. this report covers the eib's activity throughout the financial year 2012 and contains positive references in relation to the financing of renewable energy and other important elements, but at the same time it maintains the need to continue financing the private sector by continuing the line that proposes to continue using this institution almost like a commercial bank. i have therefore been unable to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - paragraph 38, second part: i argue that public funding should give priority to a transition to a low-carbon economy based on the development of energy efficiency and renewable energy. this cannot, however, exclude aid to the mining regions through a strategy with more imaginative formulas than the present ones, which aims to support the profitable aspects of the coal industry, conversion, special protection of mountain areas and the settlement of the population in these territories.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because i voted in favour of paragraph 67, which considers prostitution to be a form of violence against women, and i must admit that i made a mistake along with other colleagues in the group. we thought that the resolution, which is generally very good, would go through without any problems. it hasn't been for eight votes. the epp has managed to prevent it from being adopted. lesson learned!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it takes in detail the information provided by the european commission's annual report, providing an approach which introduces a firm critique of the policies developed by the european union. the report includes significant criticism of how the policies developed by the troika are affecting equality between men and women, noting how precariousness and unemployment are particularly affecting women in southern european countries. this criticism should make it possible to make progress in challenging the troika and its attacks on workers, especially european women workers. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a step forward in the transfer of supervisory powers to the very hands which are currently causing the collapse of the economies of the member states affected by the troika. this report reviews and makes recommendations to the european commission, but in general it reaffirms the commitment of the majority of the european parliament to the neoliberal project. the report advocates strengthening the institutions that make up this supervisory system by increasing resources and competences. these institutions will be presided over and controlled by the european central bank, which is one of the main culprits behind the social havoc being wreaked by the troika in southern europe. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an important step forward in improving the transparency of documents produced by the various european institutions. transparency is a fundamental requirement for the democratic quality of the institutions in their relationship with the citizens and any progress towards the publication of all documents is a step forward in the democratic functioning of our societies. the report specifically calls for the minutes of council working groups and conferences of presidents to be published and for all this information to be made available and accessible to the public. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it only reflects the quantitative aspects of the work carried out by the committee on petitions of the european parliament and does not take into account the qualitative aspects of the work carried out during the financial year 2013. although the report points to the significant increase in the number of petitions registered by european citizens, our amendments have not been accepted, which place the implementation of the neoliberal policies of the troika as a large part of the reasons for this increase in petitions submitted by citizens to the european parliament. in addition, populares and socialistas have taken advantage of the report to impose their proposed working method in order to ensure that the number of petitions in the next legislature decreases. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - against. very disappointed with the fact that the ppe and the s&d voted down all our amendments.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it is concerned with certain factors which are fundamental to the development of the sector, it also contains a number of very problematic points concerning the agricultural sector. among its positive points, the emphasis on short marketing channels for developing the sector is noteworthy, as is the fact that the report considers horticulture as a potential source of job creation, which is essential for the development of certain regions such as andalusia. however, the report also includes very negative points at the environmental level, such as the increase in the standards of pesticides used in the sector, the lack of an explicit ban on the use of gmos by the sector, etc. i have therefore been unable to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - against. this own-initiative (ini) report was effectively drafted by the agro-chemical industry: as adopted by the committee on agriculture it still states that fruit and vegetables need pesticides, also that cisgenesis (genetic engineering technique) is just another conventional plant-breeding method, and challenges the ban on bee-killing neonicotinoids, and generally calls for watering down of eu pesticides approval laws. the aim is clear: the agro-chemical lobby wants to have a few ini reports that it can quote in its propaganda for the next few years while it launches a new offensive with a new legislature: fresh meps will join the ep and shiny brochures and websites will tell them how wonderful and needed the chemicals are, and so the majorities are set for the next five years… the level of collusion is clear – the draftsperson mcintyre (uk, ecr) was actually overheard having a frank chat with a pesticide lobbyist about ‘their’ text at the back of the committee on agriculture meeting room immediately after she presented the draft report.
in writing. - this report aims to highlight that, despite the efforts to promote human rights (reflected in instruments such as the united nations convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (cat) and its optional protocol or the european convention for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, which have created an international framework for the absolute prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment), torture persists throughout the world. in the face of this situation, the eu has chosen to strengthen its actions related to the eradication of torture in its eu action plan on democracy and human rights, as well as through the update of the eu guidelines on torture in 2012. this report addresses protection deficiencies, in particular in relation to torture of children, the fight against torture in the eu's relations with third countries, the eu's action in multilateral fora and international organisations and the credibility, coherence and consistency of eu policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an important positioning by the european parliament for the european union's foreign policy to take a position that firmly demands the end of torture. this report reflects the position of a number of international bodies and non-governmental organisations, including their positions on the eu's foreign policy acquis. although references to guantanamo and to torture cases involving the cia have been removed from the text by the majority groups in parliament, the resulting text should serve to put pressure on the european external action service to develop a more coherent policy against torture in the world. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. the prohibition of torture is absolute under international and humanitarian law and under the cat. torture constitutes one of the ultimate violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, takes a terrible toll on millions of individuals and their families, and cannot be justified under any circumstances.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, despite an apparent critical approach to the human rights situation in saudi arabia, it does not firmly demand an end to the country's most unlawful actions. the report points to numerous violations of all kinds that this country is committing inside and outside its territory, from the financing of terrorist groups - although this time they are called "religious and political groups" - to violations of women's rights, passing by many violations that occur in this "open-air prison". however, the report reaffirms the country's strategic alliance with the european union and does not condemn or demand an end to the abuses. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - in favour. according to the text, the ep expresses grave concern that human rights violations such as arbitrary arrests and detention, torture, travel bans, judicial harassment and unfair trials continue to be widespread, is particularly concerned that alleged counter-terrorism measures are being increasingly used as a tool to arrest human rights defenders and that impunity for human rights violations is reportedly increasing, and calls on the saudi government to urgently act upon the recommendations of the 2009 upr, including by continuing and intensifying its reform of the judicial system.
madam president, during this debate we have been discussing the new rules which we are voting on in detail tomorrow. and we have also spoken of the technological revolution which explains why the 1995 directive has become completely obsolete. but we have not spoken enough about the giant leap this parliament is taking in regulating the fundamental rights of citizens. because that is what we are talking about: fundamental rights enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, in article 8 of the treaty on european union and in article 16 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. and this parliament is not dealing here with the transport of animals or with the marketing or labelling guarantees for food products, which are important. it is talking about fundamental rights and it does so by strengthening the privacy of citizens on the basis of their consent, and also by strengthening the principle of legality, which is that any limitation on the privacy of citizens must be established by a rule that can be subjected to a test of necessity and proportionality, as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union wants. but it is also a reinforcement of the ownership of that data to be able to correct or delete, where appropriate, those that are harmful to the privacy of citizens, through what is known as the right to be forgotten. it is a giant step for this european parliament to take direct action with a regulation to legislate on fundamental rights. because a regulation does not require transposition, but is directly binding on the member states and can be invoked by citizens in court. now, it also comes with a directive and they form a package. i therefore draw attention to the point made by the rapporteur, mr droutsas, on the directive. it is essential, in order to strengthen the security that goes with the guarantee of privacy, that the law enforcement agencies directive be adopted together with the regulation.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. it was therefore right to entrust the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs with an inquiry which it has conducted over the past six months and on which it has worked to the limit of its capacity. and the conclusions are telling. firstly, the data protection package must be completed, but secondly, the safe harbour agreement and the swift agreement must be suspended and a data protection protocol introduced in the atci which is being negotiated with the united states. similarly, we must demand reciprocity from the united states in terms of access to the judicial system with guarantees of rights under the same conditions as americans have access to european justice, we must guarantee the confidentiality of communications from and between european institutions, but we must also ensure a code of conduct in external intelligence that ensures the privacy of those millions of citizens free from any suspicion of being involved in any criminal activity, let alone terrorist activity. finally, we must promote legislation to protect whistleblowers, that is, those who decide to cooperate with the judiciary by reporting on illegal intelligence activities of which they have become aware in the course of their professional activities. but the important thing here - and i am not happy to say this - is that the european parliament has been the only representative institution of the citizens that has lived up to its commitment to the fundamental rights of citizens and, in particular, to the guarantee of their privacy, which has been massively violated by this us intelligence programme.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the rapporteur, mr moraes, for his constant readiness to engage in dialogue with the members of the committee on foreign affairs who have been working on this committee of inquiry. as the vice-president of the commission said, we are faced with the problem of restoring trust between two partners and allies, and i believe that president obama's statements of 17 january are a step in that direction, which must be translated into concrete deeds. first, in the area of data protection, us legislation needs to be revised to guarantee the right to privacy, to ensure non-discrimination between eu citizens and us citizens and to sign up to international conventions. in the field of cooperation between intelligence services, this is a competence which belongs to the member states and i would like to make a very clear principle clear, mr president: cooperation between the united states and the european union is a fundamental element in ensuring security for both partners, but, of course, this does not mean that these activities are disproportionate or that they are not subject to certain limits, namely, the pursuit of terrorism or the fight against organised crime; moreover, they must be subject to the respective judicial and parliamentary safeguards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that we should not denounce the swift and pnr agreements and i believe that the approach to the issue of atci with the united states is in line with the approaches we have put forward to our colleagues in the house of representatives and the senate of the united states, as well as to representatives of the state department and the white house, and i believe that we must preserve them, precisely on the eve of the fourth round of negotiations and president obama's visit this month. but it is clear that not only the european union has to do its part, but the united states also has to do its part so that the rights of european citizens, which are fundamental rights, can be properly guaranteed. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. one of the seven sages of greece said that every question incorporates at least fifty percent of the answer. i think that 50% of the answer has been raised by you, mr albrecht, in your question. what i simply wanted to say in my speech was that this agreement between the european union and the united states is vital for the situation of our continent, for our future progress and for the rest of the set of problems that are being raised on a planetary scale. i have said that what must be done is to create the conditions so that when that agreement is concluded and submitted to this parliament, this parliament can ratify it. and it is clear that our political project is a project based on values, on fundamental principles and not just on figures and economic data. i think a good listener needs a few words.
mr president, my first words today can only be a remembrance of all the victims of terrorism and, in particular, of the 192 people who lost their lives in the madrid train bombings. ten years have passed, but the memory and the pain are still intact, as well as our anger against those who decided to punish not only hundreds of families, but the whole of spanish society, which continues to weep in silence like that of march 11, 2004. and on this european day of the victims of terrorism, i want to promise those who, like me, have seen their loved ones die at the hands of terrorism that we in this parliament will always fight those who have no respect for life, because we are free and, moreover, we are not afraid. and it is in defending the security of our citizens against the barbarity of terrorism that we have the obligation to seek a balance that does not violate the right to privacy and, for this, we must draw clear lines from the law that cannot be crossed, but asking for the dissolution of the terrorist financing monitoring programme, which allows the european union to share data with the united states, is a profound mistake, since thanks to this collaboration attacks have been prevented. we must support the protection of citizens' data, but without jeopardising their security. the terrorists don't have to rub their hands together because we broke that deal that has paid off. privacy, yes; security, too. and all in collaboration with the united states and, moreover, without ever forgetting the human rights framework.
madam president, i had the honour of being minister of justice in the spanish government when the lisbon treaty was unblocked and i strongly supported the inclusion of the european public prosecutor's office in article 86 of the treaty. and as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i continue to support with all my strength the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. i therefore think it is good news that parliament is adopting a favourable position, which is what has been achieved in the iacolino report and the libe committee. it's a gradual step in the right direction. the first step is a prosecutor's office that is able to prosecute fraud and defend the financial interests of the union, but the second step has to be a prosecutor's office that is able to bring justice, to impose justice on serious transnational crime. and that requires, firstly, a very clear and precise differentiation between the functions of eurojust and olaf and those of the future european public prosecutor's office; secondly, ensuring their independence and their subjection to democratic rules, clearly drawing the line between national prosecutor's offices and the european public prosecutor's office and, finally, also overcoming the institutional difficulties. some national parliaments have imposed the 'yellow card' and some national governments are dragging their feet before the european public prosecutor's office. it will be important, however, to use enhanced cooperation to put it into practice. and finally, the legislative action of this parliament in the creation of a new european criminal law must be kept very coordinated, with the creation of a european public prosecutor's office to defend it and put it into practice.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the presidency i should like to thank parliament and in particular mrs oomen-ruijten for her work. the resolution highlights a number of issues and concerns of major importance and comes at a particularly timely time for eu-turkey relations. the council reaffirms the importance it attaches to eu relations with turkey. turkey is both a candidate country and an important partner with a dynamic economy. active and credible accession negotiations, based on the established selectivity, will give this relationship with turkey its full potential. in this context, we welcome the opening last year of chapter 22 'regional policy and coordination of structural instruments'. the european union must remain the catalyst for reforms in turkey, especially in the areas of the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms. the council continues to encourage turkey to pursue reforms that provide the necessary checks and balances, ensuring freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. the implementation of reforms on the basis of european criteria is a key issue. the council also welcomes the active and continuously developing civil society in turkey, which should be supported and encouraged as a legitimate actor. the council also welcomed other important positive developments, including the establishment and operation of institutions such as the ombudsman, the national human rights authority and measures taken in the field of women's rights and gender equality. however, further and continuous efforts will be needed, in particular with regard to improving respect for fundamental rights and freedoms in turkey both in law and in practice, including in the areas of freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of religion and property rights. the excessive use of force against protesters by law enforcement agencies must be addressed and investigated effectively. the restrictive practices on media freedom, including a high number of prosecutions of writers and journalists, academics and human rights defenders, frequent and disproportionate website bans, and the widespread application of legislation on terrorism and organised crime are also issues of serious concern. let me stress that the issues of concern to the european union were raised by turkish prime minister erdoğan during his meetings with presidents van rompuy, barroso and schulz during his visit to brussels on 20 january. president van rompuy and president barroso referred to recent events in turkey and conveyed to prime minister erdoğan, in a clear and consistent manner, the eu's concerns regarding the application of the principle of the separation of powers, the independence and impartiality of the judiciary and the need for a functioning judicial police. the meetings underlined that turkey, as a candidate country, is committed to fulfilling the political criteria for accession and that it is important not to fall behind and to ensure that the judiciary is able to operate without discrimination and preferences in a transparent and impartial manner. we therefore expect turkey to make efforts to ensure that it fully meets the copenhagen criteria. the fulfilment of these criteria, in addition to being a necessary condition for the accession process itself, is in turkey's interest and will meet the legitimate expectations of its citizens. i would now like to refer briefly to eu-turkey relations in other areas. the european union welcomes the signing of the readmission agreement last year and looks forward to its swift ratification and full and effective implementation in all member states. progress in the visa liberalisation dialogue will be based on turkey's performance and will depend on the effective and consistent implementation towards the eu and its member states of the preconditions contained in the relevant roadmap as agreed by the council. given that turkey is one of the key transit countries for illegal migration to the european union, the proper implementation of the existing bilateral readmission agreements, as well as the relevant provisions contained in similar agreements, remains a priority. in this context, the adoption of the law on foreigners and international protection is a significant step forward in the field of migration and asylum. in the light of the negotiating framework and previous european council conclusions, turkey should unreservedly commit itself to good neighbourly relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with the charter of the united nations. in this context, the european union has expressed grave concern and urged turkey to avoid any threat or action directed against a member state and any source of tension or action which could harm good neighbourly relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes. in addition, the eu has stressed the importance of respecting the sovereign rights of member states, including the conclusion of bilateral agreements and the exploration and exploitation of their resources, on the basis of the european union acquis and international law, including the convention on the law of the sea. the council also stressed the need to respect the sovereignty of the member states over their territorial waters. we note with deep regret that turkey, despite the indications, continues to refuse to fulfil its obligation to apply the additional protocol to the association agreement fully and without discrimination to all member states. this could give a major impetus to the negotiating process. finally, as a more positive note, we welcome the resumption of talks aimed at a just, comprehensive and sustainable settlement of the cyprus problem within the united nations framework, in accordance with the relevant security council resolutions and on the basis of the principles on which the union is founded. we expect turkey to actively support the ongoing negotiations. the commission's commitment to and contribution to this overall arrangement through concrete actions is vital. thank you for your attention. concluding remarks thank you for the interesting debate, which i believe clearly shows the need to continue to encourage political and economic reforms in turkey. this is the best way forward and we must continue in this direction. as your resolution points out, all sides have much to gain from progress in the accession negotiations and from further political and economic reforms in turkey. the presidency, together with the member states and the commission, is doing everything possible to make progress. i would like to sum up by reminding you that ultimately what will determine the pace of the negotiations is turkey's own ability and willingness to move forward. turkey's progress towards meeting the indicator conditions, the prerequisites of the negotiating framework and the partnership, and its respect for its contractual obligations towards the eu and the member states, continue to be the primary and determining factors. the commission is also aware of the fact that the turkish authorities have not yet taken any steps to ensure that the negotiations are concluded in a timely manner. for our part, we will continue to monitor developments closely. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the european parliament to the wider political process within which we operate: the commitment of the citizens of turkey and the eu member states to democratic dialogue is crucial to ensuring continued support for this important, historic process. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but we should be able to do it.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, presidency and minister, it is a pleasure to see you in these circumstances. i would first of all like to thank ms ria oomen-ruijten for the high quality of her report and for her continuous contribution to european union-turkey relations as rapporteur of this house over the past seven years – what a pleasure it has been to work with you, madam. european union-turkey relations are based on a number of strategic foundations. the accession process is certainly the central one, but others are growing in significance, notably our dialogue and cooperation on foreign policy, our trade relations, our cooperation on mobility and migration and our dialogue on energy issues – these are other aspects that make turkey such a special country for the european union. over the past year, there have been positive developments but also reasons for serious concern. on the positive side, we have opened the accession negotiations on the regional policy chapter – the first chapter opened in more than three years. we have signed the readmission agreement and launched the visa liberalisation dialogue. we have also launched the evaluation of the customs union to assess its strengths and weaknesses in order to benefit more from our longstanding trade relations. i understand that the report prepared by the world bank will be presented to the committee on international trade of the european parliament on 20 march. the european union and turkey have continued to engage in an intensive dialogue on foreign policy issues. last but not least, turkey has also played a key role in the resumption of the cyprus settlement talks. unfortunately, as i said, there have also been reasons for serious concern. these relate first and foremost to the government’s response to the recent corruption allegations, in particular the adoption of legislation which affects the functioning of the judiciary and freedom of expression. i have expressed my concerns publicly, and also directly to my turkish counterparts, including foreign affairs minister davutoğlu and european union affairs minister cavusoğlu. we will report extensively on these developments also in our forthcoming progress report in october. i intend to continue and even deepen a resolute, patient and frank engagement with turkey on the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. but in addition, we need to change the way we cooperate in order to ensure that development in the different policy areas goes into the right direction. we need, for instance, to work more closely together before legislation is envisaged and drafted. the commission will approach our turkish counterparts on this basis in the coming weeks to ensure that we have a common understanding on the principles of our cooperation. this is the only way for the european union to remain an anchor of reforms in turkey and to support all those in that country who call for more freedom and democracy. in the meantime, i will continue to urge the council to formulate, at last, a roadmap – or, if you would prefer, opening benchmarks – for chapter 23 of the accession negotiations. this is what turkey itself asked for – so let us take their word for it and let us engage in a constructive dialogue to deliver results on these crucial issues.
i would like to say, madam president, that i am very pleased with the negotiation and agreement process that has taken place. i think that the report is a balanced, positive, pro positive report, in that it refers to our wishes both for the future development of turkey and for relations between the european union and turkey. but i cannot, of course, express the same satisfaction when i assess the situation in the country. we have lived through a year - the year covered by this report - which is not a year that we can assess positively. it started with democratic demonstrations by civil society in gezi park, which were severely repressed. today we have learned of the death of berkin elvan, a teenage boy who has died after nine months of agony, and i think this evocation, this memory, is accompanied by our desire that this type of situation should never happen again in the country. we have also seen difficult situations in the government, with the removal of several ministers, scandals, the continuing problems affecting media professionals and, in general, a picture of uncertainty about a future which in the short term is likely to be decisive. what happens in the coming months and in the municipal and presidential election junctures is going to mark a line that i personally am unable to make a prediction of. in this context, it seems to me that adhering to the precautionary principle, affirming our agreements and commitments, fostering a good relationship and expressing criticisms frankly on facts and not on opinions is the best that can be expected from a report from this parliament.
madam president, i congratulate ria oomen-ruijten on her comprehensive and balanced resolution - as usual - on the accession process of turkey to the european union. a long, as has been said, complex process which has led this country to make important reforms at political and economic level. a path of reform that must go forward and not backwards. respect for fundamental rights, the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary are the basic pillars of the democratic architecture of a european state. the turkish authorities must be fully aware of these requirements at a delicate time in the country. i therefore think that the favourable position of the ria oomen-ruijten resolution should be considered - and i think also that you, mr commissioner, should address chapters 23 and 24 on fundamental rights and justice and home affairs at an early stage. this would enable the union to monitor these issues, which are so fundamental to the structure of the state, more closely. i also welcome the signing of the readmission agreement. turkey, because of its geographical location, plays a very important role in managing the migration flows into the union. your cooperation is essential. and its policy on visas for third countries should be coordinated as closely as possible with the european union, which i do not know if it is. ladies and gentlemen, the european union is at a critical juncture in our neighbourhood, both in the south and in the east. think of the situations created by the so-called arab spring, the war in syria and the situation in ukraine, for example. turkey, because of its geographical location and its links with muslim countries, should be a major partner with whom the union should have a serious dialogue on its policy towards neighbouring countries.
madam president, i would like to emphasize something which i consider to be fundamental in the accession process of turkey. i think it is crucial to stress an aspect already mentioned in the text: the solution of the kurdish question. turkey's accession is not possible without a democratic solution to the kurdish conflict. the peace negotiations have given rise to immense hope and real expectations among the population. that is why we must encourage the progress of the peace process between the government and the pkk. both sides must respect the compromise. the pkk must lay down its arms and continue its struggle peacefully, and the turkish government must respect its commitments, namely reforms on the right to education in the mother tongue, whether kurdish or any other language spoken by turkey's ethnic minorities, the recognition of kurdish and other minorities' identity in the constitution and, finally, the removal of the electoral threshold.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr hans-peter mayer, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on package travel and package-related services, amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 and directive 2011/83/eu and repealing directive 90/314/eec (com ((2013) 0512 - c7-0215/2013 - 2013/0246cod)) (a7-0124/2014).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on fluorinated greenhouse gases (com ((2012) 0643 - c7-0370/2012 - 2012/0305 ((cod)) (a7-0240/2013).
member of the commission. - mr president, the approval of a revised eu f-gas regulation sets an important legislative precedent for controlling hfcs, which are extremely powerful greenhouse gases. it will make a significant contribution to reducing europe’s impact on the climate by reducing emissions from this source by two thirds by 2030. it is not small things we are talking about here; they are quite substantial. without this measure we would – in the best case – only see a stabilisation at today’s levels, while what we need to achieve our long-term climate targets are significant reductions. i must say that i am particularly grateful to parliament for supporting the commission in maintaining the proposed level of ambition in the sometimes difficult trilogue discussions. special thanks of course in this respect go to the rapporteur bas eickhout, but also to the shadow rapporteurs. i know that there were some challenging meetings and a lot of flexibility was wanted on the other side, but you managed to get the flexibility needed in order to achieve an agreement while at the same time keeping the ambition level. thank you very much for that. furthermore, it is also encouraging that there is broad support among stakeholders for the compromise reached, which in the end was also accepted by unanimity in council. the new regulation will not only reduce emissions in the eu but will have a direct impact globally. increased eu demand for alternative technologies is likely to spur innovation and economies of scale in other markets too, hence reducing the costs of a global phase-down of hfcs. this is crucial because, unless other major economies follow europe’s lead, global production and consumption of these extremely powerful greenhouse gases will continue to grow. the swift and effective implementation of the eu regulation as of 2015 will prove that ambitious measures on hfcs are feasible. with this domestic legislation, the eu has gained global leadership on this issue, and we are prepared to use this role in order to make progress at international level too. joint action on hfcs internationally has the potential to reduce the gap between the current level of climate ambition for 2020 and the mitigation efforts needed under the unfccc. therefore, by approving this regulation, we will also make an important contribution to the international climate talks. the montreal protocol process this year will provide opportunities for a more focused discussion on hfcs. the montreal protocol’s technology and economic assessment panel is expected to provide an encouraging assessment of the availability and affordability of alternatives, as well as of the economic and environmental costs and benefits of moving towards low-global-warming-potential alternatives for ozone-depleting substances. an international workshop on this will also be organised as part of the montreal protocol work this july. the eu will actively contribute to this event, which should provide an excellent opportunity to address the concerns of those developing countries that have so far been slowing down the progress of the negotiations. one final point. we have seen, for instance, that china and the us are actually saying at the highest level that they want to reduce in this area. we have not seen much concrete action yet. i hope that this piece of significant european legislation can have an inspirational effect on these other big emitters too. thank you very much for your cooperation.
mr president, we must thank mr eickhout and the other rapporteurs for the work they have done, because it was not easy to legislate on fluorinated gases, given the different interests at stake and the differences - it must be said - between the countries of the north and the south. and these have been in solidarity, especially the north with the south. so you have done a good job and the agreement has been made possible. if we talk about fluorinated gases and say that they are not the most numerous in terms of emissions to the atmosphere, but they are the most harmful, it seems that we are talking about something very remote or very technical. but if we say that they are in our houses, in our refrigerators, in our air conditioners and in some appliances, and that we have to give them an alternative, the thing takes on a certain closeness. it is to this closeness that we have responded in parliament with a report which is perhaps not as ambitious as it should be, but it is very achievable. it is now up to industry - especially the one that was left behind under the previous directive - to step up and join the train of sustainable development in this union. this is the last boarding call for the sustainable union we all want. i am grateful, as i said, for the solidarity between the north and the south. because in the south, air conditioning is not a luxury - it's a necessity in the face of heat waves that kill people - and the reliance on refrigeration is great because of our climate. and that's been understood. there is therefore no longer any reason why the member states should not now take action and, instead of doing as the spanish government is doing 'cutting back on research into alternatives to these gases, leaving their industry stranded', propose to provide alternatives, to investigate and to support the will of this parliament so that these gases can soon disappear in a non-traumatic way, without harming industry but also without harming the fight against climate change or the health of people.
mr president, i am pleased with the content of this text because it is useful, balanced and realistic. we all agree that the most environmentally harmful refrigerants must be phased out. innovation is generating new, less polluting technologies, but innovation has also improved procedures for removing the most dangerous by-products that are generated in the manufacture of fluorocarbon gases. thermal oxidation is no longer the only procedure and i welcome the fact that alternatives to remove these by-products at source are being considered. it is a good way of helping the transformation that the sector has undergone towards alternatives that are really in line with the reduction targets we have set. i can only congratulate you on the work you have done.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would first like to thank ms auconie for her warm words and also for her personal dedication. it is a pleasure this late in the evening to feel that there is something here that really makes it seem that a strong parliament is behind this f-gas proposal. satu hassi, who i can see has now left, brought up the issue of research, suggesting that four newly-identified substances could significantly damage the ozone layer. these reports confirm the commission’s view that continued vigilance is needed to safeguard the substantial past achievements of the montreal protocol, but i am also glad that all those substances identified are already covered by the eu reporting system. this just emphasises that this is an area where new knowledge and new science can bring up new challenges here. at the meetings of the montreal protocol this year, the scientific assessment panel on the protocol will present its triennial assessment report, and the discussions on its conclusions will provide a good opportunity to look further into potential new threats to the ozone layer and how to address them. mr leinen said that there is still work to do. this is definitely true, but with this regulation we are speeding up innovation and spreading best practices. in short, we are actually paving the way by giving a very good example from europe which others can now follow. this is what we need in order to address f-gases, not just in europe, but also internationally. i think we have taken a very important step and i thank you once again for your good cooperation on this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs edit bauer, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights of workers in the context of freedom of movement for workers (com (2013) 0236 - c7-0114/2013 - 2013/0124 (cod)) (a7-0386/2013).
member of the commission. - mr president, this has been a very important debate on an important commission proposal, and this new directive helps to enforce the rights of eu citizens in the european labour market. i must emphasise that parliament has made some very important contributions to strengthen the commission’s original proposal even further. without being exhaustive, i would just mention the protection of the rights of frontier workers – which has been mentioned in this debate – and the addition of the right to be protected from victimisation. this directive will be the first new legislation in this field since 1968. i am very pleased that the legislators have agreed to reinforce the rights of eu mobile workers in this way. this debate has also allowed for some very important clarifications, because perception falls far short of the reality on the ground. for example, with regard to volume, after the crisis started in 2007-2008, the overall numbers of eu migrants or union workers in fact fell sharply, almost to half the pre-crisis level. now, since the low level in 2009, the numbers have recovered somewhat but have still not reached the pre-crisis level of labour mobility within the european union. indeed, since 1[nbsp ]january[nbsp ]2014, when the eu labour market became completely open to romanian and bulgarian nationals, we have not seen any kind of influx of romanian or bulgarian nationals to labour markets that until now have fallen under national legislation. nevertheless, it is true that concerns exist on both sides – on the receiving side, but also on the sending side – on the one hand regarding access to social services and benefits, and on the other regarding the so-called brain drain. we believe that very often these concerns are exaggerated. for example, the brain drain – if it exists – is compensated for by very significant remittances which amount, in certain cases, to 2.5[nbsp ]% or even 3[nbsp ]% of the national gdp of some countries, which should be seen as a very significant transfer and a support to domestic income and resources in the countries of origin of migrant workers. however, on the side of the receiving countries, even if there is a lot of debate about so-called benefit tourism, there is much evidence from sweden and the united kingdom that eu mobile workers are actually net contributors to the national welfare systems. they pay more in taxes and social security contributions than they receive in social benefits or social services. abuse, if it exists, has to be fought, but we believe that it is possible to do this on the basis of existing eu law. we also have to continue our work in order to ensure that there is a better match between supply and demand, for example by reinforcing the european employment services (eures). the commission has put forward a very important proposal for that purpose. i think it is also extremely important – as ms steinruck emphasised – that the existing concerns and temporary difficulties can be addressed on both sides – the sending and the receiving side – by using eu financial instruments, especially the european social fund. to mr clark, i would say that i think it is also very important to clarify that equal rights under the free movement of workers do not mean discrimination against third-country nationals. for example, the fact that in this house there are no chinese or australian members does not mean that there is any discrimination against chinese or australian nationals; it simply means that these countries are not members of the european union. the fact that chinese or australian nationals do not enjoy the same rights under the free movement of workers in the eu is also simply associated with the fact that these countries are not eu members. it is not, in any form, discrimination against those citizens. i hope this serves to clarify the legal aspects of free movement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
mr president, just a few minutes ago mr swoboda was referring to the risk that this new european council would have the two most damaging characteristics of inaction. firstly, that it is dealt with as business as usual and secondly, with a minimum common ambition, with a minimum common denominator which means little ambition. let's talk about energy. just a few weeks ago, this parliament approved its climate targets and approved a renewable energy effort of 30%, an emissions reduction of 40% and an energy efficiency of 40%. what did the commission do? without waiting for parliament's resolution, parliament's decision, he put forward a much less ambitious proposal: a smaller proposal on renewable energy and no energy efficiency target at all. we are told that a proposal on energy efficiency will be tabled in september or october. it is true that it will be the day before this commission ceases to exist, but if mr barroso, who knows a little better spanish, were here, he would recognize the phrase 'it is never too late if the joy is good'. if there is finally an ambition in energy efficiency, it will be welcome. but what's going on? it is true that both the fukushima accident and the new, increasingly efficient technologies and energy insecurity - as the situation in ukraine is showing us - require greater efforts on renewable energy, energy efficiency and interconnection. my group has fought for binding objectives and for more ambitious objectives in this respect. germany is doing so with an ambitious energy policy. other countries, such as spain, unfortunately, do not. they have destroyed the effort in renewable energy and created a chaos in electricity that will surely discourage investment and put us far from the effort we had made.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are at one of those moments when the attention of european citizens is turned to the institutions: we are closer and closer to the european elections and the lights are on on what we have done in these years and what we are promising to do in the years to come. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe probably should have done more, we have done little and the spring council - which is the council traditionally attentive to competitiveness issues - today puts three items on the agenda: the european semester, competitiveness, climate and energy. but are these the only ones we should be looking at or should we be looking at new tools? we need - we think - new elements, we need more flexibility to strengthen growth, we need new financial instruments to support the growth of our business system. the youth guarantee certainly
mr president, commissioner, minister, i repeat the words which the president of my country, our president iñigo urkullu, addressed to european leaders at the global forum spain last week: 'i ask you for a threefold commitment: to people, to jobs and to the real economy'. it is time to put the same effort into rescuing jobs as was put into rescuing banks. the bailed out banks must return the public effort, greasing the economy with credit to entrepreneurs, because the solution is in the real economy, in human capital, in people, in young people and women, who are the actors of the real economy, not in financial speculation. economic development yes, but with social development. and it is better to propose and encourage the chinese to work like us than to try to compete by working without social protection and among clouds of poisonous smoke. because the world is not sustainable. i am therefore sorry that mr barroso has left, but i would like that to be the message you take to the next european council in march and to the high-level event which, as you have announced, will take place in september in new york.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, let me first of all thank you for this very serious and substantive debate on the issues concerning the upcoming european council. i must say that i was tempted at some points to raise my blue card to question some of the arguments – not only those of mr farage – but i could not find it on my table. so i will make some points now and some counter-points by way of conclusion. as you will recall, during the last plenary we discussed the european semester at length. last week’s commission winter forecast does indeed confirm that europe’s economic recovery is now gaining ground. the recovery is leaning more on domestic demand and has become more broad-based across the member states, including most of the vulnerable member states. last week we published our analysis and conclusions, which emerged from the in-depth economic reviews carried out into 17 member states’ economies. our analysis shows that the member states are making progress in addressing their economic challenges, but that this progress is uneven and, in many cases, must be stepped up – especially in fighting unemployment, which is intolerably high in many countries. we expect to see a strong response from the member states, and we stand ready to support them in a constructive partnership for reforms to strengthen the recovery and boost job creation. the key message of the commission to the large euro-area member states has been – and continues to be – that there is a pressing need in italy and france to intensify economic reforms for the sake of growth, competitiveness and job creation, while there is a clear need to reinforce domestic demand, especially domestic investment – public and private – in germany. with this complementary and synthetic economic strategy we and they can do the best service to sustainable economic growth and job creation in europe, and that is what we need. it is therefore essential that we stay the course of reform in all the member states. this concerns not just economic reforms but also the broad range of reforms that are essential to restore competitiveness and ensure sustainable growth in europe. it also concerns tax evasion, an issue which was raised by several speakers, the last being ms[nbsp ]gomes. this is important, not only for economic efficiency by getting tax revenues for the sovereign, but also in terms of social fairness so that people can see that the burden is being shared equally in society. mr daul referred to jean-claude juncker. i am very much looking forward to working with my former colleague and friend, jean-claude juncker, in intensifying the fight against tax evasion – including in luxembourg, which can be made the benchmark in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the commission welcomes the summit’s focus on industrial competitiveness and climate and energy policies. the european union is the global leader when it comes to fighting climate change. i listened very carefully to ms[nbsp ]harms and i have to say that, with due respect, the greens seem to be doing a disservice to europe by underestimating our crucial contribution and leadership in fighting climate change. this is recognised by such authorities as al gore, nicholas stern and ban ki-moon, and i think it is very important that we do not shoot ourselves in the foot. al gore, nicholas stern and ban ki-moon and other authorities in the field of climate policies recognise the leadership of the european union and of the commission. green growth must be turned into a competitive advantage that can deliver not only technological advancement but also economic growth and jobs. i am convinced that europe needs to be big in big things and small in small things. this also applies to the areas of climate and energy policies, the single market and the new industrial policy. europe needs to set the overall goals and provide rules for this but to let the member states decide about implementation and choose their individual strengths and then let the markets function and enterprises find the most innovative solutions, for instance in the fields of bio-economy and clean tech. our analysis shows that the most cost-effective way to achieve our ambitious objectives was to have one leading european target for greenhouse gas reductions with a well-functioning emissions trading scheme. this framework, combined with continued broad economic reforms in order to restore competitiveness, will promote economic recovery in europe and enable us to emerge from the crisis with a stronger and more sustainable economy than before. let me conclude by saying that this key debate will be followed by a debate on ukraine. let me simply underline that europe will support the right of the ukrainian people to decide on their own course regarding european orientation. as we want to help ukraine stabilise the security situation, it is essential to create the conditions for economic stabilisation and development. to that end, last week we sent a fact-finding mission to ukraine with a view to assessing the prospective financing needs of the country. we are now analysing the findings of this mission and are in close contact with the imf, whose own mission is still on the ground in kiev. last week the european council endorsed the multi-year support package for ukraine announced by the commission the day before. in the immediate short term, eur[nbsp ]1.6 billion can be gradually made available soon in the form of conditional loans in the framework of macro-financial assistance. this includes, in addition to the existing eur[nbsp ]600 million operation, a new mfa operation of about eur[nbsp ]1 billion that we intend to disburse urgently, as soon as an imf programme is in place. this will, of course, be conditional upon economic reforms that will make the ukrainian economy more resilient, more sustainable and, in particular, more capable of creating sustained welfare for ordinary ukrainians, especially by getting serious about fighting corruption. i trust we all recognise that the emergency in ukraine requires the swift adoption of this package. to this end, i count on the support of parliament.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, honourable members, thank you for this interesting debate. we have heard a wide range of interventions on the various issues – all inter-related – which are on the agenda for next week’s european council. all these issues go hand in hand; even our concerns about developments in ukraine can only be addressed if we deal with them in a serious and coordinated manner, and that cannot be separated entirely from our record on economic and social policies. some of you have underlined the social aspects. i agree with you that this is a vital part of the european union which is based on the notion of the social market economy. if there appears to be an imbalance between market and social elements, then that is mainly because social policy still lies largely in the hands of the member states. we coordinate and we share experiences, but the responsibility lies primarily at national level. economic recovery in europe is there, but it reminds fragile, so we have to continue to take the semester process very seriously. it is only one of many tools but it is an important part of our europe-wide strategy for ensuring sustained economic growth and job creation. as was mentioned by many members of this parliament, progress has been achieved: in the area of economic governance, important financial regulations have been mentioned, such as the growth and stability pact and the very important measures taken by the european central bank. banking union is, of course, of vital importance. it is our ambition, as the greek presidency, to have the single resolution mechanism adopted during the mandate of this european parliament. a crucial trilogue will take place here today in strasbourg at 15.00 with the greek finance minister and the president of the eurogroup. our presidency has received a new mandate. let us hope that this will be a solid basis for a compromise, otherwise i think we will have to go back to our governments and ask for a more flexible mandate. i would say, and i conclude, that this is a matter of the credibility of the european union as a whole.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the russian invasion of ukraine (2014/2627 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, the situation in ukraine is one of the most serious crises in europe in recent years. what happens in our neighbourhood matters, as it has implications for all european nations. the sovereignty of ukraine should be safeguarded. the most immediate priority must now be to find a peaceful solution to the current crisis, one which is fully in line with international law. the deputy prime minister and minister for foreign affairs of greece, mr[nbsp ]venizelos, had the opportunity to visit kiev and mariupol on 2[nbsp ]march, to assess the situation on the ground and convey the european union’s clear message. he thoroughly briefed the council during the extraordinary session of 3[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014 which prepared the european council on ukraine that followed. last week’s extraordinary meeting of eu heads of state or government, as well as the extraordinary meeting of the foreign affairs council, provided important opportunities both to assess the latest developments in ukraine and to send a clear message on a number of points. as you know, the heads of state or government had a lengthy and productive discussion with the newly-appointed prime minister of ukraine, arseniy yatsenyuk. they commended the measured response shown so far by the new ukrainian government and encouraged the authorities to pursue their efforts to ensure free and fair elections, advance constitutional reform and investigate all acts of violence. the ukrainian authorities need to ensure inclusiveness at all levels of government. this must involve reaching out to all ukrainian regions and population groups and ensuring full protection of the rights of people belonging to national minorities, in accordance with ukraine’s international commitments. in line with the position taken by the extraordinary foreign affairs council of 3[nbsp ]march, the heads of state or government strongly condemned the violation of ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity by the russian federation. they called on the russian federation to withdraw its armed forces immediately to the areas of their permanent stationing, in accordance with the relevant agreements and to allow immediate access to international monitors. the solution to the crisis in ukraine must be based on the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of ukraine, according to international law. in this connection, leaders agreed that the decision by the supreme council of the autonomous republic of crimea to hold a referendum on the future status of this territory is contrary to the ukrainian constitution and therefore illegal. it is now particularly important that the ukrainian and russian sides talk to each other without delay, including through possible multilateral mechanisms. these must produce results within a limited timeframe. the heads of state or government announced that the european union would also participate in the multilateral contact or coordination group being set up to de-escalate the situation. this should have as its objectives, among others, to build confidence between the parties; watch over the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine; protect all citizens against intimidation from all sides; observe the rights of minorities, including their linguistic rights; help to prepare free and fair elections; and monitor implementation of agreements and commitments. as regards russia, the european union wants a relationship with russia based on trust, mutual interest and respect for international obligations. it is clear, that at present, there cannot be ‘business as usual’. the heads of state or government therefore decided to take action, including the action envisaged by the council on 3[nbsp ]march. this includes the suspension of bilateral talks with the russian federation on visa matters, as well as on the new agreement. they also supported the decision of the european members of the g8 and the eu institutions to suspend their participation in g8 summit preparations until further notice. in the absence of results in the framework of negotiations between the governments of ukraine and the russian federation to resolve the crisis, the european union will decide on additional measures such as travel bans, freezing of assets and the cancellation of the eu-russia summit. the commission and the european external action service will be undertaking preparatory work on these measures. this is not to say that we do not value our relations with russia, which are important for peace and stability in europe. russia is an essential strategic partner. however, the council was clear: any further destabilisation in ukraine would seriously affect eu-russia relations in a broad range of economic areas. we stand ready to assist ukraine and provide it with strong financial backing to help stabilise the economic and financial situation. to this end, the european union has prepared a package of immediate short-term and medium-term measures offering trade, technical, economic and financial assistance. the immediate priority is to achieve ukraine’s macroeconomic stability through fiscal, monetary and exchange-rate policies. we also expect ukraine to take action urgently to launch ambitious structural reform, including the fight against corruption and for transparency. the council has already decided to freeze and recover the assets of persons identified as being responsible for the misappropriation of state funds. the eu is committed to signing the association agreement, including a deep and comprehensive free trade area. this would bring significant opportunities for economic development and increased prosperity for the whole of ukraine, including crimea, as well as its neighbours. it was agreed that the eu would sign the political part of the association agreement as a matter of priority. we also intend to adopt unilateral measures which would allow ukraine to benefit substantially from the advantages offered in the deep and comprehensive free trade area, even before the signature of this agreement. such measures would entail an offer to apply provisions related to the import of goods by reducing tariffs and opening tariff rate quotas by means of so-called autonomous trade measures. the eu is also committed to enhancing people-to-people contacts between the eu and ukraine, including through the visa liberalisation process, in line with the agreed conditions in the framework of the visa liberalisation action plan. the issue of energy and energy security must not be forgotten. it represents an important part of the union’s external relations, and we will continue our efforts to ensure a secure energy supply. the eu is prepared to help ukraine to secure its own energy supply through diversification, better energy efficiency and effective interconnection with the european union. the eu must, in addition, seek to strengthen its political association and gradual economic integration with georgia and the republic of moldova. heads of state or government confirmed the aim of signing the association agreements, including deep and comprehensive free trade areas, by the end of august[nbsp ]2014 at the latest. let me conclude by underlining that de-escalation of the situation in ukraine remains the key priority. it is essential now for russia and ukraine to talk to each other. the european union is ready to help, and also to help the ukrainian people on an economic, financial and technical level. we believe that russia also believes the objective of peace and stability in the region and on our continent to be of the highest priority and in our clear common interest.
president of the commission. - mr president, president of the council, honourable members, very serious concerns remain over the situation in ukraine, and i would like to start by saying how grateful we are for the constant attention that this parliament has been giving to this most important crisis. i know that parliament as an institution and many of you in this room have been putting considerable energy and time into helping to find a solution, and i hope that we can put all our efforts along the same lines into supporting ukraine, which is a european country. ukraine was also the subject of an extraordinary meeting of heads of state and government last week, part of which was also attended by the ukrainian prime[nbsp ]minister yatsenyuk. today i want to share with you the results of that meeting, and specifically to tell you what the european commission has been doing to support ukraine in these very challenging times. not only have we been supporting the legitimate aspirations of the ukrainians, we have also been doing our best for regional and international peace. the developments, which started with the people of ukraine expressing a clear wish to take their future into their own hands, call for a robust and united european response. the current situation directly challenges us in many ways and forms. it challenges our conscience as individuals; it challenges our unity as europeans; it challenges our policies as decision makers; and it challenges some of the values that we hold dear, such as peace and democracy. this is, in a way, a test of our union. the outcome of the current situation will have a great impact on the geopolitical configuration of our continent in the years to come. what happened in crimea was an unprovoked and unacceptable violation of ukrainian sovereignty and its territorial integrity. in the aftermath of this violation, alongside other g7 leaders, the president of the european council and i – on behalf of the european union – have strongly and unequivocally condemned this action. today at 12.30 central european time, we will release another statement that will leave no doubts about the determination of g7 countries and the european union. we call on the russian federation to cease all efforts to annex ukraine’s autonomous republic of crimea. honourable members, the current situation remains very tense, so we need to take a very principled but also a very responsible approach. the ukrainian people have already shed too much blood in this process. no more lives should be put at risk. our immediate goal and objective should be to de-escalate the situation and find a peaceful solution to the current crisis, in full respect of international law. any attempt to legitimise a referendum in crimea is contrary to the ukrainian constitution and is quite clearly illegal under international law. we have been offering russia the possibility of direct talks through the international mechanisms that are available – including a possible contact group – in full respect of the principles of the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. so far, unfortunately – and as you know – this has been to no avail. high representative/vice-president catherine ashton remains very active and is in constant contact with her counterparts, and i would like to praise her role. meanwhile, however, the financial and economic situation has already deteriorated dramatically, and we have not lost any time in mobilising a support package to help stem the tide and help ukraine to stabilise its economic and financial situation. i am proud that the commission was quickly able to propose an overall support package of at least eur[nbsp ]11 billion from the european budget and from european union-based international financial institutions for the short and medium term. this was proof that we can react quickly; that we can show solidarity; that we can rise to the challenge. as you know, this package was welcomed by our member states in the european council, and the prime minister of ukraine specifically expressed his gratitude for this initiative. some of the measures can be put into practice immediately. indeed, just yesterday, commissioner de gucht and i publicly presented the commission proposal to frontload unilaterally the trade parts of the association agreement, so that ukraine can benefit from tariff reductions and tariff rate quotas even before the deep and comprehensive free trade area is fully applied. this will save the ukrainian economy around eur[nbsp ]500 million a year in tariff cuts. i hope we can count on your active commitment and that of the council to fast-track the approval process. (applause) we also immediately dispatched a mission from our services to identify the economic and financial needs of the ukrainian authorities. i can announce that next week, on 19[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014, the commission will propose macro-financial assistance of an additional eur[nbsp ]1 billion. this amount will bring our total macro-financial assistance to eur[nbsp ]1.6 billion, and it is a very concrete demonstration of our solidarity to help ukraine face its short-term difficulties. however, it is crucial that this is part of a wider international effort where other international financial institutions, such as the imf and the world bank, as well as our member states bilaterally and international partners, can also participate. i would like to thank olli rehn and his services for moving quickly on this, and i would like to add a special word of thanks to štefan füle for his constant and strong engagement in this file. at the same time, it is equally crucial to underline that this aid package is not a quick fix and that it needs to be complemented by, on the other side, a reform-oriented and inclusive ukrainian government that is committed to fixing the current state of their financial system and rebuilding the economic foundations of the country both during the current transition phase and in the medium to long term. at the summit meeting last week, we also decided that we will sign the political chapters of the association agreement before the presidential elections that will take place in may. this will seal the political association of ukraine with the european union, as has been wished for by its people in such a clear manner during these past months. this can naturally be followed by the entry into force of the remaining parts of the association agreement/dcfta after the presidential elections. we also reconfirmed our intention to sign association agreements and dcftas with georgia and moldova before the end of august. the european union has been pro-active and united throughout this crisis, and i am sure this will also be the case when the european council discusses the next steps next week. this is vital for ukraine’s stability and prosperity, and for our credibility. the ball is currently in russia’s court and, as we speak, the diplomatic, political and military situation has not yet started moving in the right direction. last week’s meeting of heads of state and government took a gradual approach to the measures we are ready to take in response to the current situation, so as to send an unambiguous signal that going further down this path will have consequences whilst at the same time preventing further entrenchment of the conflict from our side. our dialogue on visa facilitation and liberalisation, the discussions on the new agreement and the preparations for the g8 meeting in sochi have already been suspended. if meaningful negotiations do not begin within the next few days and produce results within a limited time frame, this will trigger additional measures. a further deterioration of the situation could lead to far-reaching consequences, which i sincerely hope can be avoided. honourable members, i have been working together with the commission and also with the member states for the last ten years to build a constructive relationship with russia, while supporting our neighbours’ efforts and sovereign choices to reform, modernise and build closer relations with the european union. our relationship with our eastern partners does not have to be an exclusive one. our model of engagement is that of open regionalism, not of autarchic self-entrenchment. we are not asking nor even suggesting to our partners from the eastern neighbourhood to turn their backs on russia. on the contrary, we encourage them to have good neighbourly relations and enhance their traditional trade ties. but at the same time, russia needs to accept fully the right of these countries to decide their own future and the nature of the relations they choose to have with russia. the pages of last century’s history should be turned and not re-written. i believe in a european continent where the rule of law prevails over the rule of force, sovereignty is shared and not limited, and the logic of cooperation replaces the logic of confrontation. we do not need new cold wars, and we certainly do not want them. security does not come from segregation, separating communities, building fences, but by embracing differences and diversity. ukraine should not be a border between neighbours that do not speak to each other but a bridge where they can meet. ukraine should not be seen as a problem for europe but as an asset for a more united european continent. on the basis of these principles, i think we can say that a united, inclusive, stable and prosperous ukraine can only be of benefit to all its neighbours and partners. the european union remains committed to that goal: to ukraine’s unity and to european peace.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr president of the commission, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this is not the time to dwell on the inadequacies of the european union's external action, but to promote coherent and effective action to try to avoid an escalation leading to open conflict and to mobilise the international community to try to get russia to back down from this insane attempt to annex crimea, which really takes us back to the 1930s. the european parliament resolution condemns these acts as clearly contrary to the charter of the united nations, the helsinki final act, the budapest memorandum and the bilateral agreements between russia and ukraine. the referendum which is to be held next sunday must be clearly rejected as illegal and illegitimate, and the ukrainian government must be supported, mr president of the commission. we welcome this financial package from the commission, the swift signing of the association agreement or the political chapters, the progress of trade measures, and i think that the european union should also promote an international donor conference to alleviate this situation. we also believe that international mediation through the osce and the united nations would be decisive in guaranteeing the security, territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine, and i believe, mr president, that we must take into account the sanctions measures proposed by the european council in the event of such a de-escalation of tension. and finally, mr president, i would like to remind you that mrs timoshenko told us last week in dublin that russia will go as far as the international community allows it to go on this issue. and because we do not develop effective and rapid action, the consequences of this conflict are absolutely unpredictable.
mr president, a referendum is scheduled for this sunday in crimea, a referendum which is totally illegal. it stems from a previous russian occupation, in clear violation of international law. in addition, the crimean region, according to the ukrainian constitution, does not have the right to call such a referendum. by the way, yesterday's declaration of the crimean assembly is also illegal. with these actions, russia may seize crimea, but it certainly cannot normalize its relations with the union. the european union cannot recognize that referendum or its results. the referendum must be called off and russia must enter into a dialogue with the kiev authorities in search of formulas for relations that respect the territorial integrity of the country of ukraine and international law. the european union is ready to contribute to this dialogue. what role, if any, is the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, playing in this crisis? we, the european union, cannot remain indifferent to what is happening. i am afraid that unfortunately russia and the european union have very different views on international law and the use of force. it is regrettable that in the 21st century such differences between countries on the european continent still exist. we should have values, principles and interests... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. - mr president, i am pleased that we also have among us mr poroshenko and his delegation. let me share with you four points which reflect the very important and significant debate you have just had. under the first point, let me recall that the referendum organised in crimea on sunday infringes the very essence of international law as regards state sovereignty and the inviolability of territorial integrity, as well as the ukrainian constitution. it poses a major threat to the stability of borders in europe. the european union condemns the circumstances and the questions proposed for the referendum, which it considers illegal, illegitimate and its outcome invalid. furthermore, the proposed russian bill that provides for even easier annexation of foreign territories – on the basis of an alleged threat to a russian minority there and without a corresponding treaty with the relevant neighbouring state – would likewise go against international laws and principles. but this is not only about crimea. it is the most serious challenge to the helsinki process we have seen so far. that is why what is going on in crimea is happening much closer to us than many of us – many of you – are ready to accept. secondly, let us do everything in our power to help the russian leader not to make yet another grave mistake for which his successors – since history teaches us certain lessons – would have to apologise, as they have already done in the past. such a mistake would turn the multipolar world into a zero-polar world, where the only rule that applies is that there are no rules. my third point is that we must help and support ukraine, not only in its measured reaction so far but also in assisting that country to become a democratic country with an accountable government free of corruption, with justice for all and the active involvement of civil society – a state which guarantees the rights of all citizens and all minorities. my fourth point is that we should not forget the citizens of moldova and georgia – and many others in eastern european regions – who aspire to the values and principles on which the european union is based. in conclusion, the council, the commission – and, following this debate, i also strongly believe this house – are not only principled, responsible and united in their readiness to adopt concrete measures, but also principled, responsible and united in offering, at the same time, political dialogue to de-escalate the situation and find a peaceful solution, because that is the way forward.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, we insist on the need for russia to engage in a dialogue with ukraine in order to find a negotiated way out of the crisis, in full respect of international law and the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of ukraine. there are a number of bilateral or multilateral mechanisms available. the objectives of this dialogue should be to rebuild confidence between the parties, to respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine, to protect all citizens against intimidation, and to respect the rights of all minorities. we remain worried by the lack of any de-escalation on the ground. the referendum organised in crimea on sunday infringes international law as regards state sovereignty and the inviolability of territorial integrity, as well as the ukrainian constitution. we will not recognise the outcome. the statement of the heads of state or government on 6[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014 was very clear on this point. the european union and the russian federation share an important strategic relationship. some of the members referred to the energy relationship – to the south stream. let me remind you that there is also the north stream. but, as stated in the statement of the heads of states of 6[nbsp ]march, the european union is ready to engage in a frank and open dialogue with the russian federation. the eu has a special responsibility for peace, stability and prosperity in europe. the european union’s and russia’s common objective of a relationship based on mutual interest and respect for international obligations needs to be promptly restored. it would be a matter of great regret if russia failed to work in that direction. when it comes to measures against russia, the heads of state and government have decided to take a gradual approach. the measures already taken are known. additional measures are under preparation, including targeted sanctions if there are no signs of de-escalation. equally, or even more importantly, there are measures to help ukraine – the president of the commission has already referred to the economic package. regarding visa liberalisation for ukrainian citizens, the european union supports this objective. in its conclusions of 20[nbsp ]february[nbsp ]2014, the council encouraged member states to make optimal use of the flexibilities of the visa code and of the visa facilitation agreement. let me conclude by thanking parliament for organising this debate. it has been valuable for all of us to share our very serious concerns about these developments. i take away from this debate some of the very strong feelings which have been expressed by many members, and i will relay them to the council and to the president of the european council. as i said in my opening remarks, what happens in ukraine affects us all. we have to work to find a peaceful solution to this crisis in full respect of international law.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. in ukraine, the springtime european utopia that we who suffered under a dictatorship have always dreamed of has sprung up in the middle of winter in the square of kiev. we must support this struggle of ukraine for freedom and territorial sovereignty. the russian invasion is as intolerable and illegitimate as it was in prague in 1968 or, earlier, in budapest. napoleon invaded my country saying he was called by the king and the people. and, to save distance, the military occupation of cyprus, or the no less illegitimate occupation of western sahara by morocco, is always intolerable. let us be clear about this: our european brothers in ukraine are so europe-oriented that they are not the corrupt capital-drainers of the city of london, nor the far right, which is so eurosceptic here.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains justified references to the eradication of poverty, it does not at any time condemn the military interventions of the united states of america in pakistani territory. the report merely 'takes note' of the drone bombings that have claimed the lives of many civilians. these are the first experiments in this type of war crime which cannot be prosecuted because, according to some doctrines of international humanitarian law, there is no material actor in the events. the use of such weapons can set serious precedents and that is why, despite sharing some of the criticisms made in this report, i could not vote in favour of it.
in writing. - in favour. pakistan’s strategic role in the region, its relationship to its neighbours and eu-pakistan relations are of major and growing importance to the eu, given the country’s pivotal location at the heart of a volatile neighbourhood, its centrality to security and development in central and south asia, and its crucial role in combating terrorism, non-proliferation, drug trafficking, human trafficking and other transnational threats, all of which affect the security and well-being of european citizens.
in writing. - the report welcomes nato’s ballistic missile defence (bmd) project and calls on the eu to contribute. it also intends to promote the idea of linking nato’s bmd to the eu’s common security and defence policy (csdp). therefore, i could not support this proposal.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is part of the militaristic ideology which the european union is implementing with its increasingly evident approximation to the principles of nato. the introduction of a missile shield is nothing more than the continuation, with public money, of a military race which only increases the insecurity of the entire planet and, in the final analysis, benefits the arms companies. my group has tabled an alternative resolution calling for global disarmament, the non-financing of military spending from the eu budget and the dissolution of nato, among other things. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - against. we promoted an alternative motion (minority one) rejecting the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a courageous and realistic attempt to combat, with effective, legal and applicable tools, the dumping of european canned goods by some of the products entering our market, particularly from thailand. this report documents very explicitly where the problems lie and why our canned tuna, especially tuna, is suffering on the market from competition which is not based on the quality or efficiency of our competitors but on social and labour practices which are unacceptable, highly questionable from a health point of view and unsustainable from the point of view of fishing techniques. the european union has a number of important tasks to perform, including the development of a common maritime policy, the promotion of the maritime sector and the promotion of the maritime sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it incorporates the democratic principles, respect for human rights, environmental, hygiene and health standards (from the time fish are caught), labour rights (ilo standards) and social conditions in the framework of the agreement currently being negotiated by the european commission with the asian country. we also call on the european commission to obtain the necessary guarantees from thailand to prevent illegal fishing and the marketing of products from such fishing, and to combat trafficking in human beings and the exploitation and enslavement of children. the agreement should ensure the competitiveness and sustainability of the european industry, preserving its activity and social dimension and ensuring that access to the eu market for thai fish and seafood preserves and preparations remains subject to its current tariff and therefore excluded from tariff liberalisation, in the interests of the competitiveness of the eu tuna industry.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a strategy to avoid the need to reach a regional association agreement with asean and to develop agreements on their main trade interests on a bilateral basis. negotiations on the association agreement with asean started in 2007 and have not progressed due to the clash of commercial interests between the two blocs. the agreement promotes the interests of the large european fisheries, formally respecting environmental and traceability criteria, but this type of bilateral agreements are being implemented to undermine the asean union and to make european economic interests prevail over those of the asian countries mentioned. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - in favour. europe’s fisheries sector faces a number of challenges: the fishing sector as such is having to cope with rising fuel costs, a shortage of manpower and quota restrictions. the processing sector is suffering from limited supplies of raw materials and competition from imports from third countries. the aquaculture sector is also faced with competition from imports, low prices for certain species, strict environmental regulations and conflicts over the use of space. the situation currently experienced by the european fisheries sector dramatically weakens its competitive position, especially when the global market is being liberalised and certain developing countries with abundant marine resources are starting to become the new fishing powers.
in writing. - 80% of tuna is canned. thailand is the world's leading producer of canned tuna, accounting for 46% of world production, compared with 21% in the eu. the eu is the world's largest importer of fishery products with a growing demand, especially for prepared and preserved tuna products from thailand and other asean countries, which account for almost half of world production. the negotiations for the free trade agreement with thailand may have a significant impact on the european canning industry, which generates 25[nbsp ]000 direct and 54[nbsp ]000 indirect jobs and is concentrated in regions highly dependent on fishing such as galicia, brittany, the azores, the basque country and sardinia. it can also have a major impact on trade relations with developing countries and the acp group of countries. i support the fact that canned tuna is treated as a highly sensitive product in relations with thailand, excluded from tariff concessions and subject to trade safeguard clauses. the eu must uphold human rights and ensure conditions of fair competition that require responsible fishing practices, traceability and compliance with equivalent labour, health or environmental standards in line with international rules.
in writing. - i think this report on food culture education is fundamental because it portrays and confronts the root of some of our great problems. eating is fundamental to life, but it's much more than a mechanical act. it is a social act that links the producers of raw materials with the final consumers, with the intervention of two basic factors: knowledge and emotionality. a good meal is an expression of knowledge, but it's also an expression of affection. when it has these characteristics, it becomes a work of art. so it's also a development factor. eating, in some places, is a unique experience and there are many people willing to pay very well for it. such a heritage is worth not losing.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr fisas. gastronomy and cuisine have become an increasingly important form of artistic and cultural expression and are one of the fundamental pillars of family and social relations, and gastronomy has also become an essential element of tourism. in recent years, diet has become a very important factor in modern society. poor or inadequate diet is the main cause of such diseases as obesity, anorexia, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and gastric problems. it is therefore vital to focus on the educational aspects of nutrition and gastronomy. member states should include in early childhood education the study of food, nutritional health and eating habits, including historical, geographical, cultural and experimental aspects.
in writing. - the report reminds of the necessity of a healthy food culture and eating habits to preserve good health, preventing diseases through a proper nutrition (and exercise...). it insists also on the value of enjoying not only well balanced meals but also the social life developed around the preparation of food and the degustation. satisfaction at eating together is a "substantial element of psychological and emotional balance". economically, healthy eating habits mean less health problems later on and costs; furthermore, gastronomy has become an "essential element of tourism" and source of regional activities in promotion and development. the most important aspect in the report are the recommendations for education, from an early age, to nutrition and prevention of obesity, review of school meals, training to gastronomy-sector workers. furthermore, since i am basque and our gastronomy heritage is well known, what can i do other than support the report?
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an interesting contribution from the european parliament to the promotion of a new food system in the european union. recognising the importance of europe's gastronomic heritage is fundamental to understanding its links with the territories and different products that form part of the cultural and agro-biological landscape of the european union. only by defending the diversity and differences in food production in the different regions can this heritage be effectively defended; this resolution is therefore against agribusiness and large multinationals. it is because of the defence of a diverse and sustainable agri-food system that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. developments in recent years have highlighted that diet, in its broadest sense, is extraordinarily important in modern society. on the one hand, in terms of the millennium goals, greater efforts need to be made to end hunger and problems relating to drinking water supply in all those countries which still suffer this scourge of humanity, which is absolutely inadmissible in the 21st century. on the other hand, it is surprising to see how, in reasonably affluent developed countries, a lack of culture and/or education has turned food into a root cause of illnesses and conditions which generate huge expenditure in public and private health systems.
in writing. - the introduction of these specific courses in the school curricula of the member states will help to promote a culinary culture and healthy eating habits which are becoming less and less widespread, especially among young people and children, who are increasingly attracted by the so-called 'junk food'. the reality of increasing obesity coupled with the increasingly common eating disorders, leading to such sad realities as anorexia and bulimia, make the implementation and development of these courses more than necessary. it is particularly surprising that this should happen in a place like europe, whose culinary diversity and richness are unparalleled in the world and whose tradition in this field should be part of the cultural heritage like other forms of art, especially when this art also manages to enhance the health of its citizens. the knowledge of this cultural heritage should be encouraged and made known as an added value.
in writing. - data protection regulation is of paramount importance to the hospitality sector, as hospitality establishments deal with the processing of personal data (including names, telephone contacts, e-mail addresses, etc.), and will therefore be affected by the new regulation. i regret that certain amendments, adopted by the libe committee and included in the final text, involve additional administrative and financial costs which are unbearable for the hotel industry in times of crisis. a clear example is the obligation for smes to appoint a data protection officer and to develop impact assessments, even if their activities do not constitute a risk to the data subject.
in writing. - as far as i am concerned, i think that the report of our colleague albrecht is a real step forwards in the protection of individual data. he has done a great job! the charter of fundamental rights clearly establishes individuals’ rights to see their personal data protected, and this new regulation does just that.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the protection of personal data of natural persons with regard to the processing of such data in the various member states of the european union. the report seeks to address the problems and gaps in the various legislation dealing with the subject at european level. these legislative problems are exploited by many actors to exploit the personal data of european citizens for all kinds of commercial purposes. the over-exploitation of this data is a clear problem, which reaches cases where people and their families are persecuted simply for having provided some data in an attempt to sell at home. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the union has an explicit legal basis for data protection covering processing of personal data in the public and private sector but also in the context of law enforcement (resulting from the collapse of the pre-lisbon ‘pillar structure’) (article 16(2) tfeu). the commission has now used article 16(2) tfeu as a legal basis to present proposals for a revision of the union’s data protection framework. it proposes a regulation (com (2012)11) that will replace directive 95/46/ec (rapporteur: jan philipp albrecht, greens/efa) and a directive (com(2012)10) that will replace framework decision 2008/977/jha on the protection of personal data processed for the purpose of prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of criminal offences (rapporteur: dimitrios droutsas, s&d). both rapporteurs support the objective of establishing a fully coherent, harmonious and robust framework with a high level of protection for all data-processing activities in the eu. in order to achieve this objective the commission proposals must be considered a single package requiring coordinated legislative approaches for both texts.
in writing. - in this new world, where the global is a reality as a result of the widespread implementation of new technologies, it was necessary to adapt existing legislation to the exponential changes that have occurred in recent decades. personal data is becoming more and more numerous and its security is increasingly exposed. the adoption of this legislative package will cover the full range of data circulating in the european union, from the data generated by the popularity of social networks to the data generated by the increasingly widespread use of electronic commerce, not to mention the databases generated by networked services already in use for universities, banks, hospitals, etc., and for any customer in general of european companies. the owners of such data are the data subjects and the consent to their use by such companies in general, and to and from third parties, must be clearly stated.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it means improved coordination in the fight against counterfeiting of the euro with the countries of the european union which do not use this currency. the pericles 2020 programme was established by a 2001 council decision to develop actions to combat counterfeiting of the new currency. this programme has maintained good results since the introduction of the euro but, due to the integration of more countries not using the same currency, it is necessary to develop it outside the euro area to avoid this type of illegal activities in all countries of the european union. it is to improve the fight against counterfeiting that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. the draft regulation aims to extend the application of regulation (eu) no …/2012, known as the ‘pericles 2020’ programme, to member states which have not adopted the euro as their single currency. ‘pericles 2020’ is the continuation of the programme established by council decision 2001/923/ec, as subsequently amended, with the aim of establishing measures designed to protect the euro against counterfeiting. the legal basis of the proposal is articles 133 and 139(2)(f) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which stipulate that the european parliament and the council are to lay down the measures necessary for the use of the euro as the single currency, including measures to protect the euro against counterfeiting. the extended pericles programme will be implemented through a proposal for a parallel regulation based on article 352 tfeu.
in writing. - in favour. the eu’s relations with the republic of azerbaijan began in 1996 with the signature of the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca). then, following the 2004 and 2007 enlargements, the eu launched the european neighbourhood policy (enp), in which the republic of azerbaijan has participated since 2004 and which aims to strengthen relations with neighbouring countries to the east and south in order to promote prosperity, stability and border security. in 2009 the eu launched a new initiative in this field with the aim of deepening relations with certain countries to the east: the eastern partnership. an association agreement was signed in prague on 7 may 2009, which also included the republic of azerbaijan. the partnership aims to create the necessary conditions to accelerate political association and economic integration between the eu and the participating countries. visa liberalisation and citizens’ mobility are an integral part of the partnership.
in writing. - children involved in conflicts are separated from their families, recruited as soldiers, forced to kill and subjected to sexual exploitation, among other things, which terribly and irreversibly affects their physical and psychological development. the estimated number of children currently involved in armed conflict ranges largely between 250,000 and 800,000. while the primary responsibility for protecting civilians lies with states, it is also important to underline the responsibility and obligation of armed non-state actors to protect people in accordance with international humanitarian law. the report aims to support the international campaign 'zero under 18' and to promote the signing of action plans aimed at protecting children in armed conflict.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it represents an improvement in the safety and information provided to consumers when buying food products produced in the european union. the report requires the different companies that use artificial nanomaterials in the manufacture of food products to clearly indicate this on the labelling so that consumers have the information necessary to decide on their consumption. again, efsa, in its traditional association with the lobbies of the big food companies, and in clear violation of the precautionary principle, tried to downplay the potential risk that this type of new material, of which there is not enough information to know its potential risks, may have on human health. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. meps have today voted to prevent a backdoor attempt by the commission to exempt additives in food products from eu labelling rules on nanomaterials. this rejection is a vote for consumer protection and will ensure that consumers are able to know about all nanomaterials contained in the food they consume, including food additives in nano-form. the rules proposed by the commission would have meant that nanomaterials used in food additives would no longer have to be labelled on food products. however, given that it is precisely as food additives that nanomaterials are mostly used in food products, if at all, this would have totally undermined the proposed labelling rules. consumers would essentially have remained in the dark about the presence of nanomaterials in food products despite the clear provisions in the existing law to have labelling of all engineered nanomaterials in food products. thankfully, the european parliament stopped the commission in its tracks and defended existing labelling provisions. consumers have a right to know what is in the food they are eating.
in writing. - in favour. the existing council framework decision 2008/977/jha of 27[nbsp ]november[nbsp ]2008 on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters does not provide a comprehensive framework of data protection by law enforcement and judicial authorities in criminal matters, as it addresses only cross-border situations and does not address the issue of parallel existing provisions on data protection in other eu instruments on law enforcement and criminal law.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the proposal for a single european sky provides a weak framework for the management of civil aviation in the european union. the report, despite its weakness, introduces measures aimed at liberalizing some of the services provided at european airports, transfers powers from the corresponding national authorities to their european counterparts, weakens the social dimension of the initial proposal, etc. but one of the central aspects of the single european sky is that it will undoubtedly have a negative impact on the working conditions of workers in the sector. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - the proposed regulation gives a considerably larger number of tasks to the european union aviation agency, so that it proposes some changes with regard to the national aviation authorities, as well as in the process of accreditation and certification of air navigation service providers. all this with a view to achieving a uniform procedure for the certification of air navigation service providers in the future and to offering them a single window for obtaining a union-wide permit to carry out their tasks, it should be possible for the european union aviation agency to issue such a certificate, which should be recognised in all member states.
in writing. - in favour. the regulation (amending regulation (ec) no 216/2008) concerning aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services is part of the single european sky package (ses) and addresses the issue of air safety and the powers of the european aviation safety agency (easa). it is a very important regulation for two reasons: firstly, because it adapts to the new single european sky rules, and secondly, because of its governance reform, the aim of which is to implement the interinstitutional agreement on the european agencies signed in july[nbsp ]2012. under this agreement, the commission, the european parliament and the council reached an agreement on a common approach to the eu agencies. it is an agreement which, though not legally binding, is based on a case-by-case approach and makes progress on numerous issues: establishment of the agencies, choice of headquarters, governance, operation, use of resources and control mechanisms.
in writing. - air traffic management needs to be modernised, as it is essential to boost the competitiveness of european airlines, while also improving the use of airspace and even reducing pollution. it was necessary to unify the rules that currently exist on the so-called 'single european sky', while maintaining the original objectives and principles at all times, of course. in this way we will not only modernize but also improve the services provided in areas such as safety and pollution reduction. it is essential to establish a framework for cooperation between national authorities, air navigation service providers and airlines, thereby reducing the fragmentation in air traffic management. we hope that this will allow the 'single european sky' initiative to make good progress - as it has not done so far - and that this will ultimately have a positive impact on the customer, the citizen, both in terms of safety and in terms of prices and travel times within this common space.
in writing. - the european tourism industry is directly affected by the package travel directive; the package travel sector is a key pillar of the tourism industry, providing 10.2 million jobs to the european economy. the provisions of this directive are addressed to both online and offline travel companies and review the insolvency protection mechanism, establishing sanctions and clarifying the scope of protection for travellers in relation to the purchase of package travel services. i would like to express my rejection of amendments nos 134, 135 and 136 by the s&d group, as they would jeopardise the possibility of offering some packages and create a legal conflict with the consumer rights directive. the s&d group's amendment no 135 would jeopardise the possibility of offering/carrying out many packages and create a distortion with individual tourist services covered by the consumer rights directive. amendments nos 134 and 136 would create a legal conflict with the consumer rights directive, which already explicitly protects most independent tourist services, even when they have been sold through an intermediary.
in writing. - my vote in favour of this report reflects the importance of this proposal for a directive for european citizens. in the face of helplessness in cases such as the bankruptcy of companies in the holiday sector, the aim is to provide consumers with greater rights and guarantees. the socialists believe it is essential to provide european citizens with cover against abuse during the process of buying and enjoying a package holiday. i hope that after negotiation with the council we will get a directive to protect consumers against any abuse that may occur.
in writing. - in favour. steps must also be taken to ensure that the new directive does not overlap with the existing regulations on passenger rights. the key point is that the accumulation of rights should only be possible if more than one claim is being asserted. the undertakings involved must be able to seek redress from one another. national law would then determine the internal travel-industry arrangements for dealing with claims. for the passenger, however, the party to contact should always be the organiser, as the internal legal position is irrelevant to him.
in writing. - by adopting this report we have committed ourselves to updating and adapting travellers' rights to the developments in the tourism sector in recent years, mainly due to the emergence of low-cost airlines and the increasing use of the internet for booking. this is a much-needed revision, since the last european regulation on this subject was adopted in 1990. i have on several occasions expressed my concern about the behaviour of certain low-cost carriers and their mistreatment of the user. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. - fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases) are industrial gases whose warming potential can be up to 23[nbsp ]000 times more potent than carbon dioxide (co2). hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs) are the most relevant group of gases, mainly introduced to replace hydrofluorochlorocarbons (hcfcs) in ozone depleting substances. the report includes some major improvements, inter alia the following: bans on using hfcs in products and equipment, in particular stationary refrigeration with hfcs with gwp of 2[nbsp ]500 or more from 2020, commercial refrigeration of more than 40[nbsp ]kw by 2022 (with the exception of cascade systems), small air-conditioning systems over gwp[nbsp ]750 by 2025, foams 2020/2023 and technical aerosols 2018; by-product emissions of fluorinated compounds from hfc imports must also be destroyed or recycled; allocation fee under review in 2017; explicit review of sf6 (an extremely potent f-gas which is not under phase-down) to include its use in medium voltage switchgear under bans by 2020. the legislation represents the single biggest contribution to climate protection achieved during this legislature and is a significant step forward in that regard.
in writing. - in favour. the montreal protocol, considered the most successful international environmental agreement, has achieved global phase-outs and phase-downs of most ozone-depleting substances, including chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs) and hydrochlorofluorocarbons (hcfcs). hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs) have recently begun to act as substitutes for cfcs and hcfcs, but they are climatically very active. in addition, other fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases), including perfluorocarbons (pfcs) and sulphur hexafluoride (sf6), have global warming potentials (gwps) up to 23[nbsp ]000 times more potent than carbon dioxide and can remain in the atmosphere for thousands of years. action is needed. the european union (eu) has called for an 80-95% reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 2050 compared to levels in 1990. according to the european commission’s low carbon economy roadmap, in order to reach this target, 72-73% reductions in non-co2 emissions (this includes fluorinated greenhouse gases) are needed by 2030. but while all other greenhouse gases have been reduced, f-gas emissions in the eu have risen by 60% since 1990. hfc-based products and equipment can have long lifetimes of up to 50 years. additional legislation is therefore needed now to prevent emissions from increasing for several decades to come.
in writing. - article 45 tfeu enshrines the right of eu citizens to move freely within the union for work purposes. this includes in particular the right not to be discriminated against on grounds of nationality in access to employment, remuneration and other conditions of work. the directive aims to enforce regulation (eu) no[nbsp ]492/2011, which details the rights deriving from the freedom of movement of workers and defines the specific areas in which discrimination on grounds of nationality is prohibited.
in writing. - in favour. the free movement of workers is a fundamental freedom of eu citizens and one of the pillars of the internal market in the union enshrined in article 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. its implementation is further developed by union law aimed at guaranteeing the full exercise of rights conferred on union citizens and the members of their families, as defined in article 2(2) of directive 2004/38/ec of the european parliament and of the council. it is essential to ensure that this fundamental freedom always takes into consideration the principle of equality between women and men and the promotion of equal opportunities across the union.
in writing. - the overall assessment of the first reading agreement is that it constitutes an improvement to the existing directive, although the commission proposal ambition regarding the quality of eias was weakened. as regards the issue of shale gas and fracking, there is no direct change in comparison to the current regime. deep drilling remains in annex ii, i.e. activities which require member states to determine whether a project needs to undergo full environmental impact assessment, however member states may also establish thresholds or criteria determining when projects need not under go either "determination" nor eia. if a project is subject to the "determination" and the information obligations under annex iia, the project does not need to assess the baseline or alternatives. where a project is subject to full eia, the report must include description of the current state of environment (baseline), reasonable alternative and assess hydromorphological changes, among other things. greens/efa members voted against the agreement envi, after envi coordinators rejected our proposals to put the shale gas amendments to the committee vote in addition to the text of the agreement, as it was not considered acceptable to close the file in first reading without covering shale gas exploration and extraction under mandatory eia. so we keep on with our position in plenary.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the environmental aspects of the transport of dangerous goods. the european union should not undertake any project which does not guarantee that there is no danger to the environment or to human health. this directive is the main instrument to respond to this citizen's wish. under the alleged threat of a blocking minority in the council, the resulting text does not address the necessary revision of the annexes which determine when a project must be assessed on a mandatory basis or not. we have missed the opportunity to respond to uncertainties about techniques like fracking and other human actions that are likely to cause serious damage to our already stressed ecosystems. the spanish socialists will continue to work so that a future revision of the directive will fearlessly face the inclusion of mandatory assessments when they prove necessary. we must respond to the concerns of so many citizens who call us to their attention every day with their complaints and requests and whom we may be disappointing today.
in writing. - against. the failure to ensure that shale gas extraction projects and shale gas exploration involving the environmentally destructive fracking process are subject to compulsory environmental impact assessments is a major setback. the lack of an obligation for a basic standard of assessment and public participation, as provided for by eias, could lead to risky shale gas projects being bulldozed through in spite of environmental concerns and public will. with the eu commission having decided not to propose any eu-level regulation of shale gas, this legislation compounds the blow to eu citizens and the environment. the growing body of evidence about the environmental and health risks associated with shale gas extraction, notably through fracking, cannot be ignored. this is not to mention the negative climate impact resulting from the intensive extraction process entailing significant fugitive emissions of methane and subsequent combustion of this fossil fuel. the greens believe there is already sufficient evidence to ban fracking but ensuring informed permit decisions through the environmental impact assessment procedure must be the absolute minimum. despite some improvements over current rules, the failure of this revised legislation to make eias mandatory for shale gas projects leaves the greens with no choice but to vote against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it improves democratic control of the various powers conferred on the european commission, in this case those relating to the compilation of statistics on the external trade of the european union. this report proposes the transition from implementing acts to delegated acts, which should be evaluated and monitored by the european parliament after a period of five years from their initiation by the commission. it is because it represents an improvement in the democratic control of the institutions that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. the commission proposal under consideration aims at aligning the regulation of the european parliament and of the council (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries to the post-lisbon regime of implementing acts and delegated acts (articles 290 and 291 tfeu). to this date, most of the legislation in the field of the common commercial policy has been aligned to the new constitutional regime by means of the trade omnibus i and ii and several subsequent individual alignments. the commission committed itself to come up with the second wave of comitology alignments – concerning legislative acts containing the regulatory procedure with scrutiny – by the end of the 7th legislature. in this context, the commission proposes the amendment to regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it supports the european union budget funding space research programmes with applications relating to military technology. the copernicus programme, while introducing the development of numerous civilian applications of space technology, introduces many actions that can be applied in border control, espionage and different military uses. the use of 3[nbsp ]786[nbsp ]million euros for these purposes reaffirms the intention to increase military development and no longer meet the real needs of the european people. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the copernicus programme because it will allow regular observation of the earth and in particular of the atmosphere, oceans and continental surfaces, and will provide valuable information for environmental applications and decisive for decision-making. in particular, copernicus will be structured around six areas: land management, marine environment, atmosphere, security linkage, climate change and contributing to disaster response. its multiple applications therefore have enormous potential for benefit to state, regional and local governments. in addition, it is expected to generate eur 30 billion and create 50 000 new jobs between 2015 and 2030. copernicus also obliges the eu to continue to invest in and support innovation, which is essential to sustain a programme of this nature.
in writing. - in favour. at a time when the command and appropriate use of information has important geostrategic implications, europe needs to have the capacity to independently evaluate its policy responses in a reliable and timely manner. the copernicus programme (the new name of the gmes) is that infrastructure: the european comprehensive earth observation system. the commission’s proposal signals the arrival of the satellite array’s operational phase. the primary objective is to benefit european citizens in a variety of fields, specifically for environment and climate change purposes, while keeping its scope in the civil dimension, yet some of the more controversial elements, like governance and data policy, will need refinement to ensure a smooth evolution. in fact, if copernicus is considered a priority for both industrial and environmental policy – a flagship programme, as claimed by the commission – one might wonder why the initial budget proposal has been reduced by almost 35[nbsp ]%. after all, the space sector involves a significant number of jobs and a relevant research activity, and copernicus alone promises a return of 3.2 euros for each one spent. is now not the time to aim at an expansion of european economy?
in writing. - in favour. regulation (eu) no xxx/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation and exploitation of european satellite navigation systems, replacing regulation (ec) no 683/2008, due to enter into force on 1[nbsp ]january 2014, defines the public governance arrangements for the programmes during 2014-2020. it confers overall responsibility for the programmes on the commission and makes the commission responsible for ensuring the security of the programmes, including the security of the systems and their operation. in addition, it extends the tasks entrusted to the agency and provides, in particular, for the agency to play a major role in the exploitation of the systems and in maximising their socio-economic benefits.
in writing. - these amendments will help to extend and support the mission of the gnns agency so that companies and entrepreneurs in the field of high technology, especially smes in the sector, can carry out their mission with a greater capacity, as the amendments will affect both the budgetary part and the aspect of the staff involved, including also the aspect of the gender perspective within the agency, among some of the novelties proposed as improvements by the rapporteur.
in writing. - in favour. the document containing proposals for the future comes at a particular moment: during the economic crisis in europe, after the eastern partnership summit in vilnius and at the end of the 2009-2014 term of the eu, when its significance increases. therefore, the ep should present an ambitious proposal that shows our openness and commitment to the development of the european project. in this sense, the crisis should not limit us and should rather be an incentive to look further than just political commitment and focus on the citizens of eastern partnership countries, focusing on policies that will have tangible results, such as the visa-free regime. the eu should also focus on young people and young leaders, ensuring their future is anchored in the eu. furthermore, the eu should also focus on energy security and cooperate with the eastern partners on this issue. this document should provide an incentive for a brave political approach to the development of the eastern partnership, as well as paving the way for our ideas.
in writing. - i think that the report is a step ahead in the protection of eu citizen' fundamental rights. i will remark some very positive aspects of it. the report calls on the us authorities and the eu member states to, where this is not yet the case, prohibit blanket mass surveillance. it also calls on the us to revise without delay its legislation to bring it in line with international law, to recognise the privacy and other rights of eu citizens, to provide for judicial redress for eu citizens and to sign the additional protocol allowing for complaints by individuals under the iccpr. it insists that necessary reforms be undertaken and effective guarantees given to europeans ensuring that the use of surveillance and data processing for foreign intelligence purposes is limited by clearly specified conditions, related to reasonable suspicion or probable cause of terrorist or criminal activity; underlines that this purpose has to be subject to transparent judicial oversight. the report draws attention to the plight of whistleblowers and their supporters, including journalists following their revelations; calls on the commission to conduct an examination as to whether a future legislative proposal establishing an effective and comprehensive european whistleblower protection programme.
in writing. in this report, the european parliament stresses that the fight against terrorism must not be carried out at the expense of fundamental rights. two weeks before obama's visit to europe, he made a series of recommendations to restore trust with the united states, a trust already well-cored by the secret cia programs conducted in europe after september 11, 2001. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. parliament called for the suspension of the swift and the security area agreements: how can they continue to be applied when they are being misused for espionage purposes? finally, the council and parliament will have to agree on the european legislative framework for data protection by the end of the year. i regret, however, that a majority of them have abandoned edward snowden by refusing to call on the member states to grant him asylum: without his revelations, these freedom-threatening spy programmes would have been allowed to run wild! whistleblowers put their freedoms at risk to protect ours and as such deserve protection.
in writing. - the presumption of innocence and individual liberty of european citizens are rights which, under no justification whatsoever, such as that of an alleged terrorist threat - a threat which, by the way, was already a fact in the sad and regrettable attacks in madrid and london, but which nevertheless did not constitute a reason for taking actions which undermined those rights - can be called into question again as a result of the deliberate action by the usa to carry out a series of eavesdropping and mass surveillance of citizens, intercepting communications even in the european institutions. the consequences of continuing this clear spying will be severe and could affect the trade agreement between the european union and the usa, and an appropriate solution must be found so that the right to privacy of european citizens is not only restored but guaranteed in the future.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is aimed at introducing the logic of economic efficiency into the evaluation of the judicial systems of the member states of the european union. this report sets out a system of indicators for the evaluation of judicial systems which we cannot share. the law is an absolute and universal value which must be respected in its essence and specificity for each case that is dealt with. the development of european-level quantification systems provides a platform for raising quantitative policy limits in relation to the enforcement and evaluation of judicial decisions. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - in favour. the establishment of a justice scoreboard in criminal matters will make a fundamental contribution to creating a common understanding of eu legislation in the field of criminal law among judges and prosecutors, thus strengthening mutual trust.
in writing. - in favour. on 24 april 2013, the commission presented a consultation paper which aimed at triggering broad public debate on the impact of the current transformation of the audiovisual media landscape. the green paper on ‘preparing for a fully converged audiovisual world: growth, creation and value’ focused on how future-proof the audiovisual media services directive (avmsd) was, but also contained considerations regarding infrastructure, frequencies and funding models of audiovisual content as well as market considerations on the vertical and horizontal integration of the media and ict industry. at the moment, media policy in europe is largely a matter for member states. however, not all areas of media policy can be dealt with at national or federal level. aspects related to the ongoing merging of conventional broadcasting services with the internet, in particular, need to be dealt with more than hitherto at european level as a result of changing market structures.
in writing. - in 2010, the european commission presented its first eu citizenship report and announced 25 measures to ensure that eu citizens could enjoy their rights in their daily lives. however, today the obstacles remain. in the 2013 eu citizenship report, the commission proposes 12 new actions in six key areas to improve the implementation of eu citizens' rights in practice. the report calls for the creation of a single window in each member state as soon as possible to coordinate projects with a cross-border impact, such as those with a social impact, such as emergency services.
in writing. - in favour. citizens need to be able to make informed decisions about exercising their treaty rights and should therefore have access to all the necessary information, focusing not only on abstract rights but also on practical, readily accessible information about economic, social, administrative, legal and cultural issues.
in writing. - in favour. the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) is a step forward in the process of judicial cooperation between member states in criminal matters. the european parliament is required to express its views on a legislative proposal which, at a time of fiscal consolidation, interprets the tangible need of citizens to see that the financial interests of the european union are being protected. moreover, the fact that eur[nbsp ]500 million are being taken away from welfare systems and public services each year merits a response from the eu. the aim of this text – in line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty – is to draw up a number of suggestions and provide specific details of a political nature relating to the text proposed by the commission, which may be carefully considered by the council.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because turkey continues to be an occupying force in part of the territory of one of the member states of the european union: cyprus. turkey cannot move forward in its eu integration process as it continues to violate international law, continues to occupy the northern part of cyprus and continues not to recognise the republic of cyprus. because of these positions, which place turkey outside international law, the eu should not negotiate or advance cooperation with turkey until it has made a firm commitment to recognise the said member state and its sovereignty. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - in favour, despite the fact that we had presented an alternative text, which had been defeated previously, to the common resolution, where we made the following statements that we wished to reflect the position of parliament. the eu and the arctic should recall the adoption of its resolution of 20 january 2011 on a sustainable eu policy for the high north, and welcomes the joint communication of the commission and of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy of 26 june 2012. they both should reaffirm its position that, with three eu member states – denmark, finland and sweden – being arctic states and norway and iceland being part of the eea and the schengen area, the eu has a legitimate interest by virtue of its rights and obligations under international law, its commitment to environmental, climate and other policies and its funding, research activities and economic interests, including in the areas of shipping and the development of natural resources. and should recall, moreover, that the eu has large arctic land areas in finland and sweden, inhabited by the only indigenous population group in the eu, the sami.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i shall try, in this short space of time, to tell you why we have made this report, how the report has been made and why we want this report. why have we made this report? firstly, because we think it would be absurd and scandalous if, in the balance sheet of these programmes, weighed only the consequences of the programmes on the markets, on macroeconomic imbalances or on public debt and forgotten the citizens who have lost their jobs, the young people who are struggling to find their first job, the hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs who have closed their businesses, those who have fallen into poverty or those who have had difficulty in accessing their health care or pharmaceutical care, for example. we have built this solid majority so that it will be understood that this parliament cares about the people and that this parliament believes that the economy is an instrument in the service of the people and not the other way around. and that economic policies, even well-intentioned ones, if they do not work, must be changed without any dogmatism and without any closing ranks. we have also done so because we are concerned about europe. because we see public opinion moving further and further away from a europe which it sees as an instrument of the big financial industry, of business, of money and of markets. especially because this feeling has grown in these countries - particularly among the young population, who have lost the post-war references and who see how their agenda is far from the agenda of the european union. to remember our treaties and our commitments. to remind us that europe is a social market economy and not just a market economy. how did we make this report? i have been subjected to a double discipline: first, i have relied on indisputable data, beyond all discussion and suspicion, and secondly, i have made a report with a european perspective. to do this rigorously we have commissioned studies from the library of this parliament, from universities in those four countries and from research centres which have helped us. we have listened to the ilo, the council of europe, trade unions, employers and we have opened a discussion forum on social networks to listen to citizens. and what does this report say? well, what we've heard from citizens in university studies. that this austerity - in the form and at the pace it has been imposed - and the structural reforms - in the way they have also been imposed on these states - have produced, mr vice-president, mr commissioner, a real social catastrophe. there has been massive job destruction, to the point that unemployment has tripled and reaches, in young populations and in sectors at risk, incredible rates of over 50% of the working population. that the increase in poverty has been general and that there are now new forms of poverty reaching the middle class, the working class: new forms of poverty. people are going through hardships, they're going through cold this winter, because they can't afford their heating in these countries. lots of people. tens of thousands of families. that the basic public services have deteriorated and, very specifically, health and pharmaceutical services for patients at risk of life who today cannot access these medicines and these hospitals. that social dialogue and collective agreements have been destroyed. that a break with a decade of experience and union practice has been imposed. that they have forgotten the european social charter. that the ilo conventions have been forgotten. in short, there has been a total disregard for legality and the law. what did we do the report for? to learn from mistakes, to demonstrate injustice, to repair what has been destroyed, to put an end to the troika, to create genuinely european mechanisms, to recover what has been lost and to have a plan for the recovery of jobs from now on. because without jobs, without activity, there will be no social justice and there will be no economy. mr rehn, you will hear what adam smith said: 'no society can prosper and be happy if the majority of its members are poor and unhappy', as is happening in countries subject to a troika programme. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, dear vice-president, dear commissioner, first of all i would like to thank vice-president rehn for the positive words he has had towards my country, towards spain, but i would also like to remind him that spain is outside the scope of this report. as we approach the end of the legislature it seems we want to take stock of the situation. that is what we are doing with this troika report, but we must also be aware that there is not enough perspective to analyse in detail and in a complete way the work of the troika. it is true that in the short term some of the measures have had a negative impact on citizens, but it is also true that in the medium and long term most of the measures will have positive effects on growth and job creation. we should also ask ourselves what europe would be today - not just the countries that have been bailed out, but europe itself - without the troika's action. i would like to highlight the work of the rapporteurs and congratulate both mr karas and mr hoang ngoc, because they have certainly produced a balanced report. but let us not be deceived, the troika was inevitable. the european union did not have the instruments to deal with a crisis of the magnitude that we are facing. it has made mistakes, it is true, most of them are probably due to a lack of transparency and a lack of democratic legitimacy, but we must learn from the mistakes and this work must serve precisely that purpose: to learn from the mistakes and that this should be an incentive to continue moving forward in the much-needed and much-desired economic union and, in short, political union, because then, when we have achieved this result, there will certainly not be a crisis like the one we have suffered. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. mr zalba, you speak of the possibility of positive measures in the medium and long term. could you tell me what positive expectations can be given to the 60% of the youth population who are currently unemployed in spain and other countries, largely because of these kinds of measures which you have considered to be positive?
the answer is 'blue card'. mr romeva, as i said, spain is outside the scope of this report. i will, however, answer. spain has positive data. and positive data that, without a doubt, shows that we are beginning to see the light at the end of the tunnel. last december, for example, was the month with the largest job creation in our country's history. so there are positive signs that will undoubtedly bear fruit. and the fruits we all hope for are that this scourge of unemployment is not the main problem of the spanish. but there is no doubt that we are on the way to achieving that goal.
madam president, european integration has for decades been an attractive project and the hope of a globalisation with a human face. the crisis and its mismanagement have undermined this image: europe has gone from being the inspiration for the solution to representing the problem. the troika is an improvised anomaly, the result of the absence of eu instruments. the richest region in the world cannot avail itself of the financial assistance of the international monetary fund because it is unable to organise internal solidarity. common problems require common reforms, solutions and resources. european economic policy cannot be the aggregate of national economic policies. avoiding catastrophe is not achieving success. the simultaneous, rapid and indiscriminate adjustment has induced a recession in europe with devastating effects on the countries subject to a programme and depressing effects on the world economy. inequality has increased and burdens have been unfairly shared. the responsible creditors who inflated the bubbles have escaped unscathed and the external debt has been passed on to domestic taxpayers. in addition, europe has not yet taken on the direct recapitalisation of financial institutions, nor has it created mechanisms to alleviate public debt or promote investment, nor has it introduced a tax on financial transactions. business as usual is unsustainable. we cannot put off the banking union until 2026 or leave a lost generation without prospects for growth, employment and a genuine european democracy. this report and the forthcoming elections must be a turning point for europe to find its way again.
madam president, in two words: out with the troika! the troika is out of the european landscape! it is a new curse, a new plague that devastates jobs, wages, pensions, leaves young people without a future, punishes public services, education, health, enriches a minority and protects financial swindlers. this is the picture we have. out with troika! and to mr cercas, after listening to him: look, i am surprised. it seems that your group and the social democrats in this house, in the commission, in the council and in spain were confronted with the policies of austerity and stability which have enabled the troika to act. on the contrary, in my country the socialist party, together with the people's party, reformed our constitution - article 135 - in an express manner, without popular consultation, to impose the spirit of the troika.
mr president, the politics imposed by the troika caused a social disaster. the consequences have been catastrophic: unemployment, precarious employment and a decrease in wages, cuts in social services, health systems and public education, misery and poverty, and no future for young people. both reports make a good diagnosis, but they fail in some of the proposals. some of them are positive. i will name two of these: the request for a new restructuring of the greek debt and the call to carry out social impact assessments before imposing major reforms. but there are black holes as well. a stronger emphasis on the need to ensure consistency with fundamental rights, like access to essential health services, is not included. an immediate end to the austerity programmes is not requested; the request is limited to a willing ‘as soon as possible’. the recommendation to include flexicurity in future labour reforms without evaluating the impact it can produce in states with a high unemployment rate is, to say the least, dangerous. furthermore, the reports would have been more positive if some proposals demanding that public expenses should not be taken into account in calculating the deficit had been included. let us put an end to the troika.
member of the commission. - mr president, i believe what is most important is to ensure that europe does not need to go through this experience again. i thank you very much for the substantive debate we have had here about the experience of the programme countries and especially the social consequences of the crisis. as emphasised by many of you, when discussing the debt crisis in the european union as a whole, we need to recall that the roots of the crisis lie in serious macro-economic imbalances which built up over the previous decade and in the imperfect architecture of the economic and monetary union. what specific combinations of internal and external factors resulted in the debt crisis in various member states of course requires a country-by-country analysis. i believe that the blame game – which we have also witnessed in this house – is not really productive in that context. but what is obvious in my view is that behind any debt crisis, alongside irresponsible borrowing, there is always irresponsible lending. for a fair resolution, both sides have to absorb a part of the costs in order to find the fastest way back to economic growth. that requires a combination of national efforts with solidarity. the social consequences of the crisis have indeed been very serious, but again you should remember that the macro-economic adjustment programmes did not mark the beginning of the crisis but the start of its resolution. the programmes actually prevented disorderly defaults, with all the devastating economic and social consequences that this would have entailed. if you want to see in detail how social developments have unfolded in recent years, the best source is obviously the employment and social developments in europe report by the commission. that provides very reliable analysis and also policy ideas in this context. we are also aware of the significant delay which all this has caused in terms of reaching the europe 2020 targets, but i believe that it is important to ensure that we do not abandon the ambition of increasing employment and reducing poverty in the eu because of the long recession. as has also been explored by the scoreboard of employment and social indicators in the commission’s social dimension communication, we are also aware that europe – and especially the eurozone – has become more asymmetrical and, in a way, more divided, from the point of view of the social and employment situation. we have to find the right responses and solutions to that together. when the eu was facing the crisis in 2010 – and i say the eu, including the commission as well as parliament – neither of us had the benefit of hindsight. we all knew that we had a limited toolkit, and we were acting under extreme time pressure. we also remember that not everybody was feeling this time pressure. you may recall that the first greek programme was held back because of a regional election in one specific eu member state. this delay only served to increase the costs of the crisis response and resulted in much greater sums being necessary to provide support to greece. you will remember – and this has been recalled by several speakers in this discussion – that the troika was created out of necessity in order to handle a crisis which was not envisaged when monetary union was designed at maastricht. the commission clearly favours the community method in this context. however, the deepening of emu is most likely to be a gradual process. for the commission the guiding principle is that stronger solidarity has to go hand in hand with stronger responsibility. parliament guarantees that this principle will be anchored in a profoundly democratic process. i believe you all agree that the democratic accountability of our crisis resolution strategy is crucial for the wide acceptance of reforms in the beneficiary member states. in fact all memorandums of understanding (mous) have been adopted by democratically-elected national governments and parliaments, while the so-called two-pack now lays down the rules on the transparency and accountability of the commission as a member of the troika. i cannot speak on behalf of the imf or the european central bank, but as far as the commission is concerned, i can say – contrary to what some critics said here – that we have been engaging constantly with the social partners. we have sustained and tried to strengthen social dialogue in programme countries too. social dialogue in programme countries is important in order to broaden the ownership and adjustment reform strategy. major reforms, with a view to improving the functioning of labour markets and promoting job creation, can only be successful and sustainable if broadly supported. in this regard, the mous clearly state that reforms to labour and social security legislation should be implemented after consultation with social partners, taking into account possible constitutional implications and non-compliance with eu laws and ilo core labour standards. a number of speakers explained – and i agree with this point – that the current recovery is very modest and uneven at this stage, but that this is a product of the very constructive evolution of policies in the area of fiscal and monetary policies, stronger coordination and, on the other hand, more eu solidarity. this already resulted in 2012 in the stabilisation of the financial markets, in the first half of 2013 in the stabilisation of the real economy and, in the second half of last year, in the stabilisation of the labour markets. unemployment stopped increasing and is now in decline in a large number of countries. finally, what we will also see, according to the hard data from eurostat, is that the debt-to-gdp ratio will also stop increasing. several members of the house rightly emphasised the importance of this indicator, but at the end of the day, we believe this is also turning in the right direction. what needs to be done? i believe that there will be many opportunities again to reflect on history, on why this crisis emerged, and on why europe was not better protected against such a deep and severe financial crisis. we now have to focus on the important tasks that will make our economic and social models more resilient. the reconstruction of the european economic and monetary union must be a priority. the implementation of the banking union is indeed a matter of urgency, but surely the banking union will not be the last building block of this new architecture. we have to continue analysing the situation and develop further policy options. we have to continue mobilising the european structural and investment funds, because these are the most important expressions of concrete eu solidarity to help those who fell victim to the crisis and need support for job creation, investment in skills, deepening social cohesion and boosting enterprise. just to mention one example – and also because the presidency has just arrived – one week ago i was in thessaloniki, greece, visiting a new solidarity centre and ensuring that they have support from the regional leadership and access to eu funding. indeed, these are very timely activities on the commission’s agenda. finally, we have to ensure that more will be done to rebuild the social dialogue at all levels in the eu – at eu level, where we are reinforcing the tripartite social summit, but also at national, sectoral and company levels too. i think that all these efforts will point to the way out of the crisis and also to the way out of the social crisis. without that we cannot say whether we have brought back the growth that european citizens need. this is indeed the most important task for us on the agenda, and it will ensure that the european economy performs better and that the european social model becomes more resilient in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i think that there is a fairly general consensus on the report by the committee on employment and social affairs on the disastrous social consequences of the programmes. that was no small detail. there was no minor collateral damage. it is certainly not nonsense or demagogic publicity. the report is based on data and studies outside the political establishment. that is what the reality of these countries is telling us. it is only necessary to bear in mind, as the commissioner said, that the question of employment is fundamental to tackling these problems. when the question of employment is forgotten, macroeconomic problems cannot be solved. i am very sorry that mr rehn, who is not here at the moment, has not devoted a single second to the question of employment and social issues. that's a very bad example. and i would like to say, in this connection, to conclude that - as the commissioner has said - europe must never again go through this experience, but if we continue with the same policies, we will have the same results. therefore, we must learn from the mistakes that have been made so that we never make them again. and to know, contrary to what some members have said, that the problem is not aid. the problem is not the programs. these are the conditions to which these aids and programmes have been subjected. it is the rhythms that have been imposed on the member states. it is the loss of the sovereignty of the member states to choose the measures least harmful to their citizens. it is the lack of attention to respect for fundamental rights and treaties. it is not having saved the most vulnerable groups and, above all, not having accompanied austerity policies with economic recovery and job creation policies. europe needs to change and pay attention - the same attention it has paid to macroeconomic imbalances - to social imbalances. mr karas said, and i will end here, that there were sacrifices and they will not be forgotten; i hope his words are true. i hope our reports will be studied by the future commission. and i hope that there is a plan to repair all the damage that has been done and, above all, to launch an economy so that those who have no hope today will have hope in the future.
mr president, the protection of human rights is one of the hallmarks of the european union, a community of values in which the human person and the defence of the universality of his rights occupy a central place. the treaty on european union highlights among the objectives of our external action the support for democracy and human rights. this is not an exclusive objective, of course, there are others too, as the treaty itself says: the interests of the european union, our security or our independence. we therefore need an intelligent and effective foreign policy which is able to integrate these different objectives and which naturally takes account of the central role, the important role, which the defence of human rights plays. for years we have been experiencing major changes, ladies and gentlemen, in our eastern and southern neighbourhoods. the so-called arab spring began in tunisia with a desperate cry precisely in favour of human dignity, of human rights. today, the trampling on human rights and humanitarian law is particularly cruel in one country in that region, syria. we are all aware of the problems of the many syrians who have been displaced by the long conflict in their country. in the eastern neighbourhood, i am thinking of the cases of belarus - as does the resolution we are voting on tomorrow - or, of course, of what has happened in ukraine. in the same way, africa is once again the scene of dramatic ethno-religious conflicts. i welcome the rapid intervention of french troops to prevent a massive violation of human rights in the central african republic today, as happened earlier in mali. i shall also dwell on the right to freedom of religion and thought. the important contribution of the christian heritage to the construction of today's europe is undeniable. we must therefore not hesitate to defend christians who, in many parts of the middle east, africa and asia, face an intolerable lack of security and are victims of violence. finally, mr president, i would like to refer to the united nations assembly next year, which will be meeting to renew the millennium development goals. the fight against poverty must remain a central objective, but we must also remember the right to safe drinking water and sanitation, as demanded recently by the united nations general assembly in its resolution of 18 december.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, i think that throughout this debate what has been clear is the unwavering and steadfast commitment to human rights that the european union and all its institutions have. let me come now to some specific points. first of all, the visit of lady ashton to tehran. i just want to remind this house that the european parliament has repeatedly urged lady ashton to engage with iran. let me also assure the honourable members of lady ashton’s great sensitivity on human rights. she never fails to raise this issue when she meets with leaders of countries where violations occur. there is also the point about discrimination in nigeria and uganda. the european union has expressed, through statements, its serious concern regarding the recent legislation discriminating against homosexuals in nigeria and uganda. in opposing this legislation the european union is promoting the same human rights for all individuals and in particular the right not to suffer discrimination, which is enshrined in key international instruments. i would also like to mention our continued commitment to freedom of religion or belief as a fundamental human right and call for the implementation of the respective resolutions by all member states of the united nations. i have limited time, and i am not permitted, in my first speech, to elaborate on all country and thematic priorities. but, as you know, the european union is active on many important issues you have raised – torture is one of them. the european union will continue to express its strong and principled opposition to torture, which remains a serious global problem. the eu presses for the full and effective implementation of the convention and calls for a concrete and concentrated effort to eradicate torture worldwide. the european union also maintains its support for the un special rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the european union is also giving political and practical support to the un human rights bodies and will continue to defend its independence. i would also like to join our voice to the tribute paid to the un high commissioner for human rights, navi pillay, and i would like to mention that the european union has arranged yearly comprehensive resolutions on the rights of children. so with these specific remarks, allow me once again to thank this house for its support in our common effort to promote and defend human rights globally.
the next item is the joint debate on:- the report by lorenzo fontana, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down general provisions on the asylum and migration fund and on the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, preventing and combating crime, and crisis management (com (2011) 0752 - c7-0444/2011 - 2011/0367 (cod)) (a7-0021/2014),- the report by sylvie guillaume, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the asylum and migration fund (com (2011) 0751 - c7-0443/2011 - 2011/0367 (cod)) (com (2011) 0752 - c7-0444/2014), on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the asylum and migration fund and on the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, preventing and combating crime, preventing crime, and crisis management (com (2011-0452 - c7-0452 - c7-0451/2011)), on the report by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and home affairs council establishing the asylum and home affairs fund, as part of the financial support instrument for the european union, civil liberties, civil liberties, internal fund, civil liberties, internal aid, civil liberties and internal affairs, civil liberties, internal affairs, and internal affairs, civil liberties, and security (com (2011-07-07-045/2011) (com (2011-0457-07-0451 - c7
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for the intriguing presentation of his report. i very much welcome this debate tonight on our proposal concerning network and information security. the opportunities – as rightly mentioned by the rapporteur – offered by new digital tools are increasing all the time. however, so are cyber-attacks, and citizens are becoming ever more aware of online risks and ever more reluctant to trust online tools. snowden gave us a wake-up call. he focused our attention. there is no privacy without security, and many people are asking: why are people spying on us online? really they should ask another equally valid question: why are we so unprepared and uncoordinated that they manage to succeed? today, parliament can give us that answer. i would like to thank the rapporteur, andreas schwab, for his hard and efficient work, and i would also like to thank the shadows and the many other committees involved. as you know, our proposal is founded on three main pillars. number one: the member states need to be ready, both technically and organisationally. today there are gaps in some countries. we need to fill them. we are only as strong as the weakest link. your amendments would offer the member states more flexibility to ensure national readiness. i take note, of course, of the fact that the member states must still carry out the specific functions and tasks set out in the directive. the second pillar would ensure more cooperation among the member states. today, if one country is hit by a major cyber-attack or has evidence of a major attack being prepared, they would not have to share that information – even if the attack could have repercussions in other eu countries. that is not right. we are a union; we have agreed to cooperate and to share. we need to alert each other and, if necessary, to support each other. we should share information about such cyber incidents, just as we would for bio-terrorism or even flu outbreaks. this directive would make this happen, and i thank parliament for supporting better cooperation, which will raise capabilities in all member states – including the less advanced ones. let us not wait for a digital 9/11. let us prepare ourselves. thirdly, our proposal would mean better preparedness and better transparency in important sectors, both public and private. tomorrow you will vote to extend the scope to cover water, food and internet exchange points as well. i very much welcome that. yet you also propose to exclude public administrations and internet enablers. please remember that many public functions are also essential services, like land registries and public tenders. if those services fail, they let down citizens and other parts of the network, and maybe the whole economy. therefore, they too should be required to minimise cyber risks. the public sector should be setting the example. we often do that in other cases. likewise, key internet companies are also becoming essential these days to interactions and transactions. meanwhile, online services and data from political infrastructure are now shifting to the cloud. let us deal with the scope and get the scope right. i have two more points, if you will allow me. in a fast-moving world we need the right balance of precision and flexibility. that is why we need proper delegation powers. in addition, the obligation to report suspected serious criminal incidents to law enforcement authorities should be part of the due diligence that public authorities apply. i look forward to this debate. information networks and systems are increasingly important to our lives, and weak links in the chain let down the whole system and our whole economy. let us work together to make europe secure and ready and to ensure that europe is protected. let us work together to show that democracy can cope with technology, and let us work together to show that governments and law-makers are part of the solution to online trust, not part of the problem.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, commissioner, in the minute i have i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr schwab, for the work he has done, and my committee - the committee on industry, research and energy - on whose behalf i am speaking as rapporteur. i would like to refer mainly to what has been the exclusive competence of this committee: the coordination of information and the development of cooperation at european level. the commission's position has been one of flexibility. the cybersecurity protection systems are different in all member states. we felt that it was not advisable to have a single competent authority. the same logic has been applied to the development of computer emergency response teams, the so-called certs, also in a flexible way, since they are organised differently in the different member states of the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information society is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we have adopted a resolution on an open, secure and secure cyberspace, we have adopted a proposal for a directive on the accessibility of web pages and we are now going to adopt a proposal for a directive to ensure a high common level of network and information security in the union. network and information security is of great importance to the economic system and to society as a whole. the lack of security of networks and information can compromise vital services for society and negatively affect the lives and confidence of citizens. this directive should be considered to cover operators in the electricity, oil and gas, transport, banking, financial markets, healthcare, water production and supply and the food chain. the aim is to provide european users with minimum standards guaranteeing reliability, security, transparency, simplicity, interoperability and risk reduction, guarantees which should apply to all networks and all information systems. this directive will boost european r & d & i in these areas and help smes to become more aware of network security and to develop their own network security capabilities. security must be ensured in all digital spaces, whether consulted via mobile media or any other device. this directive seeks to avoid arbitrariness between member states by guaranteeing the fundamental rights of information and communication which are inherent in the rule of law. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity strategy. european cybersecurity must combat espionage, which undermines the sovereignty of the union and its states, by ensuring the protection of personal data. all these dimensions must be taken into account in the negotiations of the european union with third countries, such as the ongoing negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement, in order to preserve the sovereignty of the union and the independence of its institutions.
member of the commission. - madam president, while listening to mr moreira, mr caspary and the other interventions, i gained confidence, but we need one more screening exercise to assess the performance of these business centres. nobody is denying the rationale of their existence, but these functionalities are clearly pointed out in your interventions. so from the point of view of cost benefit analyses, i think this sort of screening is necessary. more than anyone i am conscious of the constraints of the european budget, therefore i am committed to the most efficient use of taxpayers’ money. so this is my message to my colleagues after this debate.
member of the commission. - madam president, i will take the issue of sea bass conservation first. thank you for raising this question with the commission. we have been discussing the issue of sea bass conservation with parliament since 2012. since that time, there have been two developments. on the one hand, we have more scientific evidence concerning stocks and sustainability, and on the other, we have a clear reform of the common fisheries policy. as for the scientific evidence – namely the evidence about reduced biomass – they are asking that less sea bass be fished. the commission, accepting the evidence, supports this point. as for the reform of the common fisheries policy, we now have regionalisation. therefore, the member states should assume their responsibilities and develop their current national controls into a much more comprehensive management plan for this stock. this is a sort of bottom-up approach. i take account of the interventions made here in the chamber, but the logic behind the common fisheries reform was about regionalisation. now it is time to implement this and check whether it is functioning or not. it is also our duty to assess the effectiveness of the national measures. therefore, we are asking the scientific community to evaluate whether they are sufficient or not. we support the member states, but this is the logic behind the common fisheries policies regionalisation reform. proposing a europe-wide quota – and mr cadec spoke clearly in favour of this – remains an option. however, we are all conscious that the majority of member states oppose this in favour of a kind of regionalisation where they have their own responsibilities and their own managerial capacities. this is, therefore, the current state of play. there is the logic of the scientific evidence on one side and, on the other, regionalisation as the logic of fisheries reform. i take note of mr cadec’s intervention asking for the different logic of a europe-wide quota. but now the state of play is clear, and the majority of member states are not in favour of this europe-wide quota. as for mackerel fisheries, again we have been working together with parliament for more than four years in order to find a solution, and there is evidence that the stock is moving. we should take into account the sensitivities of some of the member states affected. there is clear evidence about the stock, and now we have the good news that yesterday we were finally able to reach an agreement between the european union – as mr gallagher mentioned – norway and the faroe islands, without iceland. it is disappointing that, although two of these are involved, iceland is staying outside the agreement. this was after long, intensive discussions between the commission and the other interested parties. i cannot agree that this was done without taking into account the best interests of fishermen here in the european union and also the sustainability of stocks, which is the other part of the problem. now we have a sharing agreement for five years. that at least gives us predictability and a stable context for fishing for mackerel in the atlantic. for me and my colleague, ms damanaki, it is disappointing that iceland is not part of this. i note that there are calls for sanctions. this is one option. however, i think today we should share the good news that we at least have predictability and sustainability with two of the countries involved. i do not think that this is bad news for fishermen and their families in spain, portugal, france, ireland, the united kingdom and the other eu countries. of course, the initiative remains with the commission. i have taken into account what i have heard from you, and probably what i will hear in a couple of minutes from other members. the current state of play is that we have an agreement with two countries. with iceland, the door to the agreement is still open, but i note the strong calls for sanctions.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, as this is a joint debate, i shall concentrate on the mackerel, since mr cadec has spoken of the sea bass. and the first thing i want to do is to regret the absence of the commissioner for fisheries, but i think she should regret it more, because it was one of the few times that i was going to congratulate her, even if only partially, on the agreement reached last night between the coastal states of the north-east atlantic. this agreement has logically changed the intervention that was planned yesterday, and it is one of those occasions when one changes it gladly, because - as has already been said - the problem of mackerel fisheries is certainly not new. quite the opposite. there have been many initiatives, and i can say that the european parliament has been infinitely patient with this subject and with the commission. but when i was preparing for my speech yesterday, i had a few questions. i wondered why, at the end of the first quarter, no final agreement had yet been reached on tacs. in addition, in the case of a fishery such as mackerel, this delay could create very serious problems. i also wondered why it was allowed to give unilateral mackerel quotas to the faroe islands and iceland at the expense of the fishing interests of the other partners and, in particular, norway, with whom we have an agreement. i also wondered why the commission is so condescending to some non-compliant countries and so little to others, punishing them extremely harshly for things that it nevertheless allows others to do. why the double standard? he said the agreement was absolutely fundamental. i think so. but not at any price. a deal has been struck. a partial agreement, an agreement that increases spain's quota, which spain has led as it has also led that illegal fishing is not allowed to those who do not comply with the agreements, but there are flaws. iceland is left, it's been said here. i think the commission must be vigilant. it must be tough and it cannot have any condescension towards countries that do not comply, whatever their names are. if they're called iceland, too, commissioner. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i think that question should be put to the commission rather than to me. i can say, from my point of view, that this agreement is entirely satisfactory. if you ask me whether it is for the countries, it is certainly for spain: there is an increase in the quota of over 40 000 tonnes and fishermen will know with certainty what they will be able to catch. another thing is that we have different interests, and in that sense we could have very different views. but i think the commission would be much better able to answer that question than i am.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would like to congratulate commissioner damanaki because it is right to do so on the agreement reached with norway and the faroe islands, but also to point out that we still need more transparency, more participation and more scientific rigour in order to conclude the negotiations with iceland. we cannot tolerate iceland unilaterally increasing its quota any further, when we have seen that since 2006 it has increased the number of catches by a factor of 23. we cannot tolerate this because the european fleet, including the basque fleet, does not have enough quota and needs to increase it in order to continue its activity in a profitable and sustainable way. i would therefore like to ask the commission what they are going to do with iceland, whether they are going to impose sanctions or not, and i would also like to ask the spanish government, to the extent of its control capabilities, to contribute the corresponding part also to the basque fleet, which is in great need of it, within the quota it will now have as a result of this agreement of 40 000 tonnes.
madam president, 2014 may be the year the cabal war ends. this fishery has been the subject of controversy for years in the field of external relations, but also in the internal sphere of the member states. during the last few days, hundreds of galician sailors from the area have been protesting against the distribution of the spanish quota of mackerel and horse mackerel. the solution to this problem rests on two pillars: putting an end to instability and uncertainty in the area of coastal states and finding fair and balanced solutions in each member state, in particular an appropriate division between the craft of trawling and minor craft such as fencing. i have argued that despite the changes in migration patterns, if historically the european union had a catch of 90% with norway, it cannot be reasonable that iceland and the faroe islands have reached 52% in 2013. we have therefore supported the regulation on sustainability measures and its application to the faroe islands and we welcome the agreement reached yesterday in london, which opens the door, also, for iceland to join. we believe that the agreement can strengthen the european union's relations with norway, which contributed to the increase in stocks by 64% in 2014, and, above all, should make it possible to reach a bilateral fisheries agreement with this country covering the whole sector. now is the time to complete the work, also at the level of the member states. i would like to say that we are calling for a better understanding of the situation of the sea bass so that appropriate management measures can be taken.
madam president, i too join in the congratulations on the agreement reached yesterday in london for five years, which also rewards eu fishermen and in some ways does not reward those who have been fishing illegally, as is the case in iceland. and if iceland does not comply with the rules for sustainable fishing in the future, there are legal instruments currently in force in the european union which can be used to impose trade sanctions on iceland, as the european parliament has repeatedly called for. but i insist on this deal. at the moment, eu fishermen are already at a limit because of the shortage of mackerel quotas, and i believe that this quota of 611[nbsp]205 tonnes will, as i say, give them a break. in the specific case of spain, this represents an increase of 136[nbsp ]% compared to the previous year's quota, an increase which, as an adapted quota, is 77[nbsp ]% and which our administration has already allocated to the various forms of fishing, such as coastal trawling, fencing and other arts other than trawling and fencing, both in the northwest and in the cantabrian. i hope that this will solve the serious problems we have had so far.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, thank you for raising these points and for your contributions. i am here to defend the agreement from yesterday. i think it is balanced and creates a stable framework for fishing. as for iceland, this was a disappointing development, but i think one more attempt should be made to get iceland on board within the sharing agreement before sanctions are taken. greenland’s unilateral action in not seeking the status of a coastal state is a matter of concern. the excuse for maria damanaki is very simple: she is at an important meeting. however, she promised yesterday to go into the details at the next meeting of the committee on fisheries. turning to the question of sea bass, i see that we have a development that is not entirely accepted here in the house, namely regionalisation, or member state responsibility for the management of fishing controls. i hear what you are saying, as i heard what you said about sanctions against iceland, and i take account of both points: you have spoken with a strong voice on the mackerel question, on sanctions for non-contractual parties, and also on having a europe-wide quota as an option for sea bass.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that does not mean that the budget is not useful or necessary and that it cannot make a difference where we decide to invest it. it is possible that some economic data are beginning to show signs of improvement or at least are no longer catastrophic, but unfortunately the citizens are not feeling that improvement in their daily lives: they are still facing the same dramas and the same problems. so in the midst of this economic crisis, with public accounts in the toilet, we have to be very clear about how we want to get out of the crisis, what we want europe to be in the future and how we want to compete with the other great powers and, of course, what role the european budget has to play in achieving these objectives. the european union's competitiveness depends on talent, knowledge, better education, more erasmus grants, more research and innovation, greater internationalisation of our companies and a strong industrial policy, and of course, decisive support for our small and mediumsized enterprises, facilitating their access to credit. that is why i want the priorities of the european budget for 2015 to be concentrated on these areas and i want us to make a special effort to increase funding in these programmes. it is true that we are limited by a restrictive and narrow financial framework, but this does not prevent us from using all the instruments of flexibility at our disposal and putting more money today - not tomorrow - into those programmes which we consider essential. for this budget the 2014, we have already agreed to bring forward investment from other years. and for the 2015 budget this is also the path i want to propose. our young people, our unemployed, our companies and our economies cannot wait for the investments planned for 2020. it is now that we need to strengthen the european youth guarantee or when smes need the guarantees to get financing and carry out their projects, or when entrepreneurs need our help, not in five years' time. the same applies to foreign policy, development cooperation and humanitarian aid. the countries that are receiving our assistance cannot wait. where humanitarian aid is needed, where hospitals are being built, where thousands of refugees are being cared for, they need us to deliver on our commitment. we are aware of the situation of the treasuries of the member states, but we also have to be consistent with our promises and our agreements. the situation of defaults in the european union in recent years is becoming unsustainable. every year the deficit gets bigger. in 2013 we ended up with an amount of almost 25 billion euros unpaid. parliament has been warning of this situation for some time, and we have not tired of calling on the council to put a solution to this real problem once and for all. but it seems the council doesn't want to see him. the problem is that, even if they prefer to look the other way, the bills are not going to pay themselves and the longer they take to accept reality, the bigger the problem we are going to face. because what is the point of talking about commitments for 2015 here today if the 2014 budget is unfinished, unpaid? 25 billion euros, almost 20% of the budget. that's why i'm asking you not to play with the payout level. that they do not use the european budget as a variable for adjusting their national budgets. don't see your cut as a savings opportunity, because you'll be wrong. we will fail if we believe that cutting the budget or not paying what we have committed to will solve our problems. behind these 25 billion euros that are not paid are institutions, regions, municipalities, universities, research centres, ngos, students and entrepreneurs. in short, there are committed european citizens who are making europe. and our responsibility here today is to rise to the occasion, to put in the money we need and to show people that europe is not built on words alone. that behind those words there are commitments, there is a budget and that we will do everything possible to get out of this situation.
member of the commission. - madam president, with this discussion today the 2015 budget is already a work in progress. i would like to draw your attention to the link – the interplay – between this year’s budget and next year’s budget. we need to reinforce the budget this year in order to meet eligible expenditure even if we are in a crisis, because if you are in a crisis you still need to pay electricity bills. this is a matter of credibility, and it is what we should do this year. it will also help to create a better starting point for next year’s budget (2015), to reduce the so-called backlog. moreover, this year’s and next year’s budgets are both critical with regard to implementation of the new initiatives on youth employment and better access for small and medium-sized companies. both are essential during this time of fragile recovery. this is again a test of credibility. i cannot agree with ms[nbsp ]andreasen that there is no clear link between the budgets of europe and the crises throughout europe. no: we have clear, empirical evidence, for example from the country i know best, poland, that you cannot explain an economy growing throughout the crisis without investment funds from brussels. the same goes for countries such as lithuania, latvia etc., which were under the same umbrella to give them a better chance of recovery from the crisis. empirical evidence concerning jobs and growth input is available to everybody. i can only agree that, in future, it will not be ‘business as usual’ because we have less money for more european obligations. therefore we also need to make savings in administration. we are cutting jobs in administration by 5[nbsp ]%, and the agencies should be part of this exercise too. humanitarian aid is, for very good reasons, the exception: we should have more money for this. however, i forecast real tensions over humanitarian disasters around europe, with syria being number one. we face the question of how to accommodate these responsibilities with aid for ukraine. mr[nbsp ]claeys asked about the structure of this aid, which amounts to eur[nbsp ]1.6[nbsp ]billion. we are now identifying real needs for hot money for ukraine. the eur[nbsp ]1.6 billion is intended as macroeconomic assistance: this is about loans under the guarantee of the european budget. this is feasible and available within our budget. the remaining eur[nbsp ]1.4 billion earmarked is for neighbourhood projects, one of which is vital to the future of ukraine, namely a state-building contract. this is about projects for the next couple of years conditional on real reforms and real improvement in statehood, the rule of law and the corruption laws in the country. this is about loans via the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development. the answer to mr[nbsp ]mulder’s question will come in written form. with regard to pre-accession money, this is part of what has always been allocated to the countries in the process of moving towards accession to the eu. it is our soft power for convergence – for upgrading the economies of accession countries. despite all the tensions affecting the budget, we feel that, yes, with the support of parliament – which was so evident in relation to the 2014 reinforcements – we can manage.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. and i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the alternative rapporteurs and the political groups. as you can see, mr commissioner, the vast majority of the political groups in this house and the vast majority of members have the same objectives and the same priorities for the 2015 budget. the council also wants to use the budget to help people get out of the crisis, to create jobs, to help young people and so on. but when we look beyond those priorities and see how we have to pay for those commitments, we have differences with the council. and it is a pity and we have seen it here today: when we are debating the future and when we are talking about the 2015 budget, we have to spend more time talking about the past than the future. because of the past we still have 23 billion and a peak of unpaid euros in structural funds, plus some unpaid bills in the categories of innovation, investment, employment, and so on. and it is a pity that we have to spend another year talking about how we are going to pay these bills, because it is very easy to talk about priorities with the council - we all want to get out of the crisis and we all want to improve the european union - but when it comes to paying, some of us argue that these bills have to be paid and others prefer to look the other way. that is why they know full well that they will have the support of the european parliament when they present the 2015 budget. they know that they will have the support of the european parliament when they ask for the bills to be paid. so all we ask of the commission is to take account of the priorities of this parliament, to put the programmes into place, to put more money where it is needed and to move forward to 2015 those expenditure we had planned for 2017, 2018 and 2019, because now is when we need that investment.
president of the committee on fisheries. - madam president, i would like to inform you by telegram on behalf of the committee on fisheries that, fortunately, an agreement was reached yesterday between the european union and the coastal states of the north-east atlantic. although we do not know the details of it, it seems that it makes no sense to vote for this resolution because of what it means. however, iceland has not joined this agreement and we are particularly concerned that unilateral agreements on allocated quotas are still being adopted, so we ask the commission to follow this matter very closely and to inform us fully and immediately of the terms of the agreement. we therefore ask that the resolution not be voted on in the terms in which it is proposed.
in writing. - i voted against this report on the asylum and migration fund because i am in deep disagreement with the eu's political guidelines on migration, and in particular with regard to this asylum fund. the provisions of this fund for the respect of fundamental rights and the protection of migrants are insufficient in view of their repressive and regressive content. migration pressure and asylum claims are considered at the same level, mixing immigration with security and the fight against human trafficking. budgetary costs in this fund are borne by the integration, asylum and resettlement programmes. i will not vote for this report or any other report which goes further on the idea of a 'strong europe'.
in writing. - in favour. the policies relating to the area of freedom, security and justice have been growing steadily in recent years. that is why, at the beginning of the new 2014–2020 programming period, the european commission has proposed overhauling the financial instruments in the field of home affairs. it rightly believes that with all these proposals it will be able to address past shortcomings and respond to current and future challenges. with this in mind, the commission plans to increase by almost 40[nbsp ]% the home affairs budget over the current multiannual financial framework (2007–2013). it also aims to simplify the structure of available finance and its allocation and delivery mechanisms. the number of programmes will be reduced to a two-fund structure: an asylum and migration fund and an internal security fund. in addition to these thematic instruments, a horizontal regulation will now establish a shared set of rules on programming, reporting, financial management, controls and assessment.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this report because, while i am in favour of ratifying the hong kong convention as a good instrument for the proper treatment of ship recycling from oecd countries in oecd member countries, i consider it an insufficient instrument, as i believe there should be more international legislation binding on all countries, as it is a problem which will not be solved at regional level - the oecd countries - but at a wider international level.
in writing. - in favour. the hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships was adopted on 15[nbsp ]may[nbsp ]2009 under the auspices of the international maritime organisation. it will need to be ratified by the major flag and recycling states in order to enter into force and start producing effects. by 9[nbsp ]january[nbsp ]2014, the convention had been signed by five parties, and only one party had so far acceded to it (norway) (1). many anticipate that the convention will not enter into force before 2020.
in writing. - i voted categorically against this report which i believe is one of the most crucial of the legislature, as it provides a firm endorsement of the troika's policies. the report recognises the power of the european institutions to act on the deficit of the states, to suggest to young people that they freely exercise their right to freedom of movement in the eu. the report also welcomes the role of the troika in resolving the economic crisis, stressing that it is precisely the troika's policy that has brought about this situation. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. - amendment no 56: i agree with the increase in the eu budget to combat the social problems of the countries with memoranda of understanding, but i do not support the figure mentioned in the amendment, given the lack of a detailed explanation of the amendment.
in writing. - i voted categorically against this report because it endorses the policies of the troika and their consequences for european citizenship; moreover, it comes from one of the two groups - the social democrats - which, together with the people's party, endorsed and agreed all the policies emanating from the troika which aim to reduce the cost of labour and increase the number of unemployed, and, secondly, to promote the privatisation of the public sectors so that others - the big banks and the big companies - can do business at their expense.
in writing. - the efforts of the troika to avoid bankruptcy in countries such as greece, portugal, ireland and cyprus are to be commended. however, we must recognize the severe social impact that these measures are having on the citizens of these countries, especially in terms of a decrease in employment, contributing to the destruction of employment and an unexpected increase in poverty. it is important to rethink the way in which measures which cannot and do not affect all countries in the same way, because they are so different despite being member states, are applied, and to reconsider the role of the international monetary fund and the european central bank so that the strategies to be implemented are better defined.
in writing. - amendment no 24: i abstain because, with regard to evictions, reference should be made to the recent adoption of the european directive on mortgages. amendment no 13: i agree with the substance but would advocate a less coarse wording of the amendment.
in writing. - i voted against this report on the asylum and migration fund because i am profoundly opposed to the eu's policy on migration, and in particular to this asylum fund. the provisions of this fund for the respect of fundamental rights and the protection of migrants are insufficient in view of their repressive and regressive content. migration pressure is considered on a par with asylum claims, mixing immigration with security and the fight against human trafficking. budgetary costs in this fund are borne by the integration, asylum and resettlement programmes. i will not vote for this report or any other report which goes further on the idea of a 'strong europe'.
in writing. - this fund succeeds the european refugee fund, the european integration fund and the european return fund, and is intended to be a major step forward towards the objectives set out, which will be achieved by this regulation. this new financial instrument is going to be a great help in facilitating legal migration in an almost exponential way. it will also help to increase transparency in the management of these specific funds, achieving stronger results by focusing on quality rather than quantity.
in writing. - in favour. our concerns have not been properly addressed in the trilogues. although there were minor improvements compared with the council’s mandate (such as deletion of the reference to eu pnr), our key point is there: it is possible to have actions designed by member states concerning third countries and in those countries, which will be financed from the police component of the internal security fund. the allocation for the member states / the eu is disproportionately in favour of the former. thus, we voted against the first reading agreement.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is part of the logic of strengthening the 'europe of strength' in the face of immigration, considering it as a problem of european security. i will not in any way support this or any other report which does not have as its primary objective the respect for the fundamental rights of migrants. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. - this internal security fund, of which this instrument will form part, will contribute in an appropriate way to increasing the existing levels of security in the european union, especially as regards the borders where visas are applied in the schengen area, always taking into account the absolute commitment to fundamental freedoms and of course to human rights. this requires support for a policy leading to a common visa and integrated management of borders and border security, but with a clear and precise delimitation of the role that the frontex agency has to have and play.
in writing. - in favour. in 2010 the digital agenda for europe was already calling for the introduction of legislative instruments aimed at a high-level network and information security policy. due to the interconnectedness of network and information systems, significant disruptions of these in one member state can affect other member states and the union as a whole. the resilience and stability of network and information systems as well as the continuity of core services are essential for the smooth functioning of the internal market and in particular for the further development of the digital single market. in view of the different levels of capabilities and fragmented approaches across the union, the european commission in its present proposal for a directive concerning measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security across the union aims at improving the security of the internet and the private networks and information systems which support the functioning of our societies and economies.
in writing. - in favour. parliament points out that the financial envelope specified in the legislative proposal constitutes only an indication to the legislative authority and cannot be fixed until agreement is reached on the proposal for a regulation laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020, and stresses the need, therefore, to create close linkage between the financing programme and the objectives of the reform of the recipient bodies, in the interests of the union.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive on the making available on the market of radio equipment includes essential provisions for the protection of health and safety, as well as for electromagnetic compatibility and harmful interference, and therefore addresses the operational deficiencies of the current directive 1999/5/ec. the aim is to increase the level of compliance in the member states and to clarify and simplify the regulatory framework, in line with the new legislative framework for the marketing of products. the report proposes that radio equipment should interoperate with accessories, in particular that mobile phones should be compatible with a universal charger.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the directive proposed by the ec provides a framework for placing radiological equipment on the market. it includes requirements for health and safety protection, electromagnetic compatibility and to avoid interference harmful to health. these requirements are translated into harmonised but non-binding standards. the ec proposes to register radiological products before they are placed on the market. when member states exercise the competence to legislate in respect of such equipment, it must be in accordance with the ec directive. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - in favour. this report brings modifications to the proposal of the european commission to revise directive 1999/5/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 9 march 1999 on radio equipment and telecommunications terminal equipment and the mutual recognition of their conformity (r&tte directive). the proposal is closely related to the implementation of the new legislative framework (nlf) adopted in 2008 as ‘the goods package’. the r&tte directive establishes a framework for the placing on the market, free movement and putting into service in the eu of radio equipment and telecommunications terminal equipment. the directive entered into force in 1999 and has been crucial to achieving an internal market in this area. the directive includes essential requirements for the protection of health and safety, of electromagnetic compatibility and for the avoidance of harmful interference. these requirements are translated into technical requirements within non-mandatory harmonised standards, as in other ‘new approach’ legislation.
in writing. - the european parliament represents the voice of the eu's citizens. and they have been demanding harmonization of chargers for their mobile and portable devices, to end not only a mountain of chargers (which even poses a storage problem), but a real problem of waste of this kind, which, according to estimates, amounts to no less than 51 000 tonnes per year. the exponential increase in the number of radio equipment on the market and in homes makes this harmonization of a standard that will reduce costs in general, and of course for the citizen in particular, all the more necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not recycled, and that the waste is not disposed of in a waste-to-energy facility. it is expected that within three years this standard will be fully implemented in all member states and respected by all manufacturers.
in writing. - i could not in any way vote in favour of this report, since it is clearly made with a view to the forthcoming european elections on 25 may, on the basis of false ambitions based on the mistaken belief that we are getting out of the crisis. these false grand objectives reaffirm the need to invest in education, research, smes, to help create jobs. but they're all hollow intentions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in short, this report reaffirms the eu's political orientation which has led to the crisis we are in.
mr stadler, we are in the explanatory vote on the vote itself. we are not on a shift where you explain mr posselt's vote or mr kelly's vote. you have to explain your vote - which you did not explain in the minute you had - instead of explaining the vote of other members who are already old and responsible to do it themselves.
mr posselt, i would appeal to your experience as a long-standing member of parliament to ask you to confine yourself to explaining your vote, which is what is appropriate at this moment, without responding to any comments that may have been made about you.
mr posselt, you have not explained your vote on the matter we are dealing with here either. we are being very tolerant of all those who are not explaining their vote at the explanation of vote.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the resolution and did not vote on the amendments. the inclusion of the concept that crimea is an indivisible part of ukraine and closing the door to one of the possible democratic solutions to the situation - the application of the right to decide of the crimean citizenship - includes an element in the text that i cannot support, even considering that the invasion of russia is condemnable and that the referendum in crimea does not have sufficient democratic and transparency guarantees.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because, as its title indicates, it deals with only one of the aspects arising from the crisis in ukraine. there is not a single mention in it of the coup d'état that took place in ukraine, sponsored by the united states, with its secretary of state at the head, and by the eu. there is not a single mention of the fact that, as a result of this coup d'état, far-right groups and the most reactionary sectors of the country are being supported, who are seizing power after months of destabilization and violence and the instrumentalization of the deep discontent of broad layers of the population as a result of capitalism in ukraine over the last two decades. the resolution also rejects the brutal interference of the united states, the eu and nato in the ukrainian situation, which through this support for neo-nazi groups seeks to achieve political, economic and military dominance in a country of geostrategic value such as ukraine.
in writing. - the european parliament has been firm in its view of what it considers to be a clear violation of international law and a threat to stability, not only in the region but in europe as a whole, by the russian government in connection with the situation in ukraine. the position is clear: russia is required to withdraw immediately the troops illegally present in that country, as this clearly constitutes an unjustified invasion. on the other hand, the holding of a referendum in crimea is contrary to the crimean constitution and contravenes international law, as it attempts to change the recognized borders unilaterally. this would imply, should moscow's aggression persist, the need to apply sanctions ranging from visa restrictions to measures against russian companies, especially those in the energy sector, and asset freezes. the european parliament is of course also continuing to promote the possibility for ukraine to apply for membership of the union in accordance with the relevant treaty.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because, although there is a timid criticism of the role of the european parliament after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is clearly insufficient, and the report itself strengthens the macro-powers conferred on the european commission. the absolutely undemocratic institutional design, where the european parliament - the legitimate representative of the european citizens - has no legislative initiative, is not questioned in this report. i cannot therefore support the report and i have abstained.
in writing. - there are 1 [nbsp ]200 million people worldwide who occupy real estate over which they have no formal rights. this situation, which is so common in developing countries, means that these assets cannot be protected or moved, and thus represent unproductive and illegal capital. no one can determine who it belongs to, resources cannot be exchanged for their net present value, and wealth cannot be exchanged or used as primary or secondary collateral in future investments. at the same time, in these countries, the process of remedying irregularities and becoming a registered legal entity is fraught with high monetary and procedural costs and may take several years. the total of this unrecorded extralegal wealth is estimated to exceed us$9.3 trillion, 93 times the total amount of all foreign aid given to developing countries over the past 30 years. the introduction of legal regimes on property and the training of people to control their own resources would therefore be a clear step forward for these developing countries.
in writing. - i abstained from this vote because the report proposes an arbitration mechanism which gives the president of the european commission the power to ensure the consistency of eu development policies in the event of divergences between union policies. i did not vote in favour because i think it would give the president of the commission powers that are not his and because it would diminish the powers of other areas in such sensitive matters as development.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, despite expressing concern at the situation of the egyptian people, it continues to maintain the typical interventionist line of this parliament, despite the fact that this is a situation caused by the very support that some member states gave to the mubarak government. this resolution contains some worrying facts which reflect and introduce the eu's legitimate concern about the situation facing the egyptian people, but it offers no alternatives and supports the continuation of eu intervention, which will only lead to a further radicalization of the conflict. i have therefore been unable to vote in favour of this resolution.
we shall conclude with the explanations of vote.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on russia: condemnation of demonstrators involved in the events in bolotnaya square (2014/2628 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. - mr president, your resolution allows us the opportunity once more to address the shrinking space for civil society in russia and for respect for the rule of law which we are now observing in russia. of course, today we are discussing domestic issues in russia in the context of a display of power politics outside its borders. as for the background to your resolution, this is very well known in the house. this was largely a peaceful demonstration which started in march 2012 – nothing resembling mass riots, as stated in the verdict of the court. there were some clashes – probably provoked – on bolotnaya square. therefore, we fully share your views – the views of this parliament – on the verdict of 24[nbsp ]february. this was clearly expressed by the vice-president/high representative when she voiced her concern on the verdict for three reasons. firstly, the charges do not match the reality of events. i repeat that there was nothing resembling ‘mass riots’. secondly, the sentences are of several years in prison. they are not in proportion to the light nature of the events. thirdly, there is an issue which was not mentioned in the house but is equally important – and the eu delegation was observing the trial. this is that the trial suffered procedural shortcomings. this is the third reason for deep concern. so here is a serious question concerning the state of the rule of law in russia. i personally have no illusions, so i plan to react and we plan to keep following the trials of mr udaltsov and mr razvozzhayev. they are also accused of being the masterminds behind these events, and our delegation intends to observe closely the appeal processes of those who have already been sentenced. we should use all avenues to call on russia to uphold its international human rights commitments. i take note of some of your comments asking for sanctions – and rightly so – in your interventions. however, this is a measure of last resort. it requires the unanimity of the member states and should be watertight if contested in court.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the opening of consultations with a view to suspending the application of the cotonou agreement to uganda and nigeria following the recent legislation which further criminalises homosexuality (2014/2634 (rsp)). i would like to inform the honourable members that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is meeting in this very building the day after tomorrow and that, at a meeting this morning between the european members of the bureau of the joint parliamentary assembly, we decided that the text now adopted on this point will be used as a reference for the european parliament's position on such a serious matter, on the occasion of the bureau meeting and the plenary of the joint parliamentary assembly, where, amongst others, the parliamentarians of uganda and nigeria are of course present.
author. - mr president, once again we have to condemn the adoption of the same-sex marriage act in nigeria and the homosexuality act in uganda. these laws constitute great threats to the universal right to life, to freedom of expression and of association, and – ultimately – to freedom from torture, cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. sexual orientation and gender identity are matters falling within the remit of individuals’ rights to privacy, as guaranteed by international law and national constitutions. lgtbi equality is an undeniable element of fundamental human rights. by signing these anti-homosexuality acts, the governments of uganda and nigeria fail to fulfil an obligation stemming from respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law, as referred to in article 9(2) of the cotonou agreement. it is for all these reasons that we call on the commission to immediately launch consultations under article 96 of the cotonou agreement with uganda and nigeria with a view to their possible suspension from the agreement, and to take any appropriate measures while they are being conducted.
member of the commission. - mr president, what is under discussion today is the recent legislation penalising homosexuals in uganda and nigeria. this is, of course, not the only case of discrimination against the lgbti community around the world. the eu has a strong and principled position against all forms of discrimination. in june[nbsp ]2013, the council adopted eu guidelines to promote and protect the enjoyment of all human rights by lgbti persons. this is equivalent to protecting homosexuals against discrimination. in opposing recent legislation in uganda and nigeria, the eu is – and will remain – committed to the principle of the universality of human rights. our position is that cultural, traditional or religious values cannot be invoked to justify any form of discrimination. some members of this parliament have today called for the launch of article 96 consultations with nigeria and uganda. in our view, immediate resort to article 96 would be premature. we have some other opportunities for dialogue, and we are already engaged in very frank discussions with both authorities. the eu will meet the ugandan authorities for a round of enhanced political dialogue under article 8 of cotonou on 28[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014. then we have a ministerial dialogue in june, and some other opportunities were mentioned by derek vaughan. i have to say that no payments from our budgets will be made at this stage, so there is – in practice – a freeze. we expect that the outcome of these meetings will be of great importance in determining how our relations with both countries, nigeria and uganda, will develop under the cotonou agreement in the months ahead. so this is to determine the next steps that we should take.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on security and trafficking in human beings in the sinai (2014/2630 (rsp)).
member of the commission. - mr president, the security situation – including human trafficking and other abuses in sinai – is very worrying indeed, and it poses a risk for the neighbouring countries and the overall region. i would like to recall the statement made by the high representative, baroness ashton, on 17[nbsp ]february[nbsp ]2014, condemning the terrorist attack in sinai and reaffirming the eu’s commitment to supporting stability and security in egypt. we are raising this concern, but we are also requesting that the un high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) and the international organisation for migration (iom) gain full access so that they can execute their mandate. this was always very high on the agenda of the formal dialogues of the association agreement between egypt and the eu. we are already supporting governmental and non-governmental efforts to protect migrants’ human rights along the so-called east african road. therefore, we welcome your resolution, and i am pleased to announce that our involvement is increasing. the commission’s position is that this has to be tackled with a regional approach. the european external action service, including the eu special representative for the horn of africa, mr rondos, and the eu special representative for human rights, mr lambrinidis, are engaging with all the stakeholders on the ground to find a common approach. in this respect, i also recall the involvement of europol, on the initiative of commissioner malmström, in investigating – among other issues – the kidnapping for ransom and holding of irregular migrants in sinai. we are ready to support the egyptian authorities, but of course the major responsibility is theirs. we are therefore ready to assist egypt with the overall security sector reform, which concerns not only the situation in sinai but also the quality of the egyptian state.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the votes: see minutes)
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.35 p.m.)
the commission has already taken a number of important decisions in this area, and i am sure that the council will be able to take them into account in the future. to this end, it is essential to mention three aspects of this legislative proposal which i consider to be key. firstly, to improve the conditions for the development and coordination of spectrum. an extension of the duration of european licences to 25 years, together with better european coordination, will be crucial to develop mobile broadband and the deployment of 4g and 5g and subsequent technologies, and thus to boost the growth of our economy. i shall also refer to the second factor. it is essential - and this is the aim of the proposal put forward by the committee on industry, research and energy - to have an open and unclosed internet, with opportunities for everyone: opportunities for users, for companies, for organisations, for buyers and sellers, for creators, for education, for health, for the youngest and the oldest. an open internet, not a closed one; an inclusive internet, not an exclusive one; an internet with opportunities for all: users, businesses, sellers, buyers, education, health, and so on. for all of us. it is important, in my view, and key, in this concept of an open and inclusive internet, that the internet serves to drive innovation; that innovation is driven rather than, on the contrary, retarded and limited. boosting talent and innovation is absolutely essential if europe is to be at the forefront and to exercise leadership in the world economy. on the other hand, it should also be noted, as this proposal, which has already been adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy, suggests, that this is an internet without discrimination, without interference, with guarantees for everyone; in short, that 'in the same way as elsewhere in the world with economies that play a major role of global leadership', our companies here too have the same opportunities to take advantage of an open internet, to take advantage of all the momentum offered by such an extraordinary communication platform as the internet. europe must also seize this opportunity. it cannot develop only in other parts of the world while europe is left behind by a short-term vision, by a very narrow vision of the full potential and benefit of the internet for all. and finally, it is time to end roaming charges. it is time that, when leaving their countries, when putting just half an inch of their body outside, citizens are not forced to face those extraordinary costs to reconnect with their loved ones, with their businesses, with their workplaces or with their friends. we cannot talk all day long about mobility, the european union project, the internal market, etc., and use so much rhetoric, only to find ourselves in a situation where connectivity is penalized, mobility is penalized, identification with the european project is penalized. it is time to break down another barrier in europe: the roaming barrier!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on telecommunications is crucial for europe. the european union is also committed to the development of the internet, which is a key element of any democracy. that's why we need more broadband coverage. we must close the digital divide and make internet access an inalienable right for all citizens, but we also do not want an internet with limited potential. we socialists are committed to quality access, an open internet and net neutrality. only then will the internet remain a fair platform for competition, innovation and equality. finally, i also welcome the call for roaming to end in 2015. it is a clear message from this parliament and one which we socialists have been defending. i am glad that the other groups are following us on this issue and i assume that the citizens of europe will be happy too. my congratulations to everyone who has worked on this package.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, this is a very important moment for all citizens who are in love with their mobile; for every government and every business that can boost efficiency, effectiveness, productivity and performance with digital; and for every dynamic telco that wants to cross the continent and face the future. you have touched upon the future; it is not about yesterday but about tomorrow. for all these reasons, your positive vote tomorrow is very important: ending roaming and blocking; a better broadband deal; convenience; trust; openness; innovation; safeguarding the open internet for everyone. i am very pleased that everyone is in favour of an open internet. we are on the same page: more european thinking for the resources that matter to our future on the vast majority of this package. you are in agreement, which i have noticed with great satisfaction. many have spoken on the issue of net neutrality. i repeat my earlier call: forbidding new services – and, thank heaven, only a few mentioned doing so – is not the way to promote innovation and is a poor way to safeguard an open, connected continent. our proposal will not create a two-speed internet. i repeat: there will not be a two-speed internet. it will create an innovative, fast, forward internet, and that is completely different. i do not like to make an issue of something that is not based on reality. new safeguards and powers will ensure that specialised services cannot come at the expense of the open internet. i repeat that first there will be an open internet for everybody, with quality guaranteed, and then, if there is an opportunity, there will be specialised services, but within a framework to ensure that not everyone who is interested in making his service or product a specialised service will be accepted. no way. they will not cause deterioration in the public space that is the internet. i note that ms herczog mentioned not wanting to block specialised services. i agree with her – we are on the same page – but that is what would happen with the amendment on the definition of net neutrality. i will repeat what i said: an open internet for everybody, and certainly not a two-speed internet. if the possibilities are there, there is an opportunity and a challenge to offer specialised services. by the way, that is pushing telcos to invest, and that was the original idea for the whole package: how can we get investment in high-speed broadband? how can we get in the driving seat? ten months ago that was what you said to me, and i agreed with you. it would inhibit innovation and block business opportunities if we were to be on a different page. our proposal and the committee’s amendments represent a balanced approach that would safeguard innovation without discrimination. but if you decide to severely restrict specialised services – effectively blocking them, which is what that means in plain language – you must be aware of the consequences. so there must be no blocking of specialised services as long as they are not blocking the open internet and the quality guarantee. on the new opportunities, european citizens will miss out. on voluntary measures to stop serious crimes – ms ford mentioned child pornography. if there is one issue that is close to my heart it is fighting child pornography. it is not acceptable, and i am pleased that my dear colleague, ms malmström, is fighting like hell, and i am backing her on that issue. it is not acceptable in a decent society. if there are concerns about opening up to unjustified action against legitimate sites (which, by the way, i do not see as a problem), then a solution is to retain article 23(3) on the lawfulness of the information. for horrible things like child pornography that are illegal in national laws, there should be no obstacle to joint efforts to identify and block such sites. we are on the same page, ms ford. so the new proposal to delete article 23(3) should not go ahead. this is not the end of things. we have also recently set out plans on globalising internet governance and safeguarding the open, unified internet internationally, and i will be happy to present these to you. tomorrow you can safeguard an online world for our citizens: borderless, open, connected. let us take that step forward to connect a competitive continent. to finish, i would just like to mention the three rapporteurs, to whom i am very grateful. they did a great job and they did it extremely quickly. i do not agree with the honourable members who said that we need a minimum time for action and for the reaction of parliament versus commission. if we can do the job more quickly, the citizens will be grateful. one of the main complaints of european citizens is that we are too bureaucratic. this is an excellent example of all three rapporteurs and the shadows doing the job as quickly as possible within a single time period and i am grateful for that. i look forward to the vote.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i want to say to all my colleagues and to this house that tomorrow millions, no, thousands, millions and millions of european citizens will be looking at us and asking themselves: what is the european parliament for? and i have to say that it is essential that we support the series of measures contained in the proposal which has already been voted on by the committee on industry, research and energy and that, both in the development of spectrum for a better development, in turn, of mobile broadband, and in the concept of an open internet - a truly open internet, where no one is excluded, neither those who want to make certain developments on the internet, nor those who want to develop special services - innovation is encouraged, talent is encouraged. those who are most harmed by a closed vision, by a short-sighted vision, would be precisely the most innovative. and besides that, tomorrow you will be asking yourselves: what is parliament going to do? will you support the legislation that is being voted on which says that roaming, roaming, the costs we face for leaving our countries, for moving around the european union and for not having a really connected continent really prevent us from participating in that common project as we would like? are you going to support her or not? i would ask you all not to stay out tomorrow; i hope you will all be in and vote on this legislation on the internal telecommunications market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we look around the european union and we see our neighbourhood shores, from the mediterranean to ukraine; we see people yearning for freedom, security and justice. and this is the idea of europe, this is what europe is all about: the rule of law, fundamental rights, freedom, security and justice; this has been the case since the beginning of europe's ancient history, from athens to the treaties of rome and the treaty of lisbon. and this is what european citizens aspire to, not just our neighbours. the stockholm programme develops and consolidates this area of freedom, security and justice, which has been incorporated for the first time in the treaty of lisbon as a european policy and is subject to the legislative procedure of this european parliament, and thus marks a difference with the previous dimension of the third pillar, the tampere programme and its successor, the hague programme, which were strictly intergovernmental. this time the european parliament is involved and therefore with this report it is proposing its answer to two important questions: firstly, what have been the results of the stockholm programme and, secondly, what elements could inspire the programme that succeeds the stockholm programme, after the period 2009-2014. parliament has been aware that the institutions which make up the european union have in this institution the only directly elected representative of the citizens and, therefore, the first thing we need to know is whether june 2014, when the guidelines regarding the succession of the stockholm programme will be put forward, is the right time - when this parliament will not yet be formed, will not be in office - to send that message from the commission. but ensuring this area of freedom, security and justice also requires addressing specific issues which are incorporated in this report. the first is the answer to the so-called 'copenhagen dilemma'. the copenhagen commission, proposed in the report on fundamental rights in one of the member states of the european union, is a response to the need to ensure that these requirements of respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights are not only required when you knock on the door, but also thereafter, when you belong to the european club and throughout the entire membership of the club. secondly, the report raises the question of protecting the rights, in particular the rights of the least, of the most vulnerable. the fight against racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, religious intolerance, islamophobia and the fight against the rejection of roma, homophobia and transphobia are the backbone of the message on fundamental rights that must characterize european policy. and i would like to draw particular attention to the roma, given the lack of progress in the implementation of the national strategies that should have been developed in this period. we have made progress on procedural rights, in the justice chapter, for persons subject to, in particular, judicial investigation or prosecution, but much remains to be done, in particular with regard to pretrial detention and the detention of minors, as well as on free justice. we have been involved in lengthy negotiations to sign the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and thus fulfil the mandate of the lisbon treaty, which has unfortunately not yet been completed. and we have seen the needs arising from the area of justice in relation to the free movement of people, which is constantly under threat, especially in relation to the management of this crisis. i want to make an effective call for the need to complete european criminal law and to commit to the european public prosecutor's office, but as regards visa policy in the european union, border management and the external dimension of the area of freedom, justice and security, i believe that, while acknowledging the progress achieved, it is essential to take further steps in the future. what programme will this parliament have to undertake after stockholm? in any case, parliament must be involved. because it must be said that the european parliament is here to stay and that is why i am proposing an interinstitutional agreement on article 17 to ensure that the european parliament actually fulfils its mission. i would like to conclude by saying that if the european union... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, we must clarify interinstitutional conflicts in order to make our legislative work in the area of freedom, security and justice more flexible. we strongly renew our commitment to the rule of law and to quality democracy in all community institutions and member states. we must strengthen solidarity and shared responsibility, defending european values and the legal order in communion and harmony with the member states. we are committed to defending minorities and the most vulnerable, and all victims of violence, as well as to the determined fight against any kind of discrimination. the fight against organised crime and human trafficking in particular must be a priority for the union. there is a need to focus better on migration policies on asylum and border control, mobility, development and remittances. we must intensify intelligent, effective and concerted policies with countries of origin and transit, including for legal return. reception and integration must be carried out in conditions of dignity and in accordance with real and objective capacities. we must build a great institutional and political pact on the union's migration policies, respecting human rights. european solidarity in the field of asylum, aid, refuge and international protection must be organized and distributed. we must develop stockholm further and better and we must give the european parliament greater and greater involvement.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i shall speak very briefly to ask for a favourable vote on this own-initiative report on the stockholm programme and to express my thanks in advance to the colleagues who will vote in favour, because i believe - and i am convinced of this - that the area of freedom, security and justice is a step forward for the europe of rights, for the european union, represents the added value of the european institutions, but above all it is an affirmation of the power and the will of this parliament to commit itself to the rights of citizens. it has done so throughout this legislature - we have seen it in the data protection package - by affirming the right to privacy in the face of the threats of the digital revolution and mass spying, which we have learned about through the revelations about the activities of the us national security agency. but we have also done so in the field of security, because we have taken care to add value to the need of european citizens to feel more protected and more secure against transnational organized crime through the nascent european criminal law. we have also done so in our commitment to creating a shared judicial culture, with rules of mutual recognition and trust between the legal systems of the member states. but we do so above all when we make it clear that if europe is, for our neighbours and for those who look at us, the continent and the area of rights, it must be so above all for the citizens of europe, whom this parliament has the duty to represent.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
after these preliminary questions we shall now proceed to the vote.
what has been adopted is the position of the committee responsible.
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
the rapporteur. - madam president, we are faced today with the annual report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union, which is still - if possible and in view of the new european elections in may this year - the most fundamental for restoring the confidence of european citizens in the european institutions and their functioning and, above all, for ensuring that citizens' money is used correctly. when we talk about financial interests, we tend - in the annual reports - to talk almost always about budget implementation and expenditure and rarely do we concern ourselves with something that is as important, if not more so, than revenue: how this report and the fight to defend the financial interests of the union are also linked to the fight to ensure that revenue is what it should be. the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance must therefore also be a fundamental part of this defence of interests, especially when we take into account that a trillion euros are lost every year due to tax fraud and tax evasion, which amounts to two thousand euros per year and per citizen in the european union. so, in addition to worrying about the implementation of a budget that is increasingly limited, more static for the ambitions and mandates of the european union, we should also definitely join this fight in defence of the financial interests of the union with the work and the eradication of tax fraud and tax havens. we are pleased that the treaty of lisbon provides us with new instruments which oblige the european union, the commission and the member states to combat these activities, which are illegal and voluntary when we talk about fraud, but also to prevent irregularities and errors which can lead to such a fraudulent approach. however, we still find too much diversity and very different legal traditions in the fight against fraud, and we are concerned that the member states still - in the way they are applying some of the community rules - also manifest fairly centripete formulae. it is therefore urgent and unavoidable to achieve a more coherent and equivalent approach, so that greater coherence is achieved in the legal actions which are taken jointly and within the framework of the commission's mandate but which are essentially and for the most part the responsibility of the member states. we also feel that all the legislation that has been put forward since 2012 - the one related to the anti-fraud directive, the presentation of the proposal for the new european public prosecutor's office, the renewal and revision of olaf, its mandate and that of the monitoring committee that ensures its independence - is a set of fundamental instruments that we must put into place as soon as possible and not in a slow way. unfortunately, an amendment which i had not accepted, but which was finally adopted by a majority, suggests that all these new legislative instruments, essentially relating to the public prosecutor's office, etc., should be introduced slowly, although i do not agree with this and have tabled the amendment to try to avoid it. i mean, i understand that these are urgent measures that we need to implement as soon as possible, so that we have that framework as soon as possible, and therefore i think we should argue that it should not be taken too slowly. i think that the european rules are sufficiently well thought out. we have been preparing for this criminal framework for years, and we should not now say that it needs to be slower. i also stress the absolute need - and i say this to you, commissioner - that each year, when the new proposal for an annual report on the protection of financial interests is presented, we should also have, if possible, the follow-up to the recommendations of the previous year, because last year my colleague, mr vaughan, presented a very interesting report and now i find myself in part repeating things that have already been raised. anyway, i think i have a little deadline later and i'll hear what my colleagues have to say.
member of the commission. - mr president, the commission will, of course, study carefully all the recommendations made in the report, as we do every year. i have already mentioned that we will continue to work on improving our reporting methods. however, let me already stress two more points in addition. firstly, we have decided that before the summer break we will take yet a further step to improve olaf’s functioning. thus, the commission will table a legislative proposal on procedural safeguards in olaf’s procedures. this proposal follows up on the communication that we presented in july last year. secondly, we will continue our fight against cigarette smuggling. in this context we will pay particular attention to the specific proposals made in the report. i would also like to respond to some issues raised during this debate. first of all, ms ayala sender raised an issue about the follow-up of this report. i just have to say that we have presented a ‘ficheʼ on the follow-up of the report. we can think about improvements to these ‘fichesʼ and we can probably use our bilateral contacts for further improvement in this area. ms macovei raised issues on statistics. i would have to say that we are continuously working with our member states in order to improve statistical information. if you compare the report for 2012 with the previous reports, you will find the statistics have improved very significantly in this report. on penalties, members will know that we have a piece of legislation on the protection of the euʼs financial interests by means of criminal law which, if adopted, will allow us to better harmonise legislation in the member states. they will vote in strasbourg on the commissionʼs proposal on penalties in the customs area, one objective of which is to align the penalty systems of the member states as much as possible in this particular area. i therefore feel we are gradually moving towards a more homogeneous approach to the penalties issue in our member states. mr mulder raised the issue of vat. i have to say that we are working very hard on the new vat system. my services are currently working on the white paper on the definitive vat regime. the commission intends to present this white paper during the mandate of this commission and it will pave the way for further reform in the area of vat. we are also doing our best to push forward the proposal on the european public prosecutor. i would like to thank this parliament, which strongly supports our efforts. i hope that we will be able to move ahead with what is, i believe, a very important proposal. of course, some compromises will be needed and we are ready to work on these compromises. ms gräßle raised the issue of the supervisory committeeʼs annual activity report. the house will be well aware that next week we will have our first interinstitutional exchange of views between the institutions and olaf, and i think this will be a good opportunity to discuss more political issues concerning the development of olafʼs work in the future. i am looking forward to this interinstitutional exchange. regarding training, i fully agree that we have to make training a top priority for olaf because it is very difficult to expect it to function effectively without well-trained staff, but i have to say that olaf already prioritises this and will continue to make it a priority. mr geier raised the issue of the importance of the revenue side. i fully agree with him that the revenue side is very important and i have to inform members that tomorrow we will have the first meeting of the own resource group created by the institutions. the revenue side will, i believe, be an important topic in this meeting. i am looking forward to progress on this matter. the report highlights a number of positive developments, but also recurrent problematic situations. this concerns first and foremost the inconsistent approach in member states’ investigations and the prosecution of fraud. parliament’s continued political support will be essential if we want to tackle these problems effectively in the future.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would just like to end by mentioning some of the figures that have been given and which are scary, because, in relation to vat, 193 billion euros are lost. it is not just fraud, that is true: the crisis, the bankruptcies, the insolvencies, have also created an additional problem. but how many youth guarantee programmes could we develop? or, in the report - and i congratulate the commission on that - the first report on the fight against corruption in the european union, which was tabled in february 2014, it is said that corruption costs the european economy 120 billion a year. imagine also how many youth guarantee programmes there are! even the fight against tobacco smuggling, which costs us 11 billion a year, would also be equivalent to at least one and a half youth guarantee programmes that we could develop. so we are faced with a major challenge. i believe that the instruments that have been put on the table are the valid ones. i also welcome and acknowledge the work of mr mulder in his approach to improving this vat reform and making it really efficient, which we must also take into account when we develop and implement it. and, of course, in conclusion, i would ask you - and i would ask especially mrs gräßle, who supported the amendment which says that a premature transition to the enhanced cooperation procedure must be avoided in relation to the implementation of the legislative acts we were talking about and which are the fundamental instruments: the european public prosecutor's office, eurojust, the anti-fraud and anti-corruption directive - that all of this be put into practice as soon as possible. we cannot come back here next year and say that things are going badly if we have asked for this to be slowed down, that it be slowed down, that the procedure for putting this legislation into effect be stopped. i'm the other way around, mr. šemeta. you know that sometimes i've been critical of you and even, i'm sorry, i've raised my voice sometimes because i'm exasperated by the tremendous slowness of the application. you've been slowly gaining cruising speed and that's why i'm now exasperated by my colleagues, who are the ones asking you to slow down. i therefore encourage him, i will support him and if, after the elections, the citizens vote for me to come back here, then of course he has my support.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, sound financial management of eu funds is of particular importance for the council. it is also very important for the public perception of actions financed from the eu budget. on 20[nbsp ]february 2014, i had the honour of presenting to the budgetary control committee the council’s recommendation on the discharge to be given to the commission for the implementation of the 2012 budget. the council recommended granting discharge to the commission and outlined the reasons leading to this recommendation. the council welcomed the european court of auditor’s clear opinion on the reliability of the annual accounts and on the court’s statement of assurance on the implementation of the budget. the council expressed its concern, however, that, according to the court’s findings, operational expenditure in 2012 was again affected by material errors and that important policy remained prone to error. the council insisted on full implementation of the court’s recommendations. it reiterated the need to seek further improvements in financial management systems and the error rate estimated by the court. we must continue to encourage all financial actors involved in the management of eu funds to assume their responsibilities in full and to strengthen further their efforts. these efforts are particularly crucial for the programmes and actions implemented under shared management. the robust administrative, supervisory and control structures are key elements in preventing errors and ensuring the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. in this context only close and efficient cooperation between the commission and member states and timely and thorough supervision will enable the necessary improvements to be made. i would like also to underline the importance of simplifications for lowering the risk of failure. as the court has rightly pointed out, all its objectives need to become much simpler and the rules must become clearer, more coherent and easier to implement. we must bear this in mind when adopting and implementing programmes for the new programming period. finally, in the report the court devoted particular attention to financial corrections and recovery mechanisms. for the council these are essential elements in the multiannual protection of the union’s financial interests. the council noted the acceleration of financial correction procedures in 2012 thanks to the considerable efforts of the commission and the member states. these efforts have to continue for the benefit of all stakeholders.
member of the commission. - mr president, over the past few months we have had intensive discussions on various aspects of eu financial management, the euro, and the responsibilities of the financial actors and the way forward. the presence of minister kourkoulas for the greek presidency demonstrates the importance that the council attaches to this procedure, as reflected in the excellent discharge recommendation adopted by the ecofin council in february. the discussions in the council and in this house were focused on the findings and observations made by the court of auditors and the estimated annual error rate dominated the discharge procedure to a large extent. however, as clearly shown in the communication on the protection of the eu budget published last september, every year a substantial amount of financial corrections and recoveries are carried out by the commission. that has yet to be put into perspective with an estimated error rate. we all recognise the urgent need to provide the discharge authority and the public at large with better information on how the courtʼs annual audits fit with the multiannual management and control systems which apply to the majority of our programmes. i am happy to inform members that the commission and the court of auditors have taken the first steps towards examining together how this issue can be effectively addressed, while fully respecting the professional independence of our external auditor. parliament’s proposal to grant discharge on the 2012 budget is a strong and encouraging sign of its trust in the commission’s capacity and willingness to improve financial management further. it also provides the commission with the legitimacy and the authority to do what is needed to improve the situation, including under shared management. parliament’s support will be needed to effectively address the main issues at stake and all financial actors must further their efforts and assume their responsibilities on this issue. we all agree that the situation under shared management, and in particular in the area of agriculture and regional policy, needs to be further improved. as i announced in my letter to the committee on budgetary control of 10[nbsp ]march, a number of measures are being implemented, as we speak, to address the problems identified during this discharge procedure. these actions include a proactive, on-the-spot audit strategy focusing on the most risky national authorities and beneficiaries. they also include limiting the net financial correction procedure for all standard cases to a maximum period of two years. the legislation for the new programme period also provides an improved framework for the financial management of programmes, such as the financial actorsʼ new accountability obligations or the reinforced preventive and corrective measures vis-à-vis underperforming national authorities. in addition, the discharge resolution gives the commission guidance for further action to be taken. i can assure this house that, with its support, our action plans will be implemented without delay. at the forefront are two main objectives. firstly, it is of the utmost importance to ensure that member states make full use of all the instruments at their disposal to prevent errors and that they properly assume their responsibilities and obligations. they should not only establish and maintain robust and reliable management and control systems, but also proactively use simplified payment schemes and adopt clear eligibility rules to reduce the risk of error. secondly, as was clearly request, the commission will strengthen its supervisory role over the member states’ authorities. through its risk-based audits the commission will check whether member states are fulfilling their obligations effectively. in this respect, interruption of payments, suspension of programmes and net financial corrections are among the commission’s strongest instruments to prevent damage to the eu budget. let me assure members that we will use them. this house has the commission’s firm commitment that weaknesses identified in the area of agriculture and regional policy will be addressed. our discussions have already resulted in concrete measures and more action will be taken once the legislative work for the new financing period has been completed. let there be no doubt that the commission fully assumes its responsibility for further reinforcing measures to protect effectively the eu budget.
president of the european court of auditors. - mr president, i would like to thank parliament for again providing the opportunity to say a few words on behalf of the court of auditors at the conclusion of the discharge procedure on the financial year 2012. i would also like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs, and in particular mr pieper and the committee on budgetary control, on their report, which has just been presented. as you know, the court found that financial management in 2012 followed the pattern of previous years in the 2007-2013 programming period. the european union accounts are reliable. but there were still too many errors or irregularities in the transactions underlying the accounts. and there is still too little information available about the results achieved through european union spending. in this context, allow me to make three brief points on specific issues. first, the court notes with satisfaction the contribution of its work to the thorough analysis of european union financial management in 2012 that parliament presents in its discharge resolution. in particular, the court welcomes the fact that the discharge resolution identifies the opportunity for the commission to foster a performance culture in european union financial management. second, the court also welcomes parliament’s call for the commission to implement effective net financial corrections on member states’ controls during the current financial framework period. this will strengthen the incentive for member states’ authorities to exercise effective control over the regularity of european union spending at beneficiary level. finally, the court notes that parliament recognises the financial pressure facing the european union budget and the need to improve the management of eu cash flows. the outstanding financial commitments and liabilities of the european union have grown considerably during the 2007-2013 programming period. in 2012 and 2013, the commission was unable to meet all payment requests. this trend is likely to continue as the multiannual financial framework from 2014 to 2020 also sets a significantly higher ceiling for commitments than for payments. the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework will provide an opportunity to address this issue. to do so effectively will require the commission to provide a long-range cash-flow forecast, as recommended by the court and endorsed by this parliament. this year the discharge procedure exemplifies once more the good cooperation between our institutions during this parliamentary period. we look forward to continuing to work with this parliament, with the commission and the council in the new parliamentary term to help ensure effective accountability to european union citizens for the public funds put at stake to achieve the european union’s objectives.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr cătălin sorin ivan, and all those who have worked on this report, which has produced a very positive result. ladies and gentlemen, a year ago i presented to you the report on the clearance of the european parliament's accounts for the financial year 2011, for which i was rapporteur, pointing out the importance of this procedure to ensure that public money, taxpayers' money, is used in an effective, efficient, transparent, responsible and optimal way. that goal is still there. it is therefore important to value the self-examination, the self-criticism, the exhaustive scrutiny of the european parliament's own accounts that it carries out every year and which therefore allows us to focus on areas where we can and must improve. in line with my own view, this institution - which represents more than 500 million citizens - must set an example in the scrupulous management of public finances. the €1.7 billion in the annual budget which parliament has for this activity must be used with all possible zeal, if possible. recall that in 2012 this process of incorporation of new members was completed, with results that did not imply a very excessive additional expenditure as was 1.9 [nbsp ]% of the budget of the parliament, which remained below the inflation rate of 2.6 [nbsp ]% for that year. in spite of all this, the text also sets out the improvements that must be made, just as the court of auditors' report shows that it is possible to be efficient, to cut services by 'up to 27% in external negotiated procedures' and also in such important matters as translation, while respecting the principle of multilingualism and the quality of services. so i keep encouraging, this is the way, and i think the citizens will recognize it.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate mr pieper on his report, because he has really managed not to insist on the famous reservations which would certainly have put the committee on budgetary control in a much more controversial position than it usually does. and that is what i mean too, mrs gräßle, that you say there has been no hearing. i have been with you at several hearings on the dalli case which were approved by the president and by this parliament. as regards the case-law we are discussing here, i also understand that there are people, especially in other phases of the discharge procedure - the president of the commission is not here, mr šemeta is here; in the case of parliament's discharge procedure i see the secretary-general, mr klaus welle - who i would also like you to identify as the persons responsible for discharge procedure, and not to use this procedure for political debates - which have already been raised - as mr pieper has tried to do with the famous reservations. i would prefer that we stick to the discharge procedure, which is usually quite delicate before an election, and therefore the more we avoid using the discharge procedure, which is quite serious, for political quarrels within our own parties and our own countries, the better. i think that cocobu and, of course, this parliament deserve it. i simply wanted to say that in the case of parliament i have tabled some amendments concerning interparliamentary delegations. i take advantage of the fact that the secretary-general is here, who is usually quite attentive to this, simply to ask that the renewal that is being done, the revision of the delegations, does not take away all the added value that we have achieved in the interparliamentary delegations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. yes, that is exactly what i meant: that i understand that the procedure is serious enough and complex enough for the citizens to use it, or for them to think that we are using it, purely for political quarrels. if mr schulz were from another country and from another group - mrs gräßle's group - he would certainly have more credibility. but, coincidentally, two months before the election, of course, the credibility... therefore, i understand that using this procedure is not the most appropriate. you're serious enough to treat him properly.
mr president, i regret that i was not present when i should have spoken on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, which does monitor expenditure and welcomes the report of the court of auditors and makes only a few comments which have to do, basically, with the management of human resources in the european external action service, particularly with the gender balance in recruitment, especially of the senior posts in the european external action service. a coherent strategy on human resources in the european external action service is also needed, as well as greater synergy between the european external action service's premises or headquarters and the diplomatic missions of the member states. but beyond that, i would like to express my concern about the future approvals of the management of the european external action service and the european union's foreign policy activity, because there are problems with payment appropriations - especially in the instrument for stability and peace - since in 2013 payment has been postponed to future years. and we are going to have a problem and more criticism from the court of auditors.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to thank the commission for the support it has given us during the legislative procedure for this report. if this cooperation prior to the tripartite dialogues continues in this direction, this report will undoubtedly be a success. i have been clear about the four main priorities since i started working on this report. first of all, transparency. the first objective we must achieve once this report is a reality is a more transparent card payment system, where consumers know at all times what they are paying when they pay with their credit cards. a second objective we are trying to achieve is to strengthen the single market and to establish the same rules of the game throughout the european union. a third objective we wanted to achieve and want to achieve with this report is to promote innovation: that companies involved in credit card payments and those payments which may arise in the future with technological progress continue to have incentives to continue investing in innovation which is, without a doubt, one of the engines of growth in the european union. the last and no less important objective is undoubtedly consumer protection. i am sure that everyone in this house, when we legislate, wants to increase consumer protection. as we know, the objective of the proposed regulation is to contribute to the development of a european union-wide payments market enabling consumers, retailers and other businesses to take full advantage of the benefits of the european union's internal market, in line with the europe 2020 strategy and the digital agenda. as rapporteur for this report, i fully share this objective. during the vote there were some sensitive issues and some of them came out ahead by a narrow margin. that is why the vote on the amendments to this report tomorrow is so important. one of these issues was the scope of application. the commission's initial proposal excludes tripartite systems and commercial cards from the application of the various provisions on exchange rate caps. after a very close vote, the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament included business cards. my view tomorrow, and this will be made known by the european people's party, which i have the honour to represent, will be to exclude business cards. on the other hand, there is article 3 on limits. during the negotiations between the rapporteurs we managed to reach an agreement to harmonise the application of the limits for cross-border and domestic transactions, setting a date which i consider to be realistic and ambitious. i think it is important to harmonize both entries, because we will thus strengthen the single market of the european union. we are taking a step forward in strengthening the single market. i hope we do it as soon as possible! i therefore ask the greek and italian presidencies to make themselves fully available to start work.
member of the commission. - mr president, your vote will take place tomorrow but commissioner barnier already wants to thank parliament for its efficient work and support for this important package in the context of the implementation of an integrated payments market. we need a modern and efficient european legal framework to respond properly to the rapid evolution in electronic payments, to promote competition and implement sustainable rules. most of the amendments tabled for the vote tomorrow provide a major contribution to the achievement of these objectives, so thank you very much for that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we can all agree that this is a major step forward which will make card payments easier, more transparent and cheaper for consumers. i would also like to thank the commissioner for her words on behalf of commissioner barnier. i have no doubt that, if the council so wishes, we will soon reach an agreement which will benefit european consumers. and let me end by thanking in particular my dear colleague and friend diogo feio, with whom it has been a pleasure and an honour to work on this report, and with whom i have no doubt that i will soon be working again.
mr president, today i am denouncing an outrage: three basque parliamentarians were unjustly convicted for obeying the law. the spanish supreme court, without hearing them, overturned two sentences that had acquitted them. the constitutional court has just denied them the amparo after waiting five years to have the majority to make this decision. both courts have been judge and jury. one of those affected, juan maría atutxa, former basque interior minister and former president of the basque parliament, has been eta's priority target for years. it didn't matter. they even tried to make him look like a collaborator of this criminal organization. justice cannot be based on lies or arbitrariness. the people affected are here today and have announced that they will appeal to the human rights court. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia.
mr president, i attended an important meeting in madrid of the anar foundation, which deals with the best interests of the child in cases of parental child abduction. europe is already concerned about this thorny issue, but it must become even more involved. and if it is so important to deal with the cases of babies stolen, how much more so is it to deal with the cases of babies stolen from their mothers after birth, which have hardly been prosecuted in countries like spain, my country. the philomena film and the book by francisco tena on stolen children have brought it up to date, as has the visit of several victims to this parliament, which must seriously help european families to find each other again, to get to know each other and, if necessary, to prosecute those responsible for so much harm. it is my last speech in this house, where i have been for ten years, but let me ask the new parliament and the new commission to speak delicately and effectively on the subject of stolen babies and their terrible consequences.
mr president, commissioner, in my last speech here i wanted to highlight some aspects of the effects of the european union's trade agreements with third countries. in latin america, for example, many of the multinationals that benefit most from these agreements are violating workers' trade union rights and human rights and are displacing communities from their own territories to carry out their agricultural megaprojects. in africa, the same patterns are repeated. when they come here, we welcome them with rubber balls - in spain - but we do not say that they are coming because we have previously moved them from their territories to install companies subsidized by the european union to obtain biofuels in order to meet our environmental standards, in my view, in a hypocritical way. we have to draw attention in this way, because these people and ngos are asking themselves what the human rights and environmental rights monitoring clauses are for. it seems to me that, at this point, more to cover up the record and the bad conscience than to be effective. that is why i am asking the commission to demand that these clauses on monitoring the respect of human rights and environmental rights be implemented, to demand it, because there are reasons for this: what is bad for a latin american people, for an african people, cannot be good for europe, even if it is good for a multinational. and i would add that latin america should be involved in the negotiations for the agreement between the united states and the european union, above all to avoid that this agreement ends up being a disaster that is harmful to our brothers and sisters in latin america. i meant it that way and i leave with the satisfaction that at least you have heard it!
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, this is the last time in my mandate that i will address parliament on this annual article 36 debate, which covers common foreign and security policy and of course common security and defence policy. so as well as looking – as the requirement is – at ‘the main aspects and basic choices’, i wanted to take the opportunity in my remarks to reflect a little on what we have achieved and built in the last four years, and perhaps say something about what we might aim for in the next mandate. i know that i cannot cover all the different aspects of foreign policy in one speech, so i am going to take my original priorities as a framework and talk about those, while reflecting too on the european council’s discussions in december on our common security and defence policy. looking back, four years ago i set three priorities: we had to establish a european external action service; we had to focus on the neighbourhood – both south and east – as the places where, if you like, european action should be judged; and our strategic partnerships. i did this because we had to create some structure to what was by definition a new and undefined role. the lisbon arrangements for external policy, as honourable members know very well, were conceived in better economic times. so my job was to turn those aspirations into reality in the midst of the worst economic crisis the eu had ever faced. the merger of three jobs into one required some strategic focus. my reasoning was to try and deal with the tasks that had been clearly defined within the treaties, and i think that together – and i do mean together because i acknowledge very much the role of this parliament – we have made some achievements. we do have a european external action service. we do have strong relationships and a clear role in our neighbourhood and we have deep political strategic relationships with key international partners. in other words, we have in place the core components for a comprehensive and coherent eu external policy. for my part, i can say that my successor will inherit a fully-functioning external action service. we have 140 delegations across the world and 1[nbsp ]800 full-time staff. all of that has been achieved by bringing together existing resources within difficult but important budgetary constraints. i confess that in an ideal world i would like to see us represented worldwide. i would want to see us bid to open new delegations, particularly in panama, in the gulf countries where we are not represented, and in mongolia, but there are other places too. i am also proud that we have reached the staffing targets that were set for the service. i was asked to create a service where we had one third of national diplomats, and that meant, of course, at least two thirds of permanent officials. i have dramatically improved the number of female heads of delegation from the frankly abysmal level i inherited. it is now one in five: 20[nbsp ]%. it is still not enough and there are still far fewer female candidates applying for jobs than their male counterparts. but when they do apply they do well. not everything is complete and there is still plenty of work for my successor to do. i made a series of recommendations in last summer’s eeas review, many of which i know were shared by parliament. i hope that some of these will be implemented in the transition to, or near to the start of, the next mandate, because the eu external service must be more than the sum total of its parts. it is a genuine asset whose professionalism and expertise is widely respected around the world and i am very proud to have played a part in establishing it. the second priority i identified was the neighbourhood, both east and south, and there is no question but that in these last four years our neighbourhood policy has been tested as never before. first, in the events that happened in what has become known as the arab spring, or arab awakening, in tunisia, egypt, libya and syria and, of course, most recently in the events in the east with ukraine. let me say something about some of these areas of work that we have been engaged in. when you think about our eastern neighbourhood, we showed the real possibilities of what eu diplomacy could do, in helping to resolve the long-standing issues between serbia and kosovo. from the beginning of this dialogue, i have facilitated 23 rounds – and a total of over 230 hours – of negotiation. i give all credit to the courageous leaders on both sides. in concrete terms, we have seen the successful holding of local elections across the whole of kosovo, and the integration of security and justice structures into the kosovo legal framework. this step forward has allowed the eu to respond by opening accession negotiations with serbia, and by launching stabilisation and association agreement negotiations with kosovo. the dialogue will become more and more a part of both parties’ integration paths. i, and the european union, remain fully committed and engaged in that process, the latest discussions on which took place only this week on monday when the prime ministers and deputy prime ministers and justice ministers came back together to finalise some of their discussions. i really hope that what has been achieved between pristina and belgrade will serve as inspiration and give momentum to others in the western balkans. it will be particularly important to help bosnia and herzegovina embark on a similar journey. on my recent visit there, that was the message i gave them. but the eastern neighbourhood has also seen the combination of economic and political challenges. we are ready very shortly to sign stabilisation and association agreements with moldova and georgia. the prospect of signing the agreement with ukraine, as everyone knows, triggered a series of events that mean that today we are facing the most tense and difficult situation in our neighbourhood since the end of the cold war. it is only four months since people took to maidan, the square in kiev, to express their disappointment at commitments made and broken by their president. i visited maidan; i met the people. many members of this house did so too. the events that have unfolded have raised challenges for the european union and its member states, i would argue, for years to come, and our first priority continues to be to work to de-escalate the situation and to call upon russia to take clear steps in that respect. we have been clear about russia’s violation of ukraineʼs sovereignty and territorial integrity. it is just unacceptable. it is a contravention of international law and russia’s own international commitments. we will not recognise the annexation of the crimea or the referendum that took place as being legitimate. honourable members will have seen that the un general assembly has also agreed on a resolution calling the moscow-backed referendum that led to this annexation illegal. together with our colleagues in member states we will continue to engage and use all diplomatic and political means to stabilise the situation, and to arrive at a negotiated way through. it is important not to underestimate our economic strength and the potential of our economic response. but in addition, i want to focus on three key issues of our response to this crisis. first, the solution is political but it is also economic. we will only succeed if we act at the same time on the needs of the short term and the objectives of the long term. the top priority is to support ukraine to be a viable economic and democratic state that can respond to the aspirations of its people. in order to support that, in my role as vice-president of the commission, i convened a meeting of commissioners and cabinets, bringing together both the president of the commission and of the council to begin drawing up a comprehensive eu response. honourable members will have seen that commissioners füle and lewandowski led a high-level visit to kiev last week as part of this overall strategy: that is to allow us to translate the promise of support into concrete practical action for urgently needed reforms after last week’s signature of the political provisions of the eu-ukraine association agreement. we very much welcome the usd[nbsp ]15 billion imf rescue package and the staff level agreement on an imf stand-by arrangement which was agreed on 27[nbsp ]march. following last tuesday’s presentation in the committee on international trade (inta), we will be able to start implementing our overall support of eur[nbsp ]1.6 billion this month, with significant disbursements, hopefully before the ukrainian presidential elections on 25[nbsp ]may. but i stress again the urgency and importance of supporting the economy of ukraine to enable it to fulfil the aspirations of its people. in the meantime, with the support of this parliament today, we will frontload, by the end of this month, the trade benefits of the agreement and temporarily remove customs duties on ukrainian exports to the eu. the second issue is about the role of the rada, the parliament, and the importance of the democratic process. i, like so many members of this house, commend the measured response shown by ukraine throughout this crisis. the rada has worked, voted, decided and led and i have sat in the rada and seen the way that parliamentarians have tried throughout to work on the issues of concern. as you will have seen, the party of the regions still exists and has chosen to be in opposition, but in my discussions with them they have pointed out that they do not oppose this democratic process that will lead to presidential elections. third, as i have made clear to our russian counterparts many, many times, our relations with our eastern partners are not exclusive: these countries must be allowed to decide their own futures, and for all of them it is about good relations with their own neighbours as well. so these three elements, as well as the response that we have to make, are the areas of work that we continue to deal with on a day-by-day basis. if i turn to the southern neighbourhood i would say that it has been no less challenging. following the arab awakening, we have played a key role in supporting tunisia on the road to a stable and democratic future. it is a real success story. it has huge potential and we will continue to work tirelessly with them on that, as we do with other nations of the region, particularly at the moment egypt, where we have a strong relationship with the people of egypt. you know the particular role that the european union has played and i have played, especially when we think of the events of last summer and my visit to the by then former president morsi. i will shortly be returning to egypt as it prepares for presidential elections. i do not have to tell honourable members what concern we felt that the court in minya in southern egypt has sentenced 529 muslim brotherhood supporters to death. i have made this perfectly clear to egyptians this week, and to the egyptian foreign minister. we call upon the interim authorities to make sure, in line with international standards, that there is a right to a fair and timely trial based on clear charges and proper and independent investigations, as well as the right of access and contact for lawyers and family members. i also take the opportunity to condemn, of course, the bombings that took place in egypt yesterday. we have sent our condolences to those who were affected. it is really important that egypt move to a stable and inclusive society that will enable it to move forward. these are the clear messages we will continue to give. again, i do not have to tell honourable members how worrying the situation is in libya, and yesterday i met with some representatives from libya who were here for the summit. the knock-on effects of the civil war are, of course, fuelling the crisis in mali. we need to try and again deliver support to the libyan authorities to allow them to cement their democracy and create a functioning state. we cannot allow terrorists to gain a foothold in that territory. that is why i will shortly be appointing a personal special envoy to engage specifically with the libyan authorities and to focus again on bringing international attention and bringing international actors together to try and support the needs of the libyan people. the situation in syria remains terrible. the failure of international cohesion has prevented serious pressure being brought to bear on assad to bring this conflict to an end. we continue to remain determined to support the work of the un. in my discussions with un secretary-general ban ki-moon yesterday we talked about the continuing importance of trying to get a political solution and we continue to support the difficult work of lakdar brahimi. i share with him the appeal for all parties to return to the negotiating table. but we must also continue to urge dialogue and highlight the deteriorating humanitarian situation. the plight of 9.3[nbsp ]million vulnerable syrians remains terrible. the risk of regional instability – in particular the impact on lebanon, jordan and iraq – and the growth of terrorist and extremist groups such as al-qaida is an ever present problem. we will carry on our work to provide humanitarian assistance. it currently stands at eur[nbsp ]2.6 billion and we will continue to press all parties to allow unhindered access for humanitarian aid. we will continue to push for that in our discussions with all countries that have something to do with this and a role to play. coming back to the priorities that i began with, i identified our strategic partners. these are the core of the work that we do. all the challenges that we face internationally when you think about peace and security, they all require us to meet them by joining forces and cooperating closely with international, regional and local partners. we are unique in foreign policy terms – i do not just say this, you can hear this said across the world – because we bring together economic, diplomatic, development, and occasionally military, assets in support of a comprehensive approach to complex crises. this approach did not exist four years ago but it exists now, and that increasingly makes us the partner of choice. foremost amongst those strategic partnerships is the one we have built with the united nations. we work closely on all major crises. it is on behalf of the un security council that i lead the e3+3 iran nuclear negotiations. honourable members will know that after the successful agreement on the geneva joint plan of action last november, implementation began on 20[nbsp ]january. we are now working towards a comprehensive and final settlement. after the weekend gymnich meeting i will travel to vienna for a further round of our talks. all relevant issues that need to be addressed in the final agreement have been put on the table and, as honourable members will know, we have experts meeting regularly to examine technical details. honourable members also know that i can say little about this process at this very delicate stage. but our strength and credibility derive from the unity that we have in the e3+3, from the support of all european member states, especially those which are directly engaged, to whom i pay tribute, as well as from the international community as a whole. this is the subject most talked about in my travels across the world, and with whom we engage so many other countries which have an interest and a stake in the outcome. i want to thank this house for its continuous support to me in the negotiations i have taken over the last three and a half years. i think too that the eu-us summit last week was an opportunity to reaffirm our strong partnership with the united states. our cooperation is unparalleled because of its depth and breadth. we work closely together across the entire spectrum of foreign policy issues, especially ukraine, afghanistan and the middle east where we continue to support the ongoing efforts by us secretary of state kerry, who was with us yesterday for the eu-us energy council which he and i jointly chair. we stand ready in the middle east to support and make an unprecedented package of support to the parties in the context of a final status agreement. i pay tribute to all member states which have worked so closely to ensure that what we will be able to offer will really and significantly make a difference. it will help in post-settlement arrangements to ensure that this can go forward for both, and this is of enormous importance. we also saw this in the last few days. the eu-china relationship was recognised in the visit by the chinese president, the first ever visit of a chinese president to the european union, and our discussions showed the importance which china attaches to developing relations with europe as part of a multipolar world. we have differences but we share many common concerns not only economically, but also as regards issues of peace and security. again, china is part of the team that i lead with the iran nuclear negotiations. after my discussions with defence secretary chang last year, we also held a joint naval exercise off the coast of somalia as part of the international efforts to combat piracy at sea. this is a really important case in point because this exercise enabled us to collaborate. it was led by operation atalanta out of northwood in the uk, and it was led by the chinese. together, we looked at ways of collaborating further on what is a successful enterprise to try and end piracy, but still an exercise that will need to be ongoing, especially when we think about the consequences not just in the horn of africa, but also with what is happening in the gulf of guinea. the other evening i held a meeting here to discuss with key african countries and our military staff how we can now support them further as they consider how to deal not only with piracy at sea, but also to collaborate again on a comprehensive approach to dealing with the causes of piracy on land. i do want to turn for a moment to our issues of security and defence because i think the situation in ukraine has cast fresh light on this. in my final report ahead of the december 2013 european council that was on security and defence i said: ‘the peace and security of europe has always been a prerequisite for its economic welfare. for the eu to live up to its role as a security provider means that european citizens and the international community need to be able to trust and rely on the european union to deliver when the situation demands. we must move from discussion to delivery.’ this was never more true. the question of how we square the circle of the spiralling cost of complex military systems with the reduction of budgets is best answered through forms of cooperation. the european commission also has its role to play: we have to reverse the trend of fragmentation and move towards consolidation and increased competitiveness of the defence equipment market. the european council, all member states, endorsed the defence cooperation. i think we now need to move further and faster. the maxim of ‘pool it or lose it’ has never been truer. we have to deliver. therefore i shall be using the upcoming defence ministerial meeting – where i will also be joined by secretary-general rasmussen of nato, as he usually joins us – to talk about how we can now best use cooperation to ensure that we are able to deliver for all member states their defence needs, in what i believe are circumstances that many will see have changed. this needs a renewed sense of urgency but we have the backing of the european council to actually help us to implement this, which is going to be extremely important. one of the elements that was specifically mentioned at that council was making csdp more effective and more efficient, and that was the comprehensive approach. mr danjean’s report correctly stresses the importance of effective coordination and coherence in external action. this is what i have been trying to do since the day i took office. in conclusion, the last year was one, i hope, of delivery for our common foreign and security policy and one where the groundwork that we have sought to lay in terms of building the service, building our relationships and building trust and credibility has begun to deliver results. it was also a year when the full potential of what we could do began to emerge. i am delighted that i will be handing over to the next high representative a service on which they can build, relationships on which they can build and the strength and support of this parliament. i thank you for it and i am sure you will offer the same level of support to the next high representative that you have offered to me.
opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - mr president, mrs ashton, i do not want to let this moment pass without congratulating you on the excellent work you have done in the sphere of the european union's foreign policy over the years. i know it hasn't been an easy year, it's been a difficult year, and i think the work has been excellent, honestly. and, as we get into the matter, this first sentence is probably obvious, but it is necessary to start by saying that security and its link with development are a key issue for the future of the union. but it is a certainty, and the responses we give - management, recovery from crises, as well as stabilisation itself and peacebuilding - must be fundamental pillars of the european union's strategy. however, and in support of the idea of more coherent and coordinated action, we must not allow the objectives of foreign policy to become dominant over the principles of development and humanitarian action, as well as their civilian character. it is therefore essential that the objective of fighting poverty remains outside the european union's external policy and that the global approach does not erode the civil character of development cooperation. i'm through, chairman. humanitarian action: we must ensure that counter-terrorism and security programmes do not undermine the capacity... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr danjean, on the thorough report he has presented to us: a report which, as the high representative said, gives us the opportunity to examine what this legislature has been, what this comprehensive vision of the common foreign and security policy is and what it should be, and, as she said, at a very particular moment in our calendar, coinciding with the deepest crisis we have ever experienced, which has logically slowed down efforts in terms of external action. following his outline, the main challenges have occurred in our immediate scenario, in our southern neighbourhood, with the crises in libya, egypt and syria and their regional and international consequences and, of course, after the vilnius summit, with the crisis in ukraine. as the rapporteur is french, i would like to quote the opinion recently expressed by a professor at the institute of political science in paris, who says that the crisis in ukraine could make the european union find the narrative and the new impetus it is looking for since the fall of the berlin wall. but to do that we need to review our energy policy in the direction of less dependence; we need to move towards greater space in the area of security and defence policy so that our soft power is complemented by a force capable of responding to a new configuration of threats; we need to work towards a review of the united nations system, in which one of the veto powers has been imposing its will, and, mrs ashton, in an area in which you have been working: that the european union, to be credible, must speak with one voice on the international scene. otherwise, we're just going to be really the organization that signs the check on the great contemporary dramas. only on this basis can we have an integrated approach in which the notions of security, defence, diplomacy, development aid, trade, culture and even civilization are linked together, complement each other, in order to respond to the new challenges and threats that are emerging globally. and only in this way, mrs ashton, can we achieve what mr danjean proposes in his report, namely a multipolar order that is fair, that is credible, that is reasonable, that makes it possible to defend the principles we hold to, namely the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states and, of course, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. before i close, mr president, i should like to acknowledge the efforts made by the high representative/vice-president of the commission in this last appearance to make european union policy more credible, more coherent and more effective in what at first seemed an absolutely impossible task. i would like to express my appreciation to you, mr president, and also my gratitude to all your colleagues for your continued willingness to engage in dialogue, a willingness which i extend not only to this member but also to my political group. my best wishes, madam high representative, for your future!
mr president, mrs ashton, in this farewell speech i would first of all wish you well, but from the critical standpoint which my group has maintained over the years and which we will continue to maintain as long as there is no change in foreign and security policy. we are facing a complete failure of this project of regional integration, which does not take into account the general interest, the workers, employment and the quality of life of the people. it's a project, therefore, failed. we need another regional integration project, one that puts people, people, back at the centre of attention. and, within this failed project, undoubtedly, maintaining a security policy subordinated to american policy does not lead us anywhere, to any situation in which it is clearly stated that the world needs to be led by a different policy, one that is committed to disarmament, to peace and to overcoming conflicts, from the point of view of prevention. boss obama came to brussels and gave us orders: increase military spending and deploy nato around russia. a total mistake.
mr president, mrs ashton, i will not insist on describing the multipolar and complex international scenario, with asymmetrical threats, with conflicts over energy, security, resources or mass migration, but i do want to stress that it is very discouraging that five years after we have equipped ourselves with the necessary instruments for this - instruments of which you are the visible head - we are stating the obvious: that in this geopolitical environment the european union must project an integrated strategy of its role in the world. it is very discouraging that it was only in december 2013 that you agreed with yourself - in your multiple capacities as high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, vice-president of the commission and president of the foreign affairs council - to tell us that we need to move forward in the coherence of the european union's external action in the areas of development, trade, energy, the environment, migration or global economic governance and other issues of global scope. then go ahead, mrs ashton, and present parliament with results instead of requests for greater consistency. you are responsible for making all these policies coherent. because it is also very discouraging that, while you say in the communication - to yourself and to the european parliament - that without development there is no security, you are committing - to support ukraine - three billion euros which will affect the budget of the european union, specifically civil crisis management and capacity building in africa. and amending budgets are already being requested in the committee on budgets. the aid to ukraine is a shared political decision, but it should not be at the expense of other policies, particularly development policy, or of mortgaging future eu budgets, for the year 2016 in particular. and a fundamental aspect which the communication focuses on is energy: the european union's foreign policy will have the opportunity to be independent and unified if there is a strategy for the diversification of energy supplies and an infrastructure which allows for a wider use of renewable energy sources, but also of indigenous sources and resources...
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr danjean on his report and thank mrs ashton for her efforts over the years. we are in a global, interconnected, interdependent world. we need to have, the union needs to have, more coherent and effective external action and this increasingly requires that we have one voice and one direction. consistency must be ensured by your double, or triple, hat, mrs ashton. the european union, for many reasons, interests and values, geographical location, characteristics of its economy and trade, its energy dependence, historical and social links, requires a stable and peaceful world, to which we must contribute by cooperating closely with the united nations and other partners, among whom i would highlight the united states. the first area of concern should of course be our complex neighbourhood, where the effectiveness of our action has been tested. given the variety and complexity of challenges and crises, our approach to external action must be comprehensive. crises require comprehensive responses, in which there must be ingredients not just political, economic, cooperative, humanitarian or food. we often need security elements, military elements too, as we have seen in libya or mali recently. ladies and gentlemen, history is not over, nor have conflicts involving military means disappeared. we have just seen this in the unfortunate case of crimea. we must therefore look more closely at the security and defence aspects.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr[nbsp ]president, i would like to thank everyone who has taken the trouble to participate in this debate. can i begin by again thanking mr danjean very much for his report. it is extremely important that this debate continues. i want to just pick up a few of the comments that have been made, beginning with this concept of a comprehensive approach, because i agree that if it becomes simply a catchword, it is waste of time. i recall that when i started four and a half years ago, that actually, in this city alone, it was practically impossible to bring together people working on the same geographical area or indeed, i would argue, on the same set of issues. people did not know each other. they had never met. the institutional framework provided opportunities for people to develop their individual approach or their institutional approach, but not a european union approach. if you add into that the work going on in the member states, you can imagine the fragmentation that existed. so this approach was specifically designed to try to make sure that, in using our resources, we used them properly and well to bring together the work that we did, and to have a greater and better impact on the range of challenges. the horn of africa is often cited as the best example of that, and it is. if you speak to the somali president or the foreign minister, and you speak to the people running the atalanta military missions, to the colleagues working on development, to the african union or to our international partners, they will all tell you that we have come a long way since the days when it was impossible to work out which bit of the union was operating at any one time. but i would be the first to tell you that it is the beginning and not the end. there is much, much more to be done to consolidate and develop this approach and bring the instruments together. i have to tell you that, without the support of parliament, it is not by any means a guaranteed approach. i also want to say that i agree with those who talked about security and development going together. if you had sat, as i did, with many of the members from the african union nations, who have been in brussels for the summit, they will all tell you from their own experiences that unless you have security, you cannot do development. they have to go hand in hand. that means thinking more creatively and, in a sense, more strategically, about what it is we are trying to do. you can pour money into a problem. that is easy. we can throw money at it, but if you do not get the results, it is a waste of time and resources. so you have to think about how elements of our strategy interact with each other. i think that is going to be even more important in the future. a number of colleagues talked about energy, and it also applies there. when we were holding the us-eu energy council, which secretary of state kerry and i chair, we were making exactly the same points that have been made in this debate: the need member states to work more closely together in an interconnected way and to think about energy supply, energy diversity, diversification in the context of climate change and environmental needs, and the impact that can be made by member states not being reliant on individual sources of energy. energy policy is also about foreign policy, because we get our energy from many countries, some of which are going through extremely difficult times. the supply of sweet oil from libya, which is used by some countries for certain parts of their work for which they need oil supplies, was badly disrupted. the only other source of that same supply is nigeria, which itself has challenges and difficulties. so there are many ways in which we need to think about energy policy in the context of our foreign policy. just think of the north of iraq as another example of that. when we think about our neighbourhood, we know that we have had dramatic change and that countries are still hugely at risk from what could happen. nowhere is that more true than in libya. libya is going through terrible difficulties and actually one of the problems, in terms of the structure of libya and how they are trying to develop their institutional framework, is that it is very difficult to support libya in the ways that we normally do – by which i mean trying to find the people who are in the right place, with the right authority to do things. that means we have to rethink, to some extent, in a creative way, both how we collaborate with the libyan people and the libyan authorities, and how we work together internationally. that is exactly what we are doing now and it is why i am appointing a personal envoy to do that, because it has proved incredibly challenging. in terms of the point that was made about the budgets, the future and the question about humanitarian aid and the instrument for stability, i come back to my point about comprehensiveness. the point about the instrument for stability is that it is designed to try to create stability. if you do not have stability and countries collapse, then you have a greater need for humanitarian aid. so these are not in competition with each other and should not be. i will be the first to support kristalina georgieva in the magnificent work she has done to try to get humanitarian aid and support for those in greatest need. nowhere is that more evident than in syria today. but we also need to have support from this parliament to ensure what we do have, that can help create stability, or maintain stability, is able to be put to good use. i hope that this will be taken into account in the committee on budgets. on defence, there are some members of this house who i will never convince on aspects of defence, so let me just say two or three things. we are not in competition with nato. i attend meetings of the foreign ministers and defence ministers of nato. we work closely with nato to do two or three things. one is that our membership is slightly different, so there are ways in which we can engage countries to enable us to think more strategically about defence and security matters. secondly, there are times when nato would not wish to be in the front line because of its very specific role, and here it can look to the european union to help fulfil obligations. the central african republic initiative will be launched this week. there are places where it is better to have an eu presence than a nato presence. that is not me saying that. that is what nato would say. thirdly, there is work to be done in support of what nato does and what we do. when i think about the lessons we have learned in these last three or four years about the way in which we need collaboration, this is not about loss of sovereignty, but about collaboration to ensure that we have the assets that are going to be needed in times of conflict – times that are changing and yet seem now to remain the same. so they are different, but they are complementary. one of the most important elements of this is complementarity. i may not convince everybody, but that is what the purpose of all this has been. we are not weakening nato. our purpose is to strengthen all that we do on defence. i think this going to be an important part of the defence ministers’ meeting which i will chair the week after next, but also in the build-up to the nato summit which will take place in wales in september. i also agree with what has been said about moldova, and i would mention georgia. it is very important that we get these agreements in place for them. i also agree about bosnia herzegovina, because i have spent a lot of time talking with political leaders in bosnia herzegovina to develop a broader approach and a growth and jobs compact for them, as they are looking at record levels of unemployment. it was 38% – and over 50% for young people – when i was last there a couple of weeks ago. that brings me to the point made about employment and workers. one of the biggest challenges we face in our neighbourhood is the number of young people. think about the communities that we are working with, where there are huge numbers of young people who want a future and are looking for good educational opportunities, employment prospects, and the future development of their lives. they are now more and more interconnected with each other and, unless we have good and strong policies to support those young people across our neighbourhood, i think our societies are going to find it much tougher to be able to develop in the way that we would wish, with peace and security at the heart of them. for those who are worried about how many people are in the service, i have checked. twenty-one per cent of posts as officials in the external action service are held by people from member states who joined after 2004 and, at higher levels, it is 23%, which is more than the population percentage of those countries. i am not saying that i am complacent about that, but actually the record is pretty good. let me finish by making a couple of points that i think are really important. at the heart of everything that we do, we have to keep the values that we hold dear. if we do not do that, we will have failed. the promotion of democracy, respect for all individuals and the right of people to have their voices heard is a fundamental and crucial element of what all the nations that have become part of the european union stand for and of the aspirations of so many people who see the eu as a valuable force for the future. the treaty gives this position certain powers. it does not give it powers to do things that i sometimes hear members of this parliament suggest that we should do. it is an intergovernmental foreign affairs council. it is an intergovernmental process at one level, linked to a community method and developing and strengthening what that means for the roles that can be played, not just by an individual, but by a service and an approach that has been part of a treaty. it is work in progress, with a long way to go. i hope that, as this develops, you will see the potential for what it can be, supported by all member states, because they are crucial – and i am very proud of the support i get from the foreign affairs council and from the member states – but also linked to the aspirations of what this could be. this is not about loss. this is about gain. every member state participating in the eu process gains from it. they are able to better project their power and their strength. it is true for the one that i know best; it is true for every single one represented here. i wish you good luck and all the best for the future. for myself, the first thing i will wish for will be a holiday. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on iran (2014/2625 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i am sorry that mrs ashton is not taking part in the debate - i am sorry because this is one of the successes of mrs ashton and of european diplomacy - and i thank the greek presidency for the information it has given us. this parliament wants to be informed as much as possible about the progress of the vienna negotiations and has a number of recommendations which we hope will be heard. we believe that the combination of the twofold reform process in iran under the new president rouhani and the achievement of an agreement in principle on nuclear matters, which has meant the initial lifting of sanctions, opens up a window of opportunity to begin to build relations with iran that go beyond the strictly nuclear issue. and i am referring to the necessary dialogue on human rights, because the human rights situation in iran is clearly improving, especially with regard to the death penalty, political freedoms, the rights of religious minorities, particularly the baha'i minority, and the rights of other minorities, such as homosexuals, transsexuals, etc. and i am also referring to the opening up of other areas of cooperation with civil society or in the field of drug trafficking or in the field of the environment. these new areas of cooperation would be perfectly culminated by the opening, if the negotiations are successful, of a european union delegation in tehran. and finally, it is also an opportunity to value and foster and facilitate iran's regional role in conflict resolution in a turbulent region. if it moves forward in vienna, the european union should advocate that iran sit in geneva. my first speech in this parliament was on iran, my last speech is also on iran. i'm glad we're making some headway. i think the european union is on the right track, it is doing well, and let's hope it stays that way, and that they stay on the right track too and that iran and the new presidency commit themselves to this process of reform that can bring this country back into the international community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the progress made towards the demilitarisation of iran's nuclear programme and the important role played by europe in this process. we hope that the process will be successful, for the sake of stability in the region and the world. however, it would be appropriate for the union to also promote denuclearisation initiatives throughout the region, taking into account that several countries in the region possess nuclear arsenals and are outside the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. we must be firm with iran, but also with its neighbours. human rights is another big problem in iran. the union must maintain a firm position in defence of human rights in iran and, above all, of the most fundamental of rights: the right to life. the increase in the number of people who have been sentenced to death is truly alarming. the firm defence of human rights must be the litmus test of any union policy towards iran. finally, i would like to stress one aspect on which i think the motion should have been more explicit. the importance of defending and protecting the collective rights of ethnic, cultural, linguistic or religious minorities such as the kurds, baluchis or christians should have been more clearly emphasized.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, the european union and the high representative, catherine ashton, remain firmly committed to a comprehensive and final settlement to the iranian nuclear issue. of course, many complex discussions still lie ahead, but all the issues have been put on the table and the momentum is there on both sides. if a satisfactory solution to the nuclear issue can be found, this would open new possibilities. we will, of course, continue to raise our serious concerns about the human rights situation in iran. let me now turn to some specific issues that were raised by members. first of all, some members raised the issue of the camp hurriya, camp ashraf and the mek. i[nbsp ]would just like to remind you that the european union is in close cooperation with the un in iraq with regard to the mek and has considerably supported efforts to resolve this issue. apart from being the largest single contributor to the un agencies currently working with the camp residents, we are trying to find a durable solution to this serious problem. many members raised the issue of the opening of the delegation. we are well aware of parliament’s recommendation. we hope that we will be able to go ahead with the delegation as soon as conditions are right and both sides agree on the usefulness of taking such a step. in the meantime, member states’ embassies are representing the european union, and for the last three semesters the european union has been represented by the greek embassy. mr stadler raised the issue of the death penalty. i must reconfirm that the european union policy against the death penalty is valid towards all states and all countries, including our close partner and ally, the united states. i would also like to thank parliament for supporting this process. all recommendations will, of course, be heard by the council and by the high representative.
the debate is closed by a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on international trade on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishing a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items (18086/1/2013 - c7-0093/2014 - 2011/0310(cod)) (rapporteur: christofer fjellner) (a7-0236/2014).
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr fjellner, for his constructive approach to this proposal and all the efforts deployed to find an agreement on these substantive and complex issues. it is indeed important that this file is concluded before the end of this legislature. as you will know, adoption of this legislative proposal is all the more urgent for economic reasons, as companies across europe have called on the eu to ensure rapid updates to our control lists so as to ensure a level playing field with companies from other third countries. before the lisbon treaty, a different decision-making procedure was used, with the result that updates were available earlier. however, the result of this rather long exchange is a wealth of ideas about how we can adjust the wider eu policy on dual-use goods. updating the list is also important to ensure that export controls focus on the most sensitive items and continue to contribute effectively to international security as well as to the eu’s security. as technology improves, particularly in the military domain, we can afford to desensitise carefully identified goods to ease their trade across borders. i am conscious that during this legislative procedure the honourable members have tabled various amendments that touch on the important issues pertaining to the overall eu export control system, its effectiveness, its contribution to our competitiveness and our security, as well as the global protection of fundamental rights. i am therefore particularly satisfied that extensive discussions took place between the three institutions and that an agreement could be found. i am confident that the ongoing review of the eu system will provide an opportunity to address these important issues. in this respect i am happy to inform you that a commission communication will be adopted shortly, before the end of the month of april. the communication will set out options for addressing the various issues raised by this parliament and by other stakeholders in order to modernise the export control system and strike the right balance between security and competitiveness. we must be able to respond to new challenges, such as the export of cyber tools and internet surveillance systems that could be used in violation of human rights. the forthcoming legislature should expect to provide a political appreciation of the future of eu export controls policy very soon after july and this will probably be one of the few cases where, for understandable policy reasons, we control exports rather than keeping the markets open. goods with sometimes life-saving civilian applications, as in health research, must not threaten human lives if used instead and inappropriately for military purposes. i am therefore confident that this file will keep our respective institutions very politically engaged.
mr leichtfried, because the ppe group is not on the list, you were first. normally the ppe is first, and that was the reason for my confusion. for the socialists and democrats, you have two minutes.
that was a good end to this debate for you, commissioner! se cierra el debate. la votación tendrá lugar hoy a las 11.30 horas. declaraciones por escrito (artículo 149 del reglamento)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european telecommunications market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies, and that the commission is not obliged to take any action to ensure that the new technologies are not used in the same way as the old ones. this is what you're going to understand today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to ensure that the resources from the european social fund are effectively used to improve the situation of older workers. this report points to the need for financial and economic control instruments in the implementation of projects financed by the european social fund. such control instruments are necessary to ensure that the definition of 'older workers' is adapted to the minimum retirement age in each of the member states of the union. i have decided to vote in favour of this report to improve access to european social fund resources for retired workers in the eu.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it strengthens the role of the mass media as instruments for the promotion of the 'values' of the eu's foreign policy. the report understands the foreign policy of the european union as a monolithic bloc and does not express that a large part of the population rejects the policies of eu imperialism. the report proposes to create a tool to attack free trade and to try to finance destabilisation by manipulating information in countries which are not allies or subjects of the european union. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - the aim of this proposal is to ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment and to safeguard the internal market in motor vehicles with regard to their noise level. to this end, member states should harmonise their legislation as regards the permissible sound level of motor vehicles, including the different technical requirements. this will not only ensure uniform application but also set clear conditions for manufacturers. this report provides for the application of a set of limit values according to the vehicle category over three phases and requires the manufacturer to provide information on the noise levels of vehicles at the point of sale and in technical promotional material. it requires the installation of appropriate warning systems to protect the blind and other vulnerable persons. finally, pay particular attention to the characteristics of the road surface, as these are directly related to the noise level of vehicles.
in writing. - half of the union population in urban areas is exposed to noise levels above 55 db(a) as a result of ambient road noise. constant exposure to traffic noise increases the risk of cardiovascular diseases and high blood pressure. the proposal represented much needed policy to tackle noise at source. both the rapporteur and members of the committee took a position to weaken the commission original proposal, going below even the current requirements, introducing countless loopholes and derogations. finally, even though approaching vehicle audible systems or avas for electric vehicles, a fundamental security tool for people with visual impairment, will be compulsory, the report does not fulfil the minimum objectives for such a proposal.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it grossly underestimates the seriousness of the problem of traffic noise in many areas of europe. thousands of people suffer from health problems in many areas of heavy traffic in the european union. the original proposal of the european commission was much more ambitious and included noise levels much lower than the limits contained in the current proposal. in addition, important articles introducing measures on the classification of eu roads according to the noise they produce, the labelling of the noise level produced by vehicles, etc. have been deleted. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it does not include a responsible and verifiable check that the meat sold does not come from genetically cloned animals or their descendants. this report proposes a database for the monitoring of bovine stocks in the different member states of the european union which does not explicitly exclude this type of animals, introducing the potential risks associated with the set of databases. the control of meat from cloned animals has been a priority issue that has not been taken into account by the other european institutions. the european commission and the council have refused to identify animals that may pose unknown health risks. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains a reference to the creation of tools to defend the european market from trade retaliation which may be useful, it recognises the role and legitimacy of the world trade organisation, recognising it as a motor of development. as we see every day, international trade is the cause of the underdevelopment of many regions of the world, and there is no type of trade that is not based exclusively on market principles. although it is changing, as this report claims, trade remains the main source of the planet's economic, social and environmental problems. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it introduces a series of democratic controls by the european parliament on the negotiations carried out by the commission by means of delegated acts under articles 290 and 291 of the tfeu. in addition, the report has succeeded in introducing into the tripartite negotiations with the commission and the council the reference to the rights of workers affected by this trade flow between the european union and bangladesh, including the international labour conventions, making it clear that the european union must ensure the implementation of these. although international trade is still not a driver of development, this report introduces ways of democratic control and respect for workers' rights. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - this draft regulation aims to increase the protection of public health and safety by measures such as the removal of barriers in the internal market or the improvement of transparency in relation to the information received by patients. this is to be achieved by clarifying the scope of the legislation and establishing clear obligations for manufacturers, by making the requirements more stringent and by adapting the risk classification and the advisory procedure, and by measures to improve transparency and access. all these actions are therefore aimed at tightening up the provisions to ensure the highest levels of public health and safety.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a considerable advance in the protection of the european consumer, by proposing a control regulation against market laws which only seek to increase the profits of the pharmaceutical companies. the report defines the term medical devices as all types of devices used in the diagnosis, prevention, monitoring or treatment of diseases. the regulation of such instruments is much better set out in this proposal, avoiding the bad practices of the pharmaceutical industry by improving labelling, monitoring by control agencies, etc. this report improves on the original proposal, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. - in favour. implantable devices are not like medicines: when a serious incident occurs, it is not possible to just stop the treatment – the patient has to be operated on again. the recent scandals with faulty breast implants, hip replacements and other devices have underlined serious flaws with eu legislation on medical devices. the greens/efa supported the rapporteur, who pushed for a pre-market approval, but epp, alde and ecr were strictly against. faced with this political reality, we supported the stronger controls so as to have better evaluation of high-risk devices before they are put on the market. we succeeded in getting our proposal, that innovative high-risk devices should always be assessed against the existing reference treatment, adopted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the legislation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices which will make it possible to put an end to the inconsistency between the different national regulations in the european union. the report develops a classification of these types of products according to the risks they pose to the user and to public health, allowing for appropriate treatment for each type of product. this report includes improved transparency on potential uses, protection of minors and people with disabilities, exemption from the rules for products for home use, etc. all these principles constitute a report which improves the protection of users of such products and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a breakthrough in environmental accounting of the economies of the member states of the european union. the report covers the development of new accounting in relation to the existing accounting system, which only covers air pollution, environmental taxes and material flows. the report proposes to include the environmental expenditure of states, the amount of all environmental goods and services produced by the economy and the energy flows of the state in question (energy input, consumption, etc.). this proposal will improve knowledge of the environmental impact of the member states' economies, which is absolutely necessary for the establishment of clear policy objectives in this area. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the aim of this proposal is to establish 2015 as the european year of development, given that the eu is the largest donor of official development assistance worldwide. its strong commitment to supporting countries dates back to 1957, when the treaty of rome first established a european development policy. however, european citizens are often uninformed about these issues and are unaware of the added value these development policies bring to society. the european year of development therefore represents an opportunity to solve this problem by improving the level of information on european development policies in all member states.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although the impetus it can give to the european union's development policy is important, it has been decaffeinated and, once again, does not tackle the main problems of development policy. the report includes points on which there is no disagreement - in my view - such as the promotion of the fight against gender discrimination, the approach to decentralised aid, support for young people, etc. however, a development policy isolated from the political and economic problems produced by the eu's neo-colonial policy means continuing to throw sand into the sea. development means fighting the causes of underdevelopment that are in the present capitalist world system. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - development and the aspects of development cooperation have changed radically in recent decades. if we take 2015 as a reference point, the year in which the so-called millennium development goals were supposed to have been achieved, it is clear how important the european union considers the coming year to be. the main and largest donor of official development aid in the world can only strengthen through concrete policies the commitment that we can even find in the founding treaties of rome, and to which the last treaty of lisbon only gives full continuity by implementing actions such as the establishment of this very necessary year.
in writing. - the debris of spacecraft, satellites and similar objects in earth orbit poses a safety risk to new satellites and orbital devices such as communications satellites. this question is critical today because of the importance of satellites in social and economic life. having a monitoring system in place that can help minimise the risk of collision and damage or destruction of satellites is of great importance. the report is moving in that direction.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although the monitoring of 'space junk' is indeed a very important issue, there are more important political priorities for which no resources are allocated. the monitoring and tracking of such space objects is essential to enable the continued use of all technologies related to the services that satellites can provide. without a comprehensive space control, such technologies are subject to high risk and could suffer periodic incidents that further worsen the situation. however, this programme, although necessary, seeks to protect the investments of private technology groups, while european citizens are denied access to public resources through austerity policies. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, although it contains measures which will benefit farmers and livestock farmers in the event of any health problems affecting their production, it is a guarantee that european agribusiness will take advantage of it to ensure their production with cap funds. the report also proposes the use of the flexibility mechanism for financing agricultural health crises, legitimising the instruments developed for the economic governance of the european union. that is why i could not vote in favour, even though the report proposes crisis aid measures for farmers and livestock farmers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it sets strict criteria for the importation of wood products into the european union. the report reinforces the forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) licensing system established by council regulation (ec) no 2173/2005. this regulation did not apply to all wood products irrespective of their origin, but only to those for which a voluntary cooperation agreement exists, allowing circumvention of those requirements when such products are imported from third countries with which such voluntary agreements do not exist. the report proposes that all timber products imported into the eu should comply with this legislation, causing a real impact on imports from this sector. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in favour. formal approval of the partner countryʼs licensing scheme is perhaps the most important act in implementing the euʼs flegt policy. it has to be ensured that only certified timber enters the eu market. the greens therefore suggested that this be done by a delegated act, which gives parliament also a right to veto. however, this idea was dismissed by parliamentʼs legal department as not admissible, given that approval of a licensing scheme does not alter the basic flegt act. the greens then welcomed the council proposal to have the ‘silent procedureʼ of the implementing act reversed for the approval of the licensing scheme. that means that if the council does not establish a position, the commission cannot approve the proposal for an implementing act. however, this option has been dismissed in trilogues since parliament insisted that the council should not have its powers increased where parliament has no say at all. reversal of the ‘silent procedureʼ is moreover not provided for in the implementing act procedure. since the council did not insist, the greens could not come out in favour of a procedure grossly altering the balance of powers between the two legislators.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case it approves the management of the said agency, and as i do not agree with it i have not voted in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision but for the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the regulation of clinical trials in the european union, so that this type of testing of medicinal products for human use can be carried out more transparently. this report introduces the view that clinical trials of this type of medicinal product cannot be considered as a trade secret, since they concern human health. the report also calls for the creation of a european database containing all information on such clinical trials. this report promotes transparency, ending the obscurantism that prevails in the activities of pharmaceutical companies. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. - in favour. we concentrated our work on transparency and the role of the ethics committee. there was a huge campaign from civil society for transparency of clinical trial data. on the other hand, the pharmaceutical industry wanted to subject such data to their very far-ranging understanding of what would be commercially confidential. we not only called strongly for the clinical study report to be uploaded into the eu database, but were also the driving force behind ensuring also that the law explicitly specifies that clinical study reports should not be considered commercially confidential. this would not have happened without us, this is a clear victory for us. we were also keen to re-introduce an ethics committee, and requiring a positive opinion by them to allow a trial to go ahead.
in writing. - the ultimate objective of such trials is to concentrate resources and efforts in a highly efficient manner on the development of special treatments for the so-called rare diseases, which require so much attention. this standard will facilitate cross-border cooperation to carry out such larger, more viable and reliable clinical trials. in addition, transparency in this area will be increased by publishing such trials in a public database to be set up on an ad hoc basis. all this will simplify existing procedures by establishing a uniform framework in all member states with the corresponding sanctions for those responsible, both researchers and pharmaceutical companies, who do not comply with the regulation adopted here.
in writing. - i think it was a missed opportunity to establish a stricter and more transparent control of nuclear installations. moreover, parliament has not had the capacity to take part in the decision-making process on this text, as on all the texts dealing with the nuclear issue, and has only been consulted. the commission's text, which is not very forceful, is accompanied by the contemporary spirit of the author of the report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains many points seeking to tighten legislation to improve the safety of european nuclear installations, it continues to regard this type of energy as a necessary source for the eu's energy production. the report is aimed at improving safety conditions in european power stations by delegating to the european commission the task of reviewing these new safety standards. the report envisages the opening of new nuclear plants. we believe that nuclear power production has too costly externalities and too high risks to be profitable without incurring the costs to the public administration and the environmental threats to the nearby inhabitants. that is why, despite improving the safety of power stations, i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - against. the proposed legislation regrettably represents very little improvement on the current situation as regards safety of nuclear installations. yet pro-nuclear member states will use this legislation to pretend that safety of nuclear power plants is dealt with under this legislation. we will however push for improvements. although we did not succeed in changing the legal basis (parliament is therefore merely consulted under the euratom treaty), it is key to continue to push for more transparency and participation in the decision-making process by the public and by civil society (in particular through the aarhus and espoo conventions). as it stands now, the jordan report limits public participation to some information but no access to any real decision-making/peer review processes (weakening the commissionʼs original text). priority should be given to nuclear safety.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because i consider it to be one of the most important issues in fiscal policy in the european union and, despite introducing positive changes, it delays its implementation until the end of 2016. the report introduces important changes, such as a new mandatory element and the fight against undertaxation, which are fundamental, when most large european companies are taxed at outrageous rates thanks to the tax engineering allowed by the laws of the member states. however, the report does not point to the need to implement such measures urgently, at a time when multi-billion dollar profits are barely taxed while states go bankrupt due to lack of revenue. delaying action means continuing to allow this looting of public coffers. i have therefore been unable to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it supports the european union's internal security strategy, as well as frontex and eurosur. for me, as for my whole group in this parliament, these agencies are part of an institutional framework aimed at persecuting migration, in violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms of human beings. the report points to the effects of the economic crisis, but not to the austerity policies which are decimating public resources in the member states. the committee also calls for a report on the human rights situation in immigration detention centres, without calling for their closure, the closure of these prisons for people who have committed no crime, only migration. i have decided to vote against this report because it implicitly takes over the eu's migration policy.
in writing. - we have not achieved our objective of having the european emissions trading system take account of extra-community flights and limit it to intra-community flights only. it's being delayed until 2017. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it clearly limits the application of the emission allowances of european airlines, so that they can account for greenhouse gas emissions well below their actual levels of emissions. the air transport sector is one of the world's leading polluters, accounting for 3[nbsp]% of global emissions, and its emissions have doubled between 1990 and 2006. this report provides an exemption for european airlines from accounting for all these emissions, leaving out all flights from or to third countries outside the european economic area. this is a clear falsification of the emission levels. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - i agree that the application of the european aviation emissions trading system should not be suspended until the conclusion of the icao negotiations, but i do not support that it should apply only to intra-community flights, while flights to or from countries outside the eu are excluded until 2017. the eu must believe in the policies it develops, and suspending the implementation of the system depending on the opinion of other international actors is not a sign of trust or respect for democratically approved decisions. i would also like the commission to ensure that the funds raised are used properly and to reduce the discretion enjoyed by the member states. i regret that the interinstitutional agreement suspends the application of the eu ets. the commitment will also require member states to report on how they invest the profits they make from auctioning allowances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is essential that there should be convergence in the sector; the fees charged for the use of the different types of bank cards cause considerable uncertainty for european users because of the discretionary powers exercised by each member state of the european union. each year the sector receives 9[nbsp ] billion euros from the payment of such fees, which is a significant volume of business extracted through all kinds of practices, many of them abusive, in a context of international financial crisis. this proposal improves the rules by preventing abusive practices carried out by different companies in the sector against users. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the defence of the european consumer has been supported again by the european parliament through this project, which guarantees that a truly recognised means of payment, like any type of transaction carried out by credit or debit cards, does not entail an additional cost, often unknown and more often different, depending on the place where it is carried out. margins and commissions will be set up so that the spirit of the internal market is also operational in these transactions. in this context, legislation on banking commissions proper is still pending. this legislation will give consumers greater freedom when making payments and will improve the security of all payments made electronically via the internet.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it introduces a number of technical developments which need to be regulated, since the directive regulating payment services in the internal market is from 2007 (directive 2007/64/ec), and there have been numerous technological changes since that date which have transformed the market. card payments, mobile payments, etc. are still regulated differently in each member state. the report proposes a relative harmonisation of the operation of this type of payment service in the european union in order to seek better protection and consumer confidence in this type of payment service in the internal market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the new technologies require innovation, including legislative and regulatory innovation, to prevent new frontiers from arising in a contradictory manner between potential consumers in the different member states. this will provide a secure legal framework for the user of services within the community, with all the security guarantees, both with regard to own information and to any additional costs generated in a random way. the aim of this directive is to establish in an unambiguous way how such payments are to be made.
in writing. - the internal market in electronic communications is at the heart of the digital economy. the role of telecommunications as a vehicle for innovation and connectivity should therefore be promoted, so that europe can fully exploit the opportunities for growth, competitiveness and employment that the digital internal market will offer. the european commission has therefore proposed to revise the main laws applicable to the telecommunications sector. this report, led by my colleague pilar del castillo, calls for the final abolition of retail invoicing for voice, sms and data roaming charges. it advocates internet accessibility for all, hence service providers should not only meet the basic needs of users, but should also be able to tailor their offer to more specific needs. due to their high importance, it also addresses the issue of conditions and procedures for the allocation of radio spectrum for wireless broadband communications, as well as the use of the parts of the spectrum that are not reserved.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although i consider it essential that there should be clear rules in the european union governing the electronic communications sector, it is a firm commitment to deregulation. the report introduces key issues to close the technological gap between the different european regions in terms of infrastructure. it also introduces a wide range of measures aimed at improving the functioning of the sector. however, all these measures reflect a neoliberal approach according to which public administrations must bear the costs of infrastructure, but the private sector is the one that enjoys the social gains. that is why, despite the improvement of the existing rules, i could not vote in favour.
in writing. - in order to further strengthen and promote one of the founding pillars of the european union, the single market, this regulation aims to facilitate the practical exercise of the right of providers of electronic communications services and networks to provide services through a harmonised and simplified notification system based on a harmonised model. it also seeks to facilitate the practical exercise of the right of citizens and businesses to access competitive, secure and reliable electronic communications services, with common rules ensuring a high level of protection, privacy and security of their personal data, and to achieve a more coordinated framework for the use of harmonised radio spectrum at union level for wireless broadband communications services. finally, it provides for the gradual abolition of unjustified roaming surcharges for communications within the union.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the regulation ending roaming charges in 2015 and including a definition that safeguards the principle of net neutrality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a necessary measure to combat consumer distrust caused by the high number of abusive practices linked to the use of personal data relating to electronic identification. the report includes a proposal for a regulation which aims to close all loopholes in european legislation in this area, thus providing users of this type of electronic transactions with a much safer and more trustworthy framework. in a context of increasing levels of electronic transactions, it is necessary to address their regulation in a way that eliminates or minimises bad practices. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it is a proposal which goes in this direction.
in writing. - new technologies require a regulatory framework based on trust so that users can carry out any type of transaction electronically, knowing that they are interacting efficiently but, above all, covered by a regulation applicable to all member states that completely eliminates the feeling of legal uncertainty that the citizen currently perceives. electronic authentication or identification systems have to be based on the procedure that provides the most guarantees to the user, so the cross-border use of data should be regulated, as we are currently faced with very different levels of data permeability. this regulation will apply to both natural and legal persons, such as smes, which will be particularly helped by it. electronic signatures, seals and other similar systems will be in stable use if the regulatory framework is truly established in a formal, serious and applicable manner.
in writing. - the 2008 financial crisis put the proper functioning of the european audit regime for public-interest entities to the test. the causes are certainly many and must be sought in some shortcomings, such as insufficient supervision and the lack of adequate regulatory safeguards. tools and procedures should therefore be identified to improve the quality of audit services and competition in the market, in order to achieve a balance between costs and benefits for firms facing a difficult economic situation and users of audit services.
in writing. - i think the reform is manifestly insufficient. that is why the socialists tabled amendments to ensure that there is a rotation within a reasonable period (10 years, extendable to 14 years) and not every 24 years, as the report proposes. we also believe that the list of prohibited services is too lax and will be monitored by the audited company through its audit committee. we still have a financial and stock exchange system with muddy feet if the information on the accounting status of companies is not of quality. finally, auditors should concentrate on their audit activity. allowing, as the report does, up to 70%[nbsp ] of consultancy services to be invoiced to the audited firm itself, makes the audit a subsidiary activity for the consultant auditor and jeopardises his independence. in spain we have too many examples of the disastrous results for the economy and the taxpayer of the lack of quality in the audits. do you know the bankia case? do you know that 90% of the audits of the spanish banking system are carried out by a single auditor, deloitte, with the consequent systemic risk and the vices and the arrogance that monopoly or oligopoly entails?
in writing. - i voted against this report because it does not represent a real improvement in the requirements for statutory audits in public interest entities. the onset of the financial crisis pointed to how many of the entities operating in the financial sector had evaded their responsibilities, thanks to weak regulations that allowed free will without sufficient, or independent, supervisory bodies. this report is presented as a report which seeks to improve the requirements of statutory audits for public interest entities, such as savings banks, credit cooperatives, etc., which, in spain, have played a central role in the collapse of the financial sector. however, the report does not even require a genuine independence of the audits which can continue to audit a single client, a fundamental requirement to ensure the independence of the auditors. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it does not represent a real improvement in the requirements for statutory audits, but an increase in the turnover of the large multinationals which dominate the sector. the private audit sector has gradually replaced public bodies that monitor the accounts of companies and its operation has become one of the clear culprits in the massive financial frauds that triggered the economic crisis we are facing today. the report includes numerous amendments to the audit rules which introduce easily avoidable limitations and do not fundamentally change the functioning of a sector which has allowed the massive fraud of entire banking sectors in the eu. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is an obscene acknowledgement of a fascist coup d'état, which was largely promoted by the european union and the united states themselves. this report makes it clear that the eu's only interest in ukraine is economic, and as long as the new government, like this fascist puppet imposed from outside, favours the eu's commercial interests it will have its support. this is the project of european 'integration', which is committed to an imperialist policy of destabilisation in order to seize the markets and resources of the region. while the situation in ukraine was not the best, we now have the guarantee that european capitals will be the only ones to benefit from the latest political changes. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it represents a boost to the so-called 'comprehensive approach' to the european union's external action, which proposes to promote synergies in civil-military cooperation in external action and the use of funds earmarked for cooperation and development for military purposes. this approach means reaffirming the imperialist character of the european union and making available the instruments of external action in its favour. my group has tabled an alternative report because it is impossible to work with a text of the characteristics of the present one, which means opening the door to the financing of military projects with eu cooperation funds. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - the external action of the european union is a priority, but it is hampered by the interests of the member states' respective foreign policies. that is why the lisbon treaty itself established an ad hoc figure to counter this negative reality (examples of which we have seen on several occasions, the case of kosovo being a paradigm, and which cannot be repeated in such hot cases as ukraine and crimea) and to encourage the european institutions and the member states to coordinate foreign policy more effectively and thus to use their political strength better in the face of external events. a non-coordinated eu response will lead to weak and in no way operational action, and this is something europe cannot allow.
in writing. - in this report i voted against the decision of parliament to give discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the executive agencies, but in favour of the resolution which follows. this report approves the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, a decision which i voted against, considering that the commission has managed these funds in a way that has benefited private companies and eroded the interests of member states that have been hit by the austerity policies promoted by the commission. i voted in favour of the resolution because it contains many detailed criticisms and comments on the management of the funds which the commission will have to follow up.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it includes timely information provided by the court of auditors on the commission's management in the financial year 2012, it also includes observations which are far removed from the reality of the implementation of expenditure during that financial year. for example, the court of auditors maintains a positive approach to rule of law aid to kosovo. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres and for the establishment of a european network of information centres. it is because of aspects such as these that i have not been able to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - in this report i voted in favour of parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds and in favour of the resolution which follows. this report gives a positive assessment of the management of the above-mentioned funds, which have indeed given a boost to development policy and have been managed in accordance with the rules of good management. this report approves the management of the budget for the closure of the financial accounts of these funds, giving its approval to the diligent management of the financial resources allocated to these european development funds. the resolution contains detailed information on this management, pointing out problems and successes. i voted in favour of the resolution because it faithfully reflects this functioning.
in writing. - in this report i voted in favour of the parliament's decision to give discharge to the european council and the council for the financial year 2012, and in favour of the resolution which follows. this report is very critical of the management of the european council and the council and ends up postponing the decision on the approval of its management. the resolution condemns the lack of transparency and the errors made in various areas of management, where the well-known 'gentleman's agreement' still prevails, whereby parliament and the council agreed in 1970 not to investigate each other's accounts. that is why i voted in favour of the decision to postpone the adoption and in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i voted against the parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2012, but in favour of the resolution that follows. the report votes in favour of the management of the institution, but in its resolution it denounces the lack of transparency and the errors made in various areas of management, such as the management of staff contracts, the lack of respect for financial regulations, procurement procedures, etc. the report also notes that the european external action service has not taken any steps to resolve these problems. that is why i voted against the discharge decision and in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it does not include a responsible and verifiable check that the meat sold does not come from genetically cloned animals or their descendants. the labelling rules proposed in this report are voluntary and farmers will not have to give up the current labelling system. the question of the control of meat from cloned animals was raised by the european parliament at earlier stages, but during the negotiations with the other european institutions which make up the tripartite dialogue this article has been removed from the report. the european commission and the council have refused to point out that these animals may pose unknown health risks. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - against. at parliament level, we were successful with the introduction of labelling provisions for ‘clone foodʼ. regarding voluntary labelling, we do not believe that a simple reference to the general food labelling legislation is enough for a sensitive product such as beef and therefore rejected the deletion of the voluntary labelling provisions. keeping the approval system guarantees that consumers can have trust in what is indicated. on eid, views within the group differed slightly. in the committee on the environment, we agreed that a harmonised approach would be useful and decided to support an amendment calling for a mandatory eid system in 10 years time. the main argument for eid is that it provides for a faster and more accurate reading of individual animal codes directly into data processing systems (which means better and faster traceability of infected animals and/or infected food). a transition period of 10 years would allow those concerned to have time to familiarise themselves with the system. the main argument against mandatory eid is that it has the potential to disproportionally disadvantage small farmers (who cannot profit from economies of scale). however it seems that solutions can be found in that regard, e.g. compensation for small farmers.
in writing. - in this report i voted in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2012, and in favour of the resolution which follows. this report approves the management of the court and the resolution fully summarises the main highlights of the management during 2012, noting the impact of the lack of human resources on the activity carried out by the court. however, it is noted that steps have been taken to avoid these management problems. that is why i voted in favour of the discharge decision and in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i voted in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the court of auditors' budget for the financial year 2012, and in favour of the resolution which follows. this report approves the management of the court of auditors and the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the court's management in 2012 and highlights many positive aspects of the court's management as well as the problems that were highlighted during its management. as a proper assessment of management and a full analysis of all its aspects, i voted in favour of the discharge decision and in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i voted in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2012, and in favour of the resolution which follows. this report approves the court's management, and the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the management during 2012, noting the impact of the lack of human resources on the activity carried out by the court. however, it is noted that steps have been taken to avoid these management problems. that is why i voted in favour of the discharge decision and in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i voted in favour of the parliament's decision to give discharge to the committee of the regions for the financial year 2012, and in favour of the resolution which follows. this report exercises the right of the european parliament to scrutinise the accounts of the institutions of the european union. in this case, it approves the management of the committee of the regions, and the resolution fully summarises the main highlights of that management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i voted in favour of the discharge decision and the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i voted in favour of parliament's decision to give discharge to the european ombudsman for the financial year 2012, and in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the institutions of the european union. in this case, it approves the ombudsman's management and the resolution fully summarises the main highlights of that management during the financial year 2012. that is why i voted in favour of the discharge decision and the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the agencies of the european union. in this case, it approves the management of the centre and, as i do not agree with it, i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the agencies of the european union. in this case it approves the management of the centre, and as i do not agree with it i have not voted in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2012, nor in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the agencies of the european union. in this case it approves the management of the school in question, and as i do not agree with it i have not voted in favour. the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the financial year 2012, but gives a positive assessment of the merger with europol. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision or the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the agencies of the european union. in this case it approves the management of the said agency, and as i do not agree with it i have not voted in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2012, nor of the resolution which followed. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the agencies of the european union. in this case, it approves the management of the office and, as i do not agree with it, i did not vote in favour. the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year, but giving it a positive assessment. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision or the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2012, nor of the resolution which followed. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the agencies of the european union. in this case, i approve the management of the authority and, as i do not agree with it, i did not vote in favour. the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year, but giving it a positive assessment. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision or the resolution.
in writing. - the european system of financial supervisors (esfs) authorities play a key role in ensuring the solvency and safety of financial institutions and the stability and orderly functioning of financial markets, in accordance with european rules. they thus contribute to economic recovery and job creation in europe. the european parliament has been one of the main drivers behind the creation and development of these authorities. the court of auditors has found that the accounts of eba, eiopa and esma for the financial year 2012 are complete and correct in all material respects, the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, for which i was rapporteur, stresses that the additional tasks assigned to the authorities in their respective fields of activity will require increases in budget and new human resources in order to enable them to carry out their supervisory role satisfactorily. we have also asked the commission, as part of the review of the authorities' regulations planned for the beginning of the next parliamentary term, to create an independent budget line in the eu budget and to examine the payment of fees by market participants.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the agencies of the european union. in this case, it approves the management of the centre and, as i do not agree with it, i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the agencies of the european union. in this case, it approves the management of the agency and, as i do not agree with it, i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the agencies of the european union. in this case, it approves the management of the agency and, as i do not agree with it, i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the agency, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the authority, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the institute, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the authority, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the institute, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the agency, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the observatory, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the agency, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2012, nor in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the agency, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. the resolution summarises in full the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year, but gives it a positive assessment. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, nor for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the agency, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2012, nor in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the authority, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year, but gives it a positive assessment. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision or for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the foundation, a decision which i do not share, and therefore i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the agency, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i voted against the decision of parliament to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the euratom supply agency and i abstained in the vote on the resolution. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the agency, a decision which i do not share, and i have therefore voted against it. the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year, but with a positive conclusion. that is why i voted against the discharge decision and abstained on the resolution.
in writing. - i was not able to vote in favour of the decision of parliament to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the foundation, a decision which i do not share, and therefore i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - i was not able to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of eurojust's budget, nor in favour of the resolution which follows it. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of eurojust, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year, but gives it a positive assessment. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, nor for the resolution.
in writing. - i was not able to vote in favour of the decision of parliament to approve the corresponding management of europol's budget, nor in favour of the resolution which follows it. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of europol, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year, but gives it a positive assessment. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, nor for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the agency, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - i was not able to vote in favour of the decision of parliament to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders, nor in favour of the resolution which follows it. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the agency, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year, but gives it a positive assessment. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision or for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european gnss agency, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the agency, a decision which i do not share, and that is why i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - i was not able to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking in this report, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the joint undertaking, a decision which i do not share, and therefore i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the clean sky joint undertaking's budget, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the joint undertaking, a decision which i do not share, and therefore i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the joint undertaking, a decision which i do not share, and therefore i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the joint undertaking, a decision which i do not share, and therefore i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the joint undertaking's budget for the implementation of the joint technological initiative on innovative medicines, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the joint undertaking, a decision which i do not share, and therefore i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the joint undertaking, a decision which i do not share, and therefore i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows. by this report, the european parliament exercises its right to scrutinise the accounts of the european union agencies. in this case, it approves the management of the joint undertaking, a decision which i do not share, and therefore i did not vote in favour. however, the resolution fully reflects the main highlights of the aforementioned management during the 2012 financial year. that is why i did not vote for the discharge decision, but for the resolution.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it makes some very good references to the cost of tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance, it does not call for a european union tax policy to solve economic problems. the report details the losses suffered by eu financial resources due to fraud, and points to the agricultural and cohesion policies as the most problematic. however, there is no mention of the huge amount of financial resources being absorbed by the banking sector of the member states because of their continued fraud. the report also stresses the need to implement the european and mediterranean plant protection organisation, a new instrument to boost agro-industrial enterprises. i have therefore been unable to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, despite the unusual balance in its wording, it continues to claim that parliament can impose itself on national sovereignty in matters which go beyond the implementation of human rights and have more to do with the imperial objectives of the european union. the resolution introduces in a politically balanced way the need to address human rights problems in iran, etc., but it takes the opportunity to subject the european political will to the interests of us imperialist policy, denouncing iran as a destabilising agent in the region, when the main destabiliser is the united states. that is why i could not vote in favour of this resolution.
mr president, we had two challenges: firstly, the european union's reduced dependence on oil - which has become even more apparent in recent days - and secondly, the reduction of the impact of transport on climate change. for years we have also been warning that the lack of infrastructure and recharging points for vehicles or ships using new fuels was clearly putting us in a vicious circle, because if there were no recharging points, there would be no cleaner cars and trucks, and if there were no cleaner cars and trucks, there would be no recharging points. i therefore welcome this agreement, which mr grosch has achieved with difficulty - again because of national selfishness - but at least we have reached the point of acceptance. the deadlines have been delayed in my view - we would have preferred it earlier for parliament and the commission - and a decision has also been taken which is not technologically neutral as regards the plug. i will not say who benefited because we have in principle obtained a certain transitional period for the plug which did exist. in any case, i only hope that the choice made will not delay the implementation of this directive by a single day - and i am right in saying 'not a single day'. i mean, i hope that one-off plug we've been talking about is on the market when it's needed. but at last we will see a network of hydropower plants like the one that will soon exist in my region - in aragon - where there is only one station at the moment. and there will also be lng moorings in ports. there was no budget, there is no budget in this directive, but it was foreseen - and i thank mr kallas for getting a good agreement on that - in the connecting europe facility. so although the commission had a little difficulty accepting these kind of strange projects, where transport issues but also energy were involved, i think we have finally got a good bet. i hope that the projects will soon be available, both for ports and for roads and also for urban nodes. i hope that these projects will be presented soon, that the commission will give them priority and facilitate them. only in this way will european and other car, truck and shipbuilders be encouraged to build them with a diversified capacity to accept other types of fuel: this will be the way to make european transport greener.
mr president, i too will be speaking on the report on plant health. the biggest problem facing plant health is the importation of pests from third countries. and the amendments to article 40, 78 to 85, propose a new strategy for more effective import controls, by being more preventive and comprehensive. this position was approved by the committee on agriculture. it is a position to defend farmers and plantations within the european union. the european union is the area of the world with the least protection against imported pests. a method for avoiding plant health risk is laid down which is no more or less the same as that which exists in animal health. we have always maintained in this parliament that the european union must protect itself as the united states protects itself, as russia protects itself, as the rest of the world protects itself. we cannot be as unprotected as we are in all things plant health and pest. we must also be aware that europe is less and less able to use pesticides to combat all these kinds of diseases that come to us from third countries. who are supporting this position that i'm advocating? it is being supported by farmers, who are losing their crops and suffering the consequences of an imported disease. and who's against it? they are against companies that trade in plants and seeds, which do not care if a crop is lost because they do not lose anything and do not have to fight against it. that is why i am defending this position and these amendments which offer us a system more like that of russia or the united states. and a few words only on animal health. the report and the regulation deal with animal health, not animal welfare, antibiotic resistance, or transport of animals. it deals exclusively with diseases affecting animals and which can be spread within the european union.
mr president, commissioner, on many occasions and in many reports we have called for genuine reciprocity in agricultural trade with third countries. this reciprocity in plant health matters is precisely what the committee on agriculture has adopted in the fajmon report: it consists in applying to plant production the same health protection that we apply to livestock production. all that is not on the list is either prohibited or under study for authorisation. it is nothing more or less than what countries like the united states, canada or russia apply to our vegetable production. this system would require that the checks be carried out in the country of origin and paid for by the exporting third country, which is not the case today: the european union, in addition to being open to the entry of all kinds of pests, pays for the checks of products that should never have left their country of origin; but moreover, the burden of proof also falls on the union. the current system requires us to prove to the third country that its shipments are contaminated. this has to stop. the system is not working properly and the commission knows it. last year there were countless border interceptions and the commission acted late and badly. thus, there were 33 interceptions in 2013 of the black spot fungus in citrus fruit from south africa, a proven risk to european citrus plantations, and the commission only reacted when the south african season had ended.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be brief because i think there is general agreement on the importance of giving small and mediumsized enterprises the means to overcome the great challenge of combating the crisis and providing job prospects for our young people. i would just like to say a few words about financing, access to credit for businesses. in total, we have decided to allocate 150 billion to industrial policy, to business in general, from the regional funds, 40 from horizon 2020 and 2.3 from cosme. as regards horizon 2020, it was parliament which decided to allocate 20% to small and medium-sized enterprises. there is also the battle for cosme, internationalisation, venture capital and the tourism sector, which is just for small and mediumsized enterprises. there is also the large package which the european commission proposed together with the european investment bank, which is unfortunately blocked by the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, the package is blocked by the council and therefore we must continue to push for the european commission and the european investment bank to make the proposal a reality, which could have given rise to many measures to support small and mediumsized enterprises. mr president, i think this debate has once again demonstrated how much parliament and the commission agree on the protection of the small and mediumsized enterprises sector. we cannot get out of the crisis by simply reducing public debt, but only if we are able to help the real economy, develop the market and, again, follow the fundamental line laid down in the treaty, which is the social market economy where the market is only an instrument for social policy, and social policy can be pursued in europe if we continue to help the internal market, industrial policy and policy to support small and mediumsized enterprises, because only in this way can new jobs be created and the crisis be prevented from having any further negative effects.
mr president, on 25 may this parliament will be judged by the citizens. after seven years of crisis, the question is: is the european union closer or further away from its citizens? during this term we have passed over 700 laws. there are certainly a number of surplus and some fundamental ones missing. important things have been done in the financial field, but there are also unfinished business. one, and not the least important, is the implementation of the financial transaction tax. after the failure of a fee for all the member states, enhanced cooperation was initiated for 11 member states, including spain. my government - and i welcome it - is a supporter and promoter of an effective economic and fiscal union without which europe cannot move forward. if we want the union to remain competitive with other regions, if we want to overcome the demographic challenge and maintain our distinctive brand of welfare state, it is time to do our homework. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. nothing new under the sun! gentlemen of the council, make up your minds.
mr president, in this last part-session i feel obliged to give an account. we have ratified a number of initiatives to strengthen the rights of europeans: more protection for citizens when they act as consumers, an end to unfair terms by strictly enforcing compliance with european law and, in the event of non-compliance, sanctions against infringers. it also means more security for the most vulnerable: helping the retail trade, on which many european families depend, and implementing the rapid resolution of collective disputes so that they do not burden the delicate economy of european households any more. the measures to stimulate growth because, at the dawn of the economic and financial crisis, erratic policies have been applied which are leading us to deflation, with harsh budgetary adjustments which weaken not only the welfare state but also the confidence of the citizens. poverty and inequality have reached shameful and intolerable levels, as in my country (the second country with the highest rate of child poverty). the priority of this parliament is to defend the general european interest and to safeguard the common good.
mr president, on 8 april representatives of the parliament of catalonia, representing the will of a majority of that parliament and of the catalan citizens, went to the spanish congress of deputies to ask for the transfer of the competence to consult the catalan people on their political future. the congress of deputies flatly rejected the proposal. unfortunately, the no is the usual response from the spanish authorities. in 2005 he was the no to the new political statute for euskadi approved by a majority of the basque parliament. in 2010 it was the constitutional court that declared important parts of the catalan statute that had been approved in a referendum by the catalan people unconstitutional. yesterday, the navarrese people of etxarri-aranatz held a democratic, consensual and transparent referendum, in which more than 90% of the voters declared themselves in favour of the creation of an independent basque state. it was a real democratic exercise. catalonia will vote on its future on 9 november. the dialectic of votes and democracy will be imposed on the dialectic of imposition and denial by the spanish authorities. finally, today marks the 83rd anniversary of the proclamation of the second spanish republic, a time of democracy and hope for the peoples of the spanish state, which was cut short by the fascist uprising of general franco, which led to a forty-year dictatorship whose consequences we are still suffering.
madam president, during this parliamentary term we have adopted legislative initiatives on capital requirements and created a european system of financial supervision. to overcome the crisis, to restore credit and to reap the full benefits of european integration, we must go further. the adoption in this house of the directives for the harmonisation of deposit guarantee schemes and the adoption of a union framework for the resolution of financial institutions is a significant step forward in the process of providing security for depositors and protecting taxpayers against the problems of financial institutions within the union. it is also an essential requirement for the functioning of the banking union, which should break the vicious circle between sovereign and private debt, end the fragmentation of credit and improve the transmission of monetary policy in the euro area. i would like to express my satisfaction that, after the adoption of the single supervisory mechanism, an agreement has been reached in extremis to establish a single resolution mechanism and fund which will enable effective european action, speed up the transition to a single resolution fund and respect parliament's responsibility as a co-legislator. however, i would also like to say that the process of reforming and strengthening the financial system must continue with structural reform, the improvement of the banking union as a single deposit guarantee mechanism and the establishment of a common fiscal safety net. we must continue our efforts because, in the end, banking union will require financial union and fiscal union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the joint debate on:- the report by christel schaldemose, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safety of consumer products and repealing council directive 87/357/eec and council directive 2001/95/ec (com (2013) 0078 - c7-0042/2013 - 2013/0049 (cod)) (a7-0355/2013),- the report by sirpa pietikäinen, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on product market surveillance and amending council directives 89/686/eec and 93/15/eec, 94/9/ec, 94/25/ec, 95/16/ec, 97/23/ec, 1999/23/ec, 2000/5/ec, 2000/5/ec, 2001/14/ec and 2001/14/ec (com (2013) 0078 - c7-0042/2013 - 2013/0049 (cod)) (a7-0355/2013),- the report by josef pietikäinen, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european parliament and of the council on the internal market and consumer in consumer protection of consumer products and consumer products and consumer services, no 2003/1037/14/ec, no.
the package of legislation on consumer product safety is a major step forward in protecting european consumers and in boosting the competitiveness of our companies on international markets. i would like to focus my remarks on what i consider to be a vital step forward in this legislative package: the inclusion of mandatory origin labelling, detailed in article 7 of the regulation on the safety of consumer products. i think that this is a great opportunity for manufacturers, importers, consumers and, in particular, for our smes. for european smes, the commission has published a communication on the this measure creates a single, simpler standard for all and offers our companies, especially our smes, better access to and equal competition in the global market. in europe we manufacture our products to the highest quality standards in the world. we ask our companies to do more than our competitors ask of theirs. we must capitalise on our quality assurance. we must take advantage of the greater added value of our products. origin labelling also increases information to consumers, enabling them to make informed and conscious choices when consuming. the consumer must know where the products he buys come from, and he must be assured that they meet our high regulatory standards of quality and safety and that they are in line with our social, labour and environmental legislation, thus preventing abuse and allowing a better fight against counterfeiting. with 'made in', we filled a gap in european union legislation and created more of a european single market, more of a europe to get out of the crisis. it is not a protectionist measure, but rather the opposite: a europeanist measure. i therefore think it is essential to ask this house to support the adoption of this important article 7 of the regulation on the safety of consumer products.
mr president, this morning we are talking about costs or safety - both are compatible - and about product and market surveillance, which is necessary to ensure transposition and thus strengthen the confidence and security of citizens. but we must go further, and the council should know this, because with the improvement of the early warning system for dangerous products, their number has increased. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. in addition, as stated in article 7, the mandatory indication of the country of origin - true and essential information for consumers - and the traceability of products will make it possible to combat unfair competition and insecurity. i therefore welcome the adoption of this necessary measure because it has been supported by a large majority of the industrial sector. and we also need to pay attention to vulnerable consumers when assessing safety. finally, i congratulate my colleagues on the excellent work they have done and i encourage and call on the governments and the council to reach agreement as soon as possible and to transpose this important and decisive legislation in a timely manner.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like once again to thank the honourable members, especially the rapporteurs ms[nbsp ]schaldemose and ms[nbsp ]pietikäinen, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for the overall support they have shown for the commission’s proposal. today’s vote is an important milestone and sends out a strong signal that eu legislation can reconcile a high level of consumer safety, regulatory simplification for businesses, and effective enforcement by authorities. i hope that legislative negotiations will be launched soon to allow us to discuss outstanding issues, including certain amendments which we will need to address. i call therefore on the council to enter into negotiations with the european parliament and the commission on these two important legislative proposals as soon as possible. finally, sincere thanks to mr[nbsp ]weidenholzer for the utilities service report.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, a brief word to emphasize that article 7 is not intended to add to the burden of bureaucracy on businesses, but to send a strong signal in the fight against counterfeiting. the counterfeit represents a large market, equal to that of the drug trade, run by the criminal world. everything we do against it can only be positive. counterfeiting is damaging our health, our businesses and our jobs. i think it is therefore important to continue to support article 7, which is already used in many countries and by many producers, because it does not lead to bureaucratic or economic burdens, but protects workers, businesses and the health of our citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote on the report by mrs schaldemose and mrs pietikäinen will take place this afternoon at 6 p.m. and the vote on the report by mr weidenholzer will take place now at 12 noon. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
in writing. - the three-part report on the banking union raises doubts as to the intergovernmental nature of its conception and is the second time that strategic economic and financial rules have been drawn up on the basis of an intergovernmental agreement. there has been significant progress, but the fact that so-called 'systemic' financial institutions will be able to continue operating in their current form leaves taxpayers still exposed to the losses generated by their speculative activities. to give visibility to these doubts, i have abstained in this report.
in writing. - one of the real and very important objectives within and for the european union is the establishment of an effective, and of course efficient, banking union. these proposals will legislate the fact of having a single bank resolution mechanism, thus sharing a single fund of almost 55 billion with the member states, to which the banks themselves will contribute, and which will be available in eight years at the latest. the commission has also proposed a rescue and resolution directive, which would require shareholders and creditors of banks to be the first to deal with potential losses of banks should any problems arise. in addition, the deposit guarantee will oblige banks to finance national funds up to eur 100,000, starting to apply from may 2015. the whole procedure will allow for an agile and efficient system in the management of banking institutions and, above all, will avoid taxpayers having to bear the costs of another bank rescue.
in writing. - the importance of small investors as citizens taking on risky activities in order to secure savings and financial security for themselves and their families must be the subject of an express guarantee that incorrect or insufficiently clear information will not lead to an unforeseen loss. it should be understood that we are talking about non-professional investors who need to have all the information necessary to clearly understand what they are doing, outside and outside of commercial or similar promotions, also knowing what final objectives may be behind the financial products mentioned. the requirements of civil liability which might be invoked in the event of a case being brought would be perfectly determined in the terms here approved.
in writing. - the ecall service is based on the installation of equipment approved for the single european emergency number 112 in all vehicles from certain categories, as well as the establishment of a framework for the management of ecall calls in telecommunications networks. this line will make ecall accessible to all citizens in europe, consolidating it as an eu-wide service, accelerating deployment and unlocking the full potential of the ecall system to save lives and reduce the severity of injuries. in parallel with this system, it is envisaged that other means or services of added value may be added, providing both economic and safety benefits.
in writing. - in the economic circumstances of the european union, it is necessary to improve the value of community products in order to cope more effectively with the globalisation of trade, to increase market shares both within and outside the european union and to react to critical situations. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a very good one. the report also advocates a work programme which should provide a specific regime to react in the event of serious market disturbances or loss of consumer confidence. in designing this programme, the commission will have to take account of the handicaps of mountain areas, islands and the outermost regions.
in writing. - european agri-food products need to be promoted not only within the community's borders but also worldwide, thus providing support for expanding markets and opening up new opportunities. certain products will be given special aid, such as wine, but beer, chocolate, bread, pastries, pasta, salt, sweet corn and cotton will also be eligible for promotion. but not all those involved in fisheries and aquaculture will be left out. in this way, a sector as strategic as the agri-food sector is being helped to emerge from this general crisis, while at the same time promoting and fostering consumer confidence in european products. the contribution to these campaigns will be made not by the member states but by the european union's own funds and by the organisation responsible for each product.
in writing. - with the projected increase in the population aged 65 to 80 (by 40% between 2010 and 2030), finding solutions for active and healthy ageing and tackling demographic change is an urgent and pressing challenge in 21st century europe. on the other hand, the 'green' economy also provides an opportunity to develop innovative products and services that respond to social needs while driving economic growth and new business models. in the european research area, a number of initiatives have emerged to respond to the challenge of 'active and healthy ageing'. one of the main ones is the 'aided and active daily living' programme. this programme advocates the improvement of the quality of life of older citizens based on their increased use of new information and communication technologies.
in writing. - building on the success of the previous eureka programme, the report proposes eu participation in the eureka eurostars 2 programme, which promotes market-oriented research activities carried out by smes. the new financial contribution will be increased from eur 100 million to eur 287 million under the 'industrial leadership' section of horizon 2020.
in writing. - metrology is a fundamental element of our high-tech world. the overall objective of empir is to provide metrology solutions that support innovation and industrial competitiveness, as well as measurement technologies that address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, including support for policy development and implementation. one of the important objectives of the proposal is the creation of an integrated european metrology research system with critical mass and active engagement at regional, national, european and international levels. the programme, which started in 2014, was co-funded by the european union and the participating countries. the proposal is to continue until 2020 with a budget of 300 million euros, compared with the original 200 million.
in writing. - the proposal will require certain large companies to include a statement in their annual report on information relating to at least environmental, social and employee-related issues, respect for human rights and anti-corruption and bribery issues. the obligation will only apply to those enterprises in which the average number of employees is more than 500 and to their subsidiaries. i regret that a mention of disability has not been included among the statements that the company must make in its annual report, as the prestigious spanish organization once demands and as i have tried unsuccessfully in the development of this report. it is essential that disability is addressed, otherwise it will continue to cause discrimination and social exclusion to the detriment of all.
in writing. - there is scope for developing sustainable bio-based industries in europe. however safeguards to ensure these are environmentally sound, do not lead to negative effects such as land-use change, land grabbing, competition with food production or downgrading of the use of biomass are not sufficiently provided for in the proposed joint undertaking. so, i abstained.
in writing. - i voted against because i think the report is too favourable to large companies in the sector and, for example, does not contain any conditions for access to employment creation funds in europe. small companies in the sector will also be disadvantaged in accessing r & d funds and will probably have to act as subcontractors for large companies.
in writing. - i voted against the amendments to respect the interinstitutional agreement adopted, but i support their content, particularly as regards the improvement of the transparency of the operation of the joint undertakings.
- the tripartite social summit for growth and employment was established on the basis of the council decision of 6 march 2003 to institutionalize informal high-level meetings. its task is to ensure continuous cooperation between the council, the commission and the social partners, in accordance with the treaty and taking into account the competences of the union institutions and bodies. the report proposes to extend the tasks of the social summit to include the coordination of the parties' strategies for growth, high employment, social integration, education, training and health protection. it also states that the outcome of the summit should be presented to the european council for decision-making.
member of the commission. - madam president, i believe the discussion has confirmed the importance of this directive. it helps to foster the mobility of workers. it helps to improve working conditions in europe and also helps the better functioning of the single market. that is why the proposal was also included in the single market act. i think it has been confirmed that this is a balanced proposal which offers tangible improvements to european workers, without putting an excessive burden on pension funds or employers. as the commission outlined in its white paper on pensions, promoting safe supplementary pensions is highly instrumental in sustaining adequate pensions against the background of ageing populations and increasing labour mobility in europe. ageing is indeed a common european challenge, but the eu is not taking decisions instead of the member states concerning the design of pension systems within the member states. i believe the white paper clarified the common objective of pension systems to have adequate, safe and sustainable pensions in all eu member states. which specific combination of the various pillars satisfies these goals remains within the competence of the member states in the eu. ensuring the preservation of occupational and pension rights of mobile workers will become increasingly important in a context where an important part of the working population relies at least partially on supplementary pension provisions, due to national and also individual decisions. that is why this debate has been so important and that is why i personally also appreciate so much the work of the rapporteur, ria oomen-ruijten. congratulations.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . it is indeed important, madam president, that on 27 february, after 12 intensive tripartite dialogues, we managed to reach a provisional agreement on the directive on the posting of workers. this agreement was confirmed at coreper on 5 march and by the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs on 18 march. the agreement reached is a balanced text. this is welcome in itself, given the very different positions of our two institutions at the start of the negotiations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have managed to reach agreement on a directive which, from the point of view of cross-border application, contains a significant number of extensive and innovative elements. i think we can all be very pleased with the result. in these negotiations, the role of the european commission is often crucial. and that is certainly true in this particular case and i would like to thank commissioner andor here. at critical moments, the commission was the key to helping the two co-legislators to find a compromise solution. the agreement was, however, largely possible because of the determination and commitment of the two co-legislators. i believe that each of us negotiated in a constructive way, listened carefully to the other's concerns and made no effort to make the final result - the directive - transparent and effective. that's vital in these kinds of negotiations. i would like to congratulate the negotiating team of the european parliament, in particular the rapporteur, mrs danuta jazłowiecka, and the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs, mrs pervenche berès. both worked hard to keep all the groups at the negotiating table when we were trying to bridge important differences. with this common will to succeed, we have been able to find solutions to complex issues. in particular, the text now covers parliament's concerns regarding undeclared work, the reference to the rome i regulation and sham self-employment. it also takes into account the council's concerns regarding national control measures and joint and several liability. i also believe that it has fulfilled a key objective which was to improve and strengthen the way in which this directive is applied in practice throughout the union. this directive is important for the approximately one million workers who are posted by their employers each year from their country of origin to another country to carry out temporary work. the work carried out by these people is essential for the provision of crossborder services in a number of areas. it is particularly important for those service activities which require a skilled and trained workforce. at the same time, labour mobility and economic freedom must not be used to achieve a 'downward equalization' of working conditions. this means that the right balance had to be struck between protecting workers' rights and facilitating the exercise of economic freedom, including cross-border activities. this agreement fully addresses this challenge by establishing a general common framework of appropriate measures, including measures to prevent any circumvention of rights or breach of rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. this should now facilitate the renewal of trust between national authorities, workers and businesses. it is an important achievement in the strengthening of social europe. i am convinced that the implementation of these provisions will help to facilitate the free provision of services and to safeguard the rights to which posted workers are entitled and which they should expect to be respected. thank you very much.
member of the commission. - madam president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, ms danuta jazłowiecka, and the chair of the committee on employment and social affairs, ms pervenche berès, as well as the negotiating team, for having spared no efforts to find acceptable compromise solutions despite divergent points of departure between the co-legislators on this proposal. i also thank the greek presidency for working so hard for a good result. over twelve trialogues were held in a very short period of time. discussions were difficult until the last moment, but both institutions demonstrated the necessary spirit of flexibility which finally paved the way for reaching an agreement on the text as a whole. the compromise text is a balanced one. it contains a comprehensive package of appropriate measures for better enforcement and implementation of the rules governing the posting of workers. it guarantees better protection of posted workers and companies involved, as well as setting out a more transparent and predictable legal framework for service providers in the single market. parliament has insisted on a number of points which have been taken on board and which the commission considers to be helpful. for example: the introduction of the criteria to be used for classification as a worker by the host member state; the reference to bogus self-employment; and the need to protect non-genuine posted workers in line with regulation (ec) no 593/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 17 june 2008 on the law applicable to contractual obligations (rome i). as regards control measures, the compromise text acknowledges member states’ competencies to implement such measures while guaranteeing increased transparency for service providers and providing for an ex-post monitoring mechanism by the commission. in addition, specific concerns as regards the role of the social partners have been taken up in the compromise text. furthermore, and to a large extent following the commission proposal, the compromise text greatly improves the protection of workers’ rights in sub-contracting chains – in particular in the construction sector. it introduces the possibility for workers to hold the contractor in a direct sub-contractor relationship liable for any outstanding net remuneration corresponding to the minimum rates of pay in addition to, or in place of, their employer. besides these key provisions, the text also provides for increased cooperation between all administrations involved, improved access to information, and the cross-border enforcement of fines and penalties. altogether, the comprehensive package of measures will considerably improve the current situation and provide for a number of appropriate tools to improve the protection of posted workers’ rights and prevent social dumping. considering the provisionally agreed text as the best compromise that could be reached, the time has now come to close the deal.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done for so long with the other members, and i ask that the agreement reached, an agreement which will affect one million workers, be voted in favour. despite differences between member states and political groups, a good balance has been struck between the provision of services and the protection of posted workers, improving the current situation and thus moving towards a european labour market. in times of economic and employment crisis and difficulties, mobility must become one of the key tools to combat them, and the displacement of workers must be a safe way of working across national borders that respects workers' rights and fights against so-called 'false displaced persons'. cooperation and mutual assistance between member states is therefore one of the most important achievements, as it will facilitate the implementation of controls and inspections, help to detect and investigate abuses and infringements of the applicable rules and, above all, allow cross-border enforcement of the sanctions imposed, something which was not possible today. the text will also facilitate the implementation, application and enforcement of the posting of workers directive and improve access to information on host country working conditions and applicable collective agreements through the single national website. in short, the aim of this directive is to protect workers, regardless of the member state in which they are employed. finally, i would like to emphasize the possibility for the member states to take the control measures they consider appropriate, within the framework of article 9, to ensure compliance with the obligations laid down.
madam president, we socialist members have repeatedly said that social dumping must be combated and prevented with all determination, because, in addition to the injustice and discrimination suffered by foreign workers, an atmosphere of rejection of these workers is created which feeds the political discourse of xenophobes and racists - as we have just heard. we are unanimous in saying that medicine is clear: there must be equal treatment and the legislation of the host country must be applied at all times, without exception. we also know unanimously that the current directive is insufficient and must be changed, and that a mere implementing directive is not enough. but national realities are different, and there are members in my group who appreciate that in their countries, taking into account national legislation, this small step forward is being made, which must be encouraged. others, however, think it preferable to try the second reading and to remind you again, commissioner, that we are awaiting what we asked of mr barroso: a new directive on posted workers, because the one we have is not enough to ensure equal treatment and the application of the legislation of the host country. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. well, i think there are politicians and policies whose "fund of commerce" is to exacerbate hatreds to what is different, to the foreign: that is their "fund of commerce". for them, the more trouble there is, the better for them, because the more political capital they have. i totally reject it. i have been an immigrant, i have been the son of immigrants, and i believe that emigration can solve the problems of the host country and the problems of the sending countries, provided that the treatment is equal, the salary is equal and the immigrants are treated as human beings in the host countries. and i totally reject the racism and xenophobia that some politicians flaunt, which feed the worst of human passions.
madam president, i would like to thank mr potočnik, particularly for his interest in the problems of illegal landfills in spain. i would also like to thank mrs auken for her report. and thank you to everyone who worked on it. environmental actions cannot be just those that relate - and so society believes - to large industries or large emissions or large public transport. they require commitments from the whole of society: from politicians, governments and also from citizens. and the report presented by mrs auken can be described as balanced because neither the objective is so large nor so ambitious, nor the timetables so reckless, and therefore the responsible attitude of a democratic politician in this case, who is committed to the environment, must be to strengthen it. please, let's not fool ourselves by appealing to freedom, magnifying obstacles, evaluating whether it's expensive or not expensive. it is not expensive, it does not appeal to any freedom, it cannot be left to the good will of the people. if that were the case, we could abolish all criminal codes on the basis that human beings are good, and no one in this parliament is proposing that. it needs to be regular and it is being done right now. there was a time when the degree of civilization and development of nations was measured by how they treated people; then we said by how they treated animals; and now we also say by how they treat their waste, by how they behave in the face of the problem it represents. so reducing plastic bags by 50 percent in three years and 80 percent in five years is not that hard. we must achieve this, and it is a good opportunity to test our commitment to the environment and to the level of civilization we want to achieve in this europe that shelters us.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on russian pressure on the eastern partnership countries and in particular the destabilisation of eastern ukraine (2014/2699 ((rsp)).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, honourable members, it was mid-december when we discussed the outcome of the vilnius summit and the massive support for reform, modernisation and a chance to live by european values shown by ukrainian citizens in the streets and squares of kiev and other ukrainian cities. we then concluded that in our eastern partnership we respect and defend the rights and freedoms of each individual, and we must defend the right of every nation to make its own choices. a couple of months ago, we reiterated that russia – the neighbour of our neighbour – can only gain from ukraine’s success and it therefore has a chance to become a part of the joint efforts to bring stability and prosperity back to ukraine. yet, the latest developments in ukraine show that the notion of europe, whole and free, based on shared commitments to human rights and freedoms, democracy and the rule of law, as well as the freedom and sovereignty of all the european states, their right to choose their own destiny and their freedom of association, is being challenged in an extremely serious and dangerous way. the coordinated and professional actions by the armed groups, including those penetrating into ukrainian territory from abroad, in eastern ukraine, resemble the crimea scenario. the european union has appealed to the russian federation to call back its troops from the ukrainian border and cease any further actions aimed at destabilising ukraine. any threat or use of force – be it military force or economic coercion – against ukraine or any other countries is not acceptable and must be stopped. it is in our common interest to avoid violence and bloodshed on the european continent which could spiral out of control. it is in our common interest to jointly work towards the establishment of a common area of prosperity, stability and democracy on the european continent. yet, such an area can only be established on the basis of the helsinki osce principles and in line with international law. developments in the upcoming days will demonstrate the choice of russia. but they may also require unequivocal choices on our side. our responses to the crisis in ukraine-russia relations, as well as our efforts to bring stability, security and prosperity back to ukraine, are comprehensive. firstly, on diplomatic efforts: quadrilateral talks on ukraine that are taking place tomorrow have been the european union’s preferred framework and come at our initiative as well. the european union has been firm in insisting that any solution on ukraine must be peaceful, must involve ukraine and must be based on full respect for ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, including the right of ukraine to decide on its own constitution and political future. the high representative and vice-president, catherine ashton, has been very closely engaged, leading these efforts on the european union side. she will meet the foreign ministers of the united states, the russian federation and ukraine in geneva tomorrow, in an attempt to de-escalate the crisis and to engage russia in a forward-looking process. given the complex situation in ukraine, it is a considerable success that these international talks are taking place. the eu has also strongly supported the establishment of an osce special monitoring commission. it is doing very valuable work on the ground in the eastern regions. the european union has provided and will continue providing actual substantial assistance to the mission, to ensure that it can carry out its mandate in the best way possible. furthermore, at the last foreign affairs council, an important step was also taken towards a possible csdp mission. secondly, the european union has taken a firm and united stance after the illegal annexation of crimea by russia, including sanctions against individuals responsible for undermining the territorial integrity of ukraine. condemning the actions undertaken by armed individuals in cities of eastern ukraine, the european union has decided to further expand the list of those subject to asset freezes and visa bans. these measures can gradually be enlarged to a broad range of economic areas, should russia continue to destabilise ukraine. thirdly, the european union has not recognised the illegal annexation of crimea and is working to establish the practical parameters of this non-recognition policy. fourthly, the eu is firmly committed to providing strong political and financial backing to ukraine. on 21 march, we signed the political chapters of the association agreement and we have just adopted a set of unilateral trade measures that will open the european union’s door to exports from ukraine. we remain committed to concluding the signature procedure of the remaining chapters of the association agreement as soon as possible after the 25 may presidential elections. at the end of march i was in kiev with commissioner lewandowski and several directors-general of the commission to agree on a joint plan. we have moved fast on this, and last week the european commission created a support group which will help ukraine to implement this plan – a so-called european agenda for reform – which lists the political and economic reforms we agreed with ukraine, based on their needs. clear progress has been made already on the financial front: the foreign affairs council adopted on monday a decision on a eur 1 billion macro-financial assistance programme. another issue of critical importance is energy security. the letter by president putin to 18 member states and five partner countries illustrates well just how important this issue is. the european union will respond jointly to the letter, in order to agree on consultations with russia and ukraine, with a view to ensuring security of supply and transit. allow me to emphasise: our relations with russia on energy are those of mutual interdependence. the european union is the largest market for russian gas and oil. furthermore, in reaction to recent developments, the european commission will, as requested by the european council, conduct an in-depth study of eu energy security and will present a comprehensive plan for the reduction of european union energy dependence. we are committed to facilitating an agreement between the slovak and ukrainian gas operators on reverse flow. moreover, the ukrainian government is aware of the need to reform the energy sector in line with the energy community commitments, and displays determination to commence these reforms. while ukraine is naturally at the centre of our attention, we are likewise following the situation very closely in moldova and georgia. political developments in both countries need to be watched carefully as we prepare for the signature and implementation of association agreements including the deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas), and given the existing external vulnerabilities. we are increasing our political engagement, including with high level visits by presidents van rompuy and barroso. the european commission has also invited the ukrainian, moldovan and georgian governments to brussels in may. we should note the unprecedented speed with which the procedures bringing the association agreements with moldova and georgia have been completed. the time has been cut by more than two thirds, enabling us to sign the agreements already in june. moreover, visa liberalisation with moldova will take effect in only a couple of days, on 28 april. this is a key achievement, bringing clear benefits to the entire population. in parallel, we encourage georgia and the republic of moldova to continue implementing reforms as part of their commitment to further strengthen their political association and economic integration with the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we are witnessing in eastern ukraine is a deliberate destabilisation operation by separatists, following a pre-established scenario that we have already seen in crimea: self-defence militias, purporting to be civilians, fully equipped, armed and armed, without insignia or badges. and in the face of this escalation, we are seeing a whole series of statements and meetings in the international community: from the president of the united states, the secretary-general of the united nations, the council of foreign ministers of the european union, the high representative, the commissioner responsible - and, tomorrow, the resolution that this parliament will adopt. and the question, commissioner, which was on my mind on monday when i was flying to strasbourg, is what will remain of ukraine when the presidential elections are held on 25 may? we have suspended the negotiations on the association agreement with russia, we have suspended our participation in the g8 and we have, commissioner, applied economic sanctions to 33 people, which were extended by the council of ministers last week. we have also signed the political chapter of the association agreement with ukraine, accelerated the implementation of trade measures and mobilised a package of eur 11 billion; however, the separatist escalation, which has been carried forward by the un charter, the helsinki act and the budapest protocol, continues. and you are right, commissioner: this process must be stopped, but we are not going to stop it with umbrellas. we must isolate those who are politically promoting this destabilization, move on to the second phase of economic sanctions and see that the soft power of the european union has not been sufficient, commissioner, to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. let us hope, mr president, that the four-party meeting tomorrow will be able to put an end to this situation and stabilise ukraine, which is vital to the interests of the european union.
mr president, mr füle, the destabilisation of ukraine is the result of a coup d'état. a violent coup d'etat, with armed paramilitaries, fascists. this is what has destabilized ukraine. an organized destabilization between the us government and the european union, which have financed, supported, sustained, and pulled off this coup d'état. and there's no use in double-talking. violence is violence. the one that's happening now in the west and the one that happened in the east. it's violence. and therefore, the rule of law is what should be the guide of governments. and what was done there was a coup d'etat. i insist, a violent coup. yanukovych has no sympathy on my part, none. but he was the head of state, voted in by the ukrainians. and it is the ukrainians who have to decide their fate. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mr tannock thinks it is normal that military action is taking place in this parliament, in this parliament building, outside, with armed people occupying this parliament. that's his model, not mine. i believe in democracy; i believe in constitutional legality. and if armed paramilitary people ever come near this parliament, burn it, rape it to impose their order, that is not my order nor is it the democratic order.
mr president, the situation in ukraine is very serious. we are witnessing the second part of a crisis triggered by russia, with the illegal annexation of crimea. i would like tomorrow's meeting in geneva to bring about a political solution which will make possible a dialogue between moscow and kiev in search of formulas which respect international law and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. if such a solution is not possible, if russia continues to destabilise ukraine, to prevent the elections on 25 may and perhaps also to open the way for its appropriation of the eastern part of the country, a reaction from the european union will be necessary, through more and stronger sanctions. the union will have to make a united effort, but it cannot remain indifferent to what is happening in ukraine, a neighbouring country whose sin has been simply to come closer to us. unfortunately, if russia persists in its attitude which is totally contrary to international law and the rules of conduct of the 21st century, our relations with that country will inevitably suffer a significant deterioration and be marked by a deep distrust which we thought was a thing of the past. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. as i said before, the european union cannot be indifferent to what is happening in ukraine, a neighbouring country, and europeans must certainly stand in solidarity with the ukrainians in the event of a worsening crisis.
in writing. - if mobility is one of the key objectives of the european union, it is logical to regulate the consequences of mobility. it is clear that the improvement of the conditions of acquisition and the preservation of supplementary pension rights for all those workers who have decided to make europe their field of work is logically justified. it is obvious that the social protection systems for workers are guaranteed by the member states through the relevant and applicable legislation, but it is equally true that coordination at european level is more than desirable so that the rights referred to for those workers who fall within the circumstances set out here are never reduced, guaranteeing their legal security.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report, although it represents a considerable improvement on the european commission's proposal, because it will not solve any of the serious problems caused by the inequalities between the players in the sector in europe. this proposal fails to address the real problems, since it includes measures which will involve excessive administrative burden, the burden of transport costs for carrying out the control, etc., all of which are very difficult for small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector to comply with. this will allow for an increase in concentration which will maintain unequal bargaining power between the ends of the chain. i therefore did not vote in favour of the report, although the commission's proposal is considerably better.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in the simplification of animal health legislation in the european union. there are almost 50 directives and more than 400 secondary legislation regulating the sector, and this body of legislation often hinders the operation of the sector. during its passage through parliament's various committees 785 amendments have been tabled, allowing for a plural wording that has introduced the sensibilities of most of the political groups. the dangers of irresponsible use of veterinary medicines, control systems, etc. are positively addressed. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it uses plant health control as an excuse to increase the administrative costs for small and mediumsized farmers in importing plants and seeds while maintaining this possibility for agribusinesses. this report regulates the import of plants and seeds into the european union to avoid the risk of plant pests from third countries. it assumes that the obligation to carry out plant health checks and risk control on all plant imports into the eu will generate unacceptable costs for small producers and a new impetus for large companies in the sector. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward towards a regulation which will allow european consumers to have access to safe consumer products. the report proposes an amendment to the legislation requiring economic operators to comply with active control measures for any product placed on the eu market. this raises costs and increases the liability of economic operators for any risks to which consumers are exposed. the report extends the scope of this regulation to professional equipment, services, products sold through online sales, etc. all these changes to the rules will make it possible to operate a safer market and to introduce more controls to prevent abuse by companies. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a considerable advance in market surveillance in the many dimensions which require it. the report introduces the application of the regulation not only to the health and safety surveillance of products but also to the need to monitor the implementation of environmental legislation. the report extends the scope of market surveillance both at the level of supply chain segments and at the level of actors, allowing for the participation of consumers in such surveillance, and argues for a necessary increase in the rights of consumers to submit complaints in their activity as market surveillance officers. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because of the improvement it brings to consumers.
in writing. - i voted against this report, although it contains some positive measures, because it represents a further step in the attempt to legitimize the financial markets which have been at the origin of the crisis which is afflicting the continent. it includes extremely urgent measures such as the prohibition and introduction of limits on investment in food by hedge funds, as well as the imposition of limits on high-frequency trading which stimulates the speculative capacity of many investment funds. in our view, these are superfluous restrictions which will have little effect on the sector and which do not in any way impose the necessary restrictions on the capital markets which have caused the collapse of the real economy in europe. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. - i voted against this report, although it contains some positive measures, because it represents a further step in the attempt to legitimize the financial markets which have been at the origin of the crisis which is afflicting the continent. it includes extremely urgent measures such as the prohibition and introduction of limits on investment in food by hedge funds, as well as the imposition of limits on high-frequency trading which stimulates speculative capacity. beyond the superficiality of the limitations, the previous directive was violated in spain for more than 10 years without any control by the commission on the capital markets, which have caused the collapse of the real economy in europe. it is because i cannot believe in its legitimacy or its effectiveness that i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. - i abstain because the interinstitutional agreement does not adequately address the problem of tax evasion.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, despite the fact that it contains points which suggest an improvement in the regulation of central securities depositories, it continues to rely on private property and on the promotion of the functioning of the financial market. these csds have been entities initially created by the central banks of the states that were privatized in most cases. these are technical instruments which enable the stock market to function and which have not had an impact during the economic crisis. this report seeks to improve their control and coordination; however, they are instruments which, through their nationalisation, could allow greater control and the imposition of conditions on the financial sector. i could not vote for this report because it is kept private.
in writing. - as a socialist rapporteur i support the regulation on the improvement of securities settlement and central securities depositories. it is the first union legislation in this area, in line with the principles adopted in the framework of iosco and the g20 commitments in the financial services sector. csds are key infrastructures in the post-trade process and are systemically important. reliability in the functioning of the european securities market is essential to ensure that any investor can invest in securities of the union, the continuity of transactions and their successful completion. csds should contribute to the stability of markets, operate with consistent standards and ensure accessible and non-discriminatory conditions. subject to authorisation and supervision, they will be recorded in a european register; there is an authorisation and designation process for the provision of banking-type ancillary services. the regulation establishes control procedures for activities such as outsourcing services, providing new services, using another central bank as a settlement agent or creating a connection between csds that involve risk transfer. at the same time it strengthens the powers of national supervisors and esma.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an appropriate technical adaptation of this type of pressure equipment to the various standards relating to it in order to be able to be marketed in the european union. this report is technical in nature, since it sets out a common framework for the marketing of such equipment among all eu member states. the legislation of the various states had led to divergent approaches and therefore an amendment was necessary to ensure similar treatment in this type of equipment among all the industrial sectors which produce them. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it is a technical report which improves safety.
in writing. - the labour force survey is the most important and well-known survey in europe. it collects data on employment, unemployment and people outside the labour market. the report aims to align the commission's powers with articles 290 and 291 tfeu concerning delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the labour force survey in view of the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. due to the provisions contained in that treaty, the powers conferred on the european commission should be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty. this report adapts the statistical operation to the new union system, allowing member states to develop it in their respective territories and then send the results to eurostat to centralize the information and provide the results of all member states. it is a technical report which applies the existing legislation and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a technical report which seeks to secure adequate funding for the european maritime safety agency. the recently adopted multiannual financial framework should adjust the funding for this eu agency, but this funding cannot be the same because the competences of esma have grown significantly due to recent regulatory changes in the field. the agency now has competence in the field of combating pollution from ships and pollution from oil and gas installations. this increase in powers must be accompanied by an increase in the funds available, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - unemployment is one of the greatest social challenges facing europe today. in july 2013 the unemployment rate in the eu as a whole stood at 11[nbsp ]% and exceeded 20[nbsp ]% in some member states. to remedy this situation, the report sets out objectives such as equipping enterprises - and in particular smes and micro-enterprises - with the knowledge and know-how to access eu aid, encouraging entrepreneurship from an early age and addressing the shortage of qualified staff.
in writing. - i voted against. this report does not set up real bases to create good and stable employement. the overall tone of the report is ‘less regulation is good for employmentʼ. it encourages taking advantage of the crisis to lower job standards. even if the text has acceptable elements – better support for smes especially as regards market access and finance, unfair tax competition, support for entrepreneurs and especially young entrepreneurs, need for training, skills shortage, cooperatives and the social economy – it also has lots of problematic points, such as: education has to serve labour market needs, legislation may not hinder business by any means, attacks on agreements between social partners, retention of older workers on the labour market, more jobs would be created with less of a regulatory burden, etc.
in writing. - the report sets two objectives: to provide young people with a quality education and at the same time to address the availability of digital infrastructures throughout the european union. the report calls for the use of eu programmes and cooperation between member states and regions, highlighting as concrete measures the increased recognition of qualifications acquired online and support for teachers' acquisition of cyber skills, the promotion of open access to publicly funded educational materials, the improvement of broadband connectivity and ict equipment in the classroom.
in writing. - as rapporteur for the s&d group i supported the european parliament's favourable recommendation on the new eu-seychelles fisheries protocol which has been provisionally applied since 18 january 2014 and affects 750 jobs in the eu. the protocol, which is key to maintaining our presence in the indian ocean, is balanced and beneficial to both sides. the financial contribution and the activity of the union fleet are an important source of revenue and a driver for employment, fishing activity and the development of the local economy. the financial contribution has been slightly reduced compared with the previous protocol, due to the fall in the reference tonnage (from 52 000 to 50 000 tonnes per year) and the reduction in fishing opportunities from 48 to 40 cerqueros (22 spanish, 16 french and 2 italian) and from 12 to 6 longliners (2 for each of these countries). the use of the previous protocol was reduced by piracy, a problem largely solved, although exceptional clauses are provided for. the protocol is extended from three to six years, offering greater stability and security to the sector; it guarantees control, scientific cooperation and the embarkation of observers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and similar reports on the canary islands and the french overseas departments, which are a temporary extension of the present situation. these are technical reports for which i have been a shadow rapporteur. we have tried to include an assessment of the impact of these tax cuts on the local economy, but we have not succeeded.
in writing. - i voted against, both because of the discrepancy with the specific amendments which seek to limit the freedom of members and also because i am critical of the way the house works, which is not being corrected now and does not seem to be in the future: voting lists which arrive a few hours before voting, arbitrariness in the classification of what are nominal votes and even their inclusion on the spot in the same voting round in breach of the rules of procedure, the admission of amendments and more amendments which involve hours of voting on matters which should have been resolved in the specialised committees, etc. the next legislature should reflect on all this.
in writing. - the proposal aims to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise level of european union airports within the international framework established by approach already provided by the international civil aviation organisation. the report provides measures such as reducing aircraft noise at source, land use planning and management measures, proceeding through noise abatement operational procedures and increased use of operating restrictions.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, under the pretext of modernisation and adaptation to new technologies, a regulatory framework is concealed which allows the dismantling of the education systems of the member states in the interests of economic efficiency. this report, which includes points that obviously need to be addressed by education systems, relating to the inclusion and learning of information and knowledge technologies, makes obscene claims about the project of education systems for the eu. the report argues that icts should be used for "reducing bureaucratic structure", "reducing public and private costs in education" and even "education should be geared to meet the needs of the labour market". in view of a report of this kind, i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made and the improvements proposed in this directive. however, i voted against because i believe that in times of crisis such as the present one we must be ambitious and make the most of the protection of workers.
in writing. - i think the report is a major step towards reducing the use of plastic bags. the report proposes clear targets at european level, such as reducing single-use plastic bags by 50% in three years and by 80% in five years. biodegradable bags have also been included in the report. it is also demanded that bags used in the food sector must be compulsorily charged and it is strongly recommended that the same should be done in other sectors.
in writing. - the representativeness and backbone of so-called civil society via specific structures such as political parties, or even foundations, must have clear rules on the funding systems they need to carry out their actions. the need for transparency and procedures to clarify the system of access to public grants will thus be established in a legal framework which is beginning to obviate the differences between the different member states. the new rules will make it easier to generate own resources by setting limits on donations and at the same time laying down the corresponding penalties if the rules are not followed. it is necessary to establish corrective measures and to prevent the misuse of european union funds. european values will be a sine qua non for political parties wishing to acquire legal capacity to qualify for the funds and subsidies that may be granted.
in writing. - i voted in favour, even though i would have wanted to delete what i believe is a clear unjustified disqualification of president schulz's conduct in paragraph 49, and i would also have deleted part of paragraph 61.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by anne e. jensen and jean-luc dehaene, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft council decision on the system of own resources of the european union (05602/2014 - c7-0036/2014 - 2011/0183 ((cns)) (a7-0271/2014), - report by anne e. jensen and jean-luc dehaene, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the measures implementing the system of own resources of the european union (2014/2020 ((ini)) (a7-0270/2014), - recommendation by anne e. jensen and jean-luc dehaene, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft council regulation (eu, euratom) laying down measures for the implementation of the system of own resources of the european union (05600/2014 - c7-0047/2014 - 2011/0184 (a7-0037/2014 ((cns)) (a7-0261/2014), and on the draft council regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2014 laying down the rules for the application of regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2014 (a7-02644)), - report by anne e. jensen, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1268/2012 (a7-05-05-05-05-05-06) and the draft council regulation (cns) laying down the rules for the implementation of the system of own resources of the european union (05600/2014), on the draft council) (c7-0047-05-05-05-06-06-06-07 - report by anne epp) and the draft council, on the drafting down the draft council, on the drafting of measures implementing of the system of the own resources of the we shall therefore enter the joint debate and, first of all, alain lamassoure has the floor. mr lamassoure, as you know, you have four minutes to speak, but i would like to inform you that since this is the last sitting i will be presiding over for 15 years, if you speak for five minutes i will not interrupt you, and if you speak for six minutes i will not interrupt you either. so take the time you need to make your statement to the overcrowded house in which we are. you don't mind talking all you want to talk.
thank you, mr lamassoure. i think it is a speech which should be shared by all members because it really introduces a fundamental subject and introduces it in a magnificent way. we shall now give the floor to mrs jensen, whom i would like to thank for her help in this matter, which was thorny at the time, and for the help she has always given us. without your participation it would have been much more difficult to move this project forward. mrs jensen, you have four minutes. you may speak as long as you feel necessary to explain your point of view.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, i would like first of all to thank both mr[nbsp ]lamassoure and ms[nbsp ]jensen for their very comprehensive presentation of this very important file and very important debate on own resources. i understand that the efforts of this parliament to change the own resources system has not yet given concrete results but i think the effort to have a more simple, transparent system of own resources will continue afterwards with the next parliament and the next commission. as you all know there was a proposal which was presented by the commission in 2011 which was linked to the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020. these proposals were examined by the council and the preparatory bodies of the council, in parallel with the mff and an agreement was reached at the european council meeting in february 2013 covering not only the expenditure side of the mff, but also its financing – the revenue side. it then took a few more months until the two institutions, parliament and the council, agreed on a common understanding of all elements related to the mff package: the new mff regulation, the new interinstitutional agreement, the different sectoral legislative proposals, and also a number of joint statements. one of these statements related to the very important issue of own resources and it acknowledged that further work is needed on this question. it was therefore agreed to create a high-level group on own resources which has recently started its work. the council welcomes the recent start of the work of this group and we are convinced that the group, under the chairmanship of mr[nbsp ]monti, will carry out excellent work. we fully support the work of the group and look forward with interest to the first assessment which should be available at the end of this year. over the next two years the group will undertake a general review of the own resources system which is, as it has already been said, very complex. on that basis the commission will assess whether new own resource initiatives are appropriate, which could then be taken into consideration by the commission when it prepares its proposals for the next multiannual financial framework. for the period 2014-2020, the council reached an agreement on a package of three legislative proposals in order to bring the system of own resources in line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty and the new mff. the council agreed to establish a regulation laying down implementing measures on the system of own resources, as foreseen in article[nbsp ]311 of the treaty, and it agreed on a limited number of modifications to the two existing elements of the own resources: the council decision on the system of own resources, and the council regulation on the methods and procedure for making available own resources and to meet cash requirements. the agreement reached in the council takes into account the conclusions of the european council of february 2013. they provide that the system of own resources of the european union will remain mainly unchanged for the period 2014-2020, with the exception of some modifications to the correction mechanisms in favour of certain member states, and a reduction in the share of costs retained by member states for the collection of traditional own resources. now it is parliamentʼs turn, as laid down in the treaty. parliament has been invited to consider the legislative package agreed by the council, and it has been asked to give its consent to the draft council regulation laying down implementing measures on the system of own resources – the new element which has been introduced by the treaty of lisbon. i would especially like to thank parliamentʼs rapporteurs, ms[nbsp ]jensen and mr[nbsp ]dehaene – whom i would also like to wish an early recovery – and mr[nbsp ]lamassoure for their professionalism and for their constructive approach during this last period which has made it possible to have this debate today. i very much look forward to this parliamentʼs adoption of the opinion and its consent to these various files so that they can be closed before the end of the current legislature. this would pave the way for the process of national ratification as is provided for in the treaty.
member of the commission. - mr president, what can i say, after such an excellent introduction by the rapporteurs? i would like to thank them for their pragmatic approach, making possible a final vote before the end of the mandate. this is an important piece of legislation. it is an important piece of the acquis communautaire, which therefore demands procedures – the unanimous decision of the council and then ratification by the national parliaments. this is the final part of the mff package, covering the same period of time. everybody knows that the commission had a different idea about modifying the revenue side of the european budget with simplification and a much more transparent way of correcting potential imbalances and suggested a new own-resources tool. this was suggested, but it was not the decision consented by the council. one more illustration: on monday we were discussing the lessons from mff and one more lesson is that normally the interests of the status quo are better defended than the interests of change. however, the report is critical only on substance and procedure and does not block the final vote. here we can see the pragmatic approach of anne jensen, alain lamassoure and jean-luc dehaene. as for the context: this is a basic act, a council decision on a system of own resources, defining own resources and the way to calculate and also correct them. the list of corrections is longer than it used to be in 2005 and 2006, but here we have the innovation of an implementing regulation based on article 311, paragraph 4, of the treaty, with some real substance, and also with parliament’s consent and majority voting in the council. so there is a little bit of innovation as to the legislative package, involving parliament in the procedure. the final part of the package is officially about the methods and procedures for making available traditional, vat and gni-based own resources and the measures to meet cash requirements. of course, in our slang, we call it making available a regulation codifying existing rules. this is not the end of our debate. at parliament’s insistence, as part of the compromise on mff, we have a high-level group on own resources with mario monti in the driving seat and with the involvement of mr kalfin and mr lamassoure. it was recently launched both officially and practically. we hope that we can discuss in a serious environment what went wrong, what lessons can be learned and how to make improvements in the future. as this is our final mile, i would like to thank anne jensen – who unfortunately, so i am told, will not be coming here again – jean-luc[nbsp ]dehaene, to whom i wish a speedy recovery, and alain lamassoure, who will hopefully be back in parliament in a couple of weeks. i would also like to thank the hellenic presidency, which drew on what was done under the lithuanian presidency, and finally i hope that parliament can now vote before the end of the mandate and the ratification procedure can start this year in the coming months. thank you for a pragmatic approach.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i would like to thank mr kalfin, mrs jensen and, in particular, mr dehaene, for their work, and we wish them a speedy recovery. he is a man of deep european feeling, of deep experience, and without his work we would not have been able to produce many of the crucial reports which the committee on budgets has produced this year. we are voting yes to these reports today, but as both the council and commissioner lewandowski are well aware, our final position does not fully express the annoyance and the feeling of frustration that this house has at the blockade, at the fact that we are unable to make progress on the question of own resources, especially when we had a proposal for amendment on own resources that came from commissioner lewandowski himself and that this parliament enthusiastically supported. i would like to say - and this is important in the run-up to the european elections - that we, as the european parliament, are not seeking an increase in the resources of the european union. we do not want european citizens to pay more taxes. what we want is to be fully responsible for spending and to be a parliament, a european union, institutions which have their own resources and have to manage them without the need for the member states to reach an agreement in a decision taken late at night. without that capacity for financial autonomy, the european union will not move forward because we will not be fully accountable for spending. i therefore hope that in the next legislature the high level group will be a success and that we will really have genuine european union resources.
member of the commission. - mr president, some farewells commence today, this evening, but ute, anne, jean, sidonia – her name, jędrzejewska, was as difficult to pronounce in the end as it was in the beginning – there is life after the parliament and your legacy remains. therefore, thank you on behalf of the commission. it is crystal clear here in the house that the adoption of the package on own resources is not the end of the debate. we are to start the real debate with the high-level group, to reflect on how to change the system and make it more transparent and fair, without increasing spending but just by relieving gni contributions, which could be of some value to many member states. one remark that is going beyond own resources: for me, being in a position to have known real oppression in my country – under the communist oppression – it was strange to listen to mr hartong, who was really presenting his country – the marvellous netherlands – as a non-sovereign country under oppression to be liberated in the future. i really do not wish mr hartong – this is really so far out of reality – i do not really wish him and his fantastic country to have a taste of real oppression, of real laws of sovereignty. this was almost insulting to the structure of freedom in the european union, where nobody is losing their national identity.
mr lewandowski, in general we members find it easier to read polish names than polish ones, perhaps because polish names remind us of football players with whom we are more familiar. but we shall also make an effort to pronounce the names of the members, as well as those of members from other countries to which we are not yet fully accustomed.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, i think the commissioner can be proud not only of the name, but also that he has contributed in the last five years to european integration. let me say that i agree and am glad that the major political groups of this parliament have acknowledged that the current system might not be perfect, but have also suggested voting in favour of the package that is in front of us. let me also underline that the european council took note of the commission’s proposal, of the commission’s suggestions on new vat-based own resources and also on the proposal for the financial transaction tax. these ideas were considered by the european council as premature and requiring further discussion, but this does not mean that these ideas have disappeared. one of the tasks of the high-level group is precisely to look at the own resources system. let me also say that i cannot agree with what has been said, that the eu system cannot be reformed. i think it is especially paradoxical to hear this argument from those who are blocking eu reform. i welcome the creation of the high-level group. we welcome it. we are looking forward to what it is going to produce in the next months and i hope that today’s debate and the vote tomorrow on own resources will cover the immediate future, the period 2014-2020, and let me recall the importance of putting the new legislation in place as soon as possible, in order to align the european union own resources system to the provisions of the lisbon treaty.
thank you so much, anne. i also want to say goodbye with great emotion, as i do of course with my friend jutta haug, with whom we have shared some other activities. the truth is that a debate like this, the richness of it, the sincerity of it, seems to me to be one of those that justify the importance of the european parliament. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 6 p.m. today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by rosa estaràs ferragut, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 establishing the european union solidarity fund (com (2013) 0522 - c7-0231/2013 - 2013/0248 (cod)) (a7-0078/2014).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you know that this is a fund which was set up in 2002 and is the most visible symbol of solidarity when a natural disaster strikes a member state, or even those states which are negotiating accession. before 2002 there was no instrument to mitigate the damage caused by a disaster, and after its entry into force, now 12 years ago, we were able to determine, on behalf of all the sectors, that it was an instrument that could be improved because during its period of validity it had had problems in its application, especially with regard to the agility and simplification of the fund and with regard to the possible expectations on the part of some regions about whether or not to access this fund. in 2005, the commission - and also parliament - tried unsuccessfully to amend the fund - precisely to achieve the fund's objectives of simplification and efficiency - but it was not well received and was eventually shelved. it is now, in 2014, that this change has been possible and has been undertaken almost unanimously. i hope that in the vote this afternoon the result will be as unanimous as possible. after a series of negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament itself, it has been substantially improved in several respects. you know that there was no problem with the issue of serious national natural disasters, it was very clear: anything up to 0.6% of gross national income was eligible for aid from the fund and an absolute amount. but where there were real problems was in regional disasters - which account for two thirds of this fund - because, until now, the regulation was very unclear, in the sense that it spoke of all those disasters which generate serious and lasting repercussions on living conditions and economic stability in the region. these concepts were very vague and we have therefore modified them to include all disasters which represent or exceed 1.5% of the gross domestic product of the region and, in the case of the outermost regions, 1%. this was a request from all the regions, because this way false expectations are not created and it will be known at the first minute when a region can submit the project or not. another issue that was also on the table was the issue of the fund's agility. advances were requested: in short, that the regions could collect at the moment of the catastrophe - this is very important: immediacy - a whole series of advances. and, after a whole series of technical hurdles, these advances have been made a reality: up to 30 million euros and 10% of the budget. another issue was the time-limits: there was a 10-week deadline for member states to present the project to the regions. these 10 weeks were short and the deadline has been extended to 12 weeks as a supplementary period so that the documentation needed in the supplementary period can be submitted. the deadline for justifying these funds has also been extended: up to now there was a deadline of 12 months, but it has been extended to 18 months - a year and a half - because this was also better for the regions, and a new deadline has been set: within six weeks, the commission has to answer to the member state or the region whether it will be able to receive this aid or not. finally, long-term disasters such as floods or droughts will also be covered by the fund, and the time limits will start to run from the last day of the disaster. and, in conclusion, i must say that the goodwill of all has been counted on. i think the fund will be greatly expanded and it is a great day because we believe it is the most visible image of solidarity. that is why we in this parliament have welcomed the adoption of the amendment to the fund after more than 12 years of operation.
member of the commission. - mr president, on behalf of my colleague johannes hahn who cannot be with us today, many thanks to the rapporteur ms[nbsp ]estaràs ferragut, and to the chair of the committee on regional development, ms[nbsp ]hübner. the compromise was reached and then unanimously adopted in the regional development committee which is a signal that this was quite a good deal. this is a final vote on a long procedure. the procedure considering how to amend the european union solidarity fund started with our proposal in 2005. however, in the reality of today’s europe, this was probably too ambitious a proposal but i can agree anyway that the solidarity fund is needed, is a must. it is making europe visible. since 2002 when the solidarity fund was born as a reaction to the floods in germany and austria, we have approved 56 applications, paying financial aid and financial compensation of eur[nbsp ]3.5 billion to 23 countries. but, on the other hand, experience says it was very slow to mobilise, provoking frustration. indeed emergency aid reserves, the mobilisation of money vis-à-vis countries beyond the european union, were quicker than mobilisation of the solidarity fund within the european union. corrections were needed therefore and there are some positive corrections as enumerated by the rapporteur: a 10% advance payment shortly after application by a member state; clear, simpler criteria than a single threshold. also, i think, more understandable now and much simpler preparatory procedures for assessing, and also provisions for longer-lasting disasters and for outermost regions. however, the lesson from the past is also that we should focus on prevention and not just compensation. i flew in a helicopter over saxony-anhalt last year and this was a clear conclusion: that part of the structural funding should also be for prevention and not just for compensation. thank you again for the good spirit of cooperation. it could launch the solidarity fund for the new generation in june. by the way, mr president, i know i have a surname that is very familiar in football to the fans of real madrid but they were taking severe revenge this year against borussia dortmund for the fiasco last year!
before i leave the chair of my friend mrs podimata, i would also like to make a 'micro-parenthesis' to tell you that, as has been the case with other members all week, i too will be getting off at the next station and that this is my last minute as president of parliament - i am very glad, by the way, that it is a fellow citizen of mine who is presenting an important report at this moment. i want to tell you that two legislatures are very long: it has meant chairing hundreds of sessions and, of course, it has been a fascinating part of the work that one does, because it is a privilege to be able to do so. the truth is that when you try to preside in a rigorous way - in terms of timing and other aspects - it might not seem to be the best mechanism for making many friends, because it means cutting off many speaking shifts, it means not giving the floor to those who have asked for it or to many who have asked for it under the procedure of 'hunting the president's eye'. but it's not true. i have seen that after so many years as president, you really do make a lot of friends and get to know a lot of members better than you would otherwise have if we had been in the same committee or the same group. i would like to thank everyone for their understanding and cooperation and also, of course, to apologize to those whom i may have offended at some point precisely because i exercised the presidency with the rigor that it should and does require. thank you all so much. and now the chairman is anni podimata, who will do better than me. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, this is my last speech in this house and i am pleased to do so to celebrate that after several months an agreement has been reached between the council and parliament. i would like to congratulate mrs estaràs in particular on her good work. since its creation in 2002, the fund has provided financial assistance to alleviate the damage caused by 56 disasters, such as floods, forest fires, earthquakes, storms and droughts. the new proposal aims to improve the operation of the fund by making it more flexible, increasing the efficiency and speed of administrative procedures and introducing the possibility of requesting advance payments. it also enhances its image and awareness in order to improve the credibility of the european union in the eyes of its citizens. we must work on prevention, without a doubt. in times of austerity, the solidarity fund represents the europe of solidarity by offering an urgent response to alleviate the loss and suffering of citizens facing a critical situation. in the face of europe's enemies, we europeans must do more to educate and strengthen the europe of solidarity.
member of the commission. - madam president, very briefly, the european solidarity fund deserves its name. services affecting solidarity should be more operational under the new regulation. it was created as a tool to react to the unpredictable, although we now know that what was seen as unpredictable is really quite predictable, as we have a constant and regular repertoire of floods in central europe and fires in the south. so it is good to send a message before the elections that we have an improved tool to react in the name of european solidarity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also want to thank my colleagues in the european parliament, all the groups and all those who have spoken, because an agreement has been made possible which is good for europe, for the citizens, for the people. i would like to say that in addition to all that has been said here, i would like to stress prevention. it is true that, at the initiative of the green group, the text has strengthened the provisions on prevention, and even made it possible for the fund to cover the movement of such infrastructure when a disaster occurs and infrastructure has to be moved because of the need for prevention. i would also like to mention that the fund will, in very exceptional and strictly regulated cases, cover the possibility that all technical aspects can be addressed with up to 2% of the fund. it is true that the fund must of course be directed at people and return to normalcy, but there were many regions who asked, in the words of the committee of the regions itself, for the possibility that, in very exceptional cases, the technical part could be addressed. it is therefore worth saying that the negotiations were good, that we are very happy, that the fund has been simplified - as you said - in the case of regional disasters, has been streamlined, for example in the matter of advances, and has been made somewhat more flexible. it is the instrument of solidarity, as we have said here in many speeches, and i therefore think that today is a great day. now, in the coming years and in the coming legislatures - when we can tackle this task and the economic crisis has faded - we must try to increase the fund's budget to reach more corners, if possible.
madam president, we have come here to talk about the lack of 150 million euros, but what i really have to say is that for the last few months we have been telling thousands of people to forgive the lack of means, to forgive the lack of water, to forgive the lack of medicine, of shelter, to forgive the lack of humanitarian aid. and this time we can point the finger, we can say out loud the names of those who have forced the european union to apologize for not carrying out its humanitarian work. and those are the 28 members of the council. the presidents of spain, germany, the united kingdom... and so on, up to 28 guilty parties. and i would like to say that this parliament will not allow the council to continue to write blank cheques for syria, haiti or the central african republic, because every day that this aid has not been provided hundreds of men, women and children have died. we support this advance of 150 million euros, but i would like to draw attention to the fact that the gap is 450 million euros. and i would like to know what the council is going to do to ensure that russian roulette is not played with the lives of those suffering under war and famine, which this parliament will not allow.
member of the commission. - madam president, i will again be brief. we are facing shortages across the budget as a whole, of course. 2014 is going to be difficult in management, because we have eur[nbsp ]9 billion less than was available in 2013. the needs of the areas of both humanitarian aid and crisis management are very well identified. this is, of course, not about billions; it is about millions, and this is my promise. we have to exploit all the possibilities – all the tools available under the treaty and the financial regulation, all creativity and redeployments, and internal transfers – of reacting. but i can say that, without fresh money, it is not possible to pay all the bills which are eligible internally and externally and to be up to the credibility of the european union when it comes to crisis management and humanitarian aid, which is really lifesaving action. so that is my promise: to do everything possible but without fresh money, which should come with the new mandate of parliament, that is hardly feasible.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, the council considers that it is important to meet the european union’s budgetary needs, particularly in the area of humanitarian aid. we are committed to supporting this important policy under heading 4 of the multiannual financial framework. it is up to the commission, as we have just heard, to manage the budget within the overall appropriations approved by the budgetary authority and to ensure effective implementation of the eu budget, making use of all possibilities of reallocation if necessary. i can assure you that, in order to cover clearly justified and urgent additional needs, the council is ready to look into all financing possibilities available if the commission proposes to use them. in other words, the commitment and payment appropriations included in the annual budget for 2014, adopted in november 2013 jointly by parliament and the council, must be the guiding framework for the commission. at the same time, and in line with the budget guidelines adopted by the ecofin council on 18[nbsp ]february[nbsp ]2014, the council expects the commission to adopt a prudent approach when implementing the 2014 eu budget. if additional unforeseen needs arise which cannot be covered through internal transfers within the available means (as the commissioner just mentioned), the commission can present a draft amending budget to both arms of the budgetary authority. as already stated before, the council has committed itself to examining any such draft amending budget without delay. in such a situation the council will duly analyse the shortage of payment appropriations identified by the commission in the 2014 budget for all eu programmes, external aid included.
mr president, i would like to have a few more minutes, because many colleagues are still arriving. there are 501 voters, we're a lot more in the room.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to draw your attention to a declaration made on behalf of the commission concerning the daerden report on enhanced cooperation between public employment services (pes) with regard to their participation in the pes network. if you allow, and this is my timesaving proposal, i would like also to draw your attention to the fact that four other declarations on behalf of the commission were made with regard to the agreement reached between the co-legislators on the following legislative files on the agenda today: the mcavan report on the european medicines agency; the romeva i rueda report on the recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean; the cadec report on the european maritime and fisheries fund; and the gál report on the european police college. all the commission statements will be transmitted to parliamentʼs services in writing and attached to the minutes of this plenary sitting for your consideration.
eider gardiazabal, whose report we have just approved in such a broad way, is not among us because she became the mother, two days ago, of a beautiful child. i would like to congratulate you on the work you have done and to express our congratulations to you from this house. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an appropriate technical adaptation of this type of marine equipment to the various international standards relating to it. this report is technical in nature, since it deals with the harmonization of the different standards for this type of equipment between all the member states of the european union. the report introduces standards for the environmental impact and prevention of marine pollution of such marine equipment, as well as the safety requirements and tests applied to allow such equipment to move through eu member states without compromising those standards. as this is a technical report which improves safety, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - the tasks and functioning of public employment services have changed in the context of the economic crisis and the associated unemployment, but also because of the transformation of national labour markets, technological development, changing labour needs and the evolution of professional careers. the main objective of the report is to strengthen cooperation between these public employment services in the member states. services that public employment services will provide to employees and employers include provision of labour market information, help in finding employment, career guidance and counselling, and placement and assistance for occupational and geographical mobility.
in writing. - as the author of the european parliament's report, i would like to express my satisfaction at the widespread support for the proposed change in the rules which will mean that the eu's response to the victims of natural disasters in the eu will now be better and more flexible, clarifying its application and the use of this aid for regional disasters. the main breakthrough of this reform is to have a faster, clearer and easier to use solidarity fund, while also encouraging countries to step up their efforts in disaster prevention and management. this european instrument is one of the most satisfactory to european citizens and its existence has never been in question in itself, but its reform was necessary because it was in question because of its lack of agility and its slowness. the legislative proposal simplifies the existing rules so that aid is paid out more quickly, introduces the possibility for early payments for the first time and clarifies who and what will be eligible.
in writing. - this new instrument adopted goes beyond the classic interests of the topics of whether the european union is only talking about the 'europe of the merchants', and of a europe only concerned and even governed by the markets. the european union is not only a great example of solidarity in the face of a disaster that could affect any member state, but it also has a much more effective regulatory procedure, which is certainly of no discernible value. the possibility of advancing payments of up to 10% of the aid needed is even allowed. the effectiveness of the approved system, together with the speed of its implementation, together with the transparency of the clarity with which this fund has been established, will give an appropriate response to any emergencies such as the central european floods or other possible emergencies such as forest fires, terrible earthquakes, or droughts and storms.
in writing. - the report follows on from the judgment of the court of justice of the european union in the bablok case on the pollen situation in relation to honey. the report states that pollen is not an ingredient in honey but a natural component of it. this has practical implications in various areas such as european labelling or the supervision and authorisation of the requirements for honey, which the report seeks to address by harmonizing legislation in this area.
in writing. - i voted against because the report proposes as a result of trilogue negotiations that honey with gmo-pollen will not need to be labelled.
in writing. - my position has been to find a consensus solution between the thesis of the european commission and that of the court of justice. i cannot, however, endorse the interinstitutional agreement adopted in march, as it does not contain the reference to consumer protection (necessity to indicate the percentage of pollen contained in honey) nor does it warn about the need to take measures to deal with the existing problem of coexistence of crops and to apply the legislation in force.
mr president, it is a real pleasure for the spanish socialist delegation to be able to vote in favour of the european maritime and fisheries fund, as it has done, because we have achieved the objectives that have been adopted in these two years and which benefit not only industrial fishing but also small-scale coastal fishing, the men and women who live from their daily work in fishing, the shellfishermen, the young people who will have a new opportunity for training, for training, for being able to give continuity to this important sector, and above all to many regions and peoples of europe who without the help of this fund would really not be able to survive. they could not maintain their fishing, their traditions, their cuisine, their culture. hundreds of families, thousands of people in spain would be in danger of losing their jobs and their way of life if this fund were not approved. i am therefore pleased and congratulate the european parliament on having reached this agreement.
in writing. - support for the new emff, the last element of the reform of the cfp, for the effective implementation of which it has more than eur 6.5 billion in the period 2014-2020. the interinstitutional agreement was not reached as planned last december and, following the negotiations, it finally includes aid to the fleet for temporary cessation in cases of termination or non-renewal of a fishing agreement with a third country where emergency measures are necessary or are provided for in management or multiannual plans. it also provides for support for the permanent cessation until 31 december 2017 (with a payment period until 2019) when an imbalance between fishing opportunities and capacity is demonstrated. the new fund focuses on people and communities dependent on fishing: it will enable an action plan for small-scale and coastal fishing, support aquaculture and establish a network of recovery areas, promote diversification of activities, the promotion of the role of women and generational change by supporting youth, and promote a quality sector based on training, innovation and research, and respond to natural disasters and climate adversity.
mr president, just over a week ago the court of justice of the european union declared the 2006 data retention directive to be incompatible with european law. and i immediately said, as a jurist, as the chairman of the european parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, that this was great news for 500 million europeans. it is for legal reasons, but also and above all for political, social and democratic reasons. for legal reasons, because the court of justice has delivered an exemplary and enlightening judgment, in which it affirms its commitment to rights and to the europe of law and rights and freedoms. and it clearly states that, if there are no criteria of proportionality and necessity to justify intervention in data retention, the accumulation or mass intervention of data 'just in case', is simply incompatible with the foundations of the european union. this is because the court of justice is also applying the charter of fundamental rights of the european union as a criterion for the validity of secondary legislation of the european union. it is therefore asserting its own role as the constitutional court of the european union, committed to the fundamental rights of europeans. so from the point of view of its commitment to the rights and freedoms of europeans, it is great news, but it is great news above all from the political, social and democratic point of view, because the court is clearly saying that those who want to reduce the european union to an endless discussion on the governance of the euro, on the internal market, on the financial crisis, those who want to reduce it to a purely monetary and, at best, economic union, must know that this union is also about the rights and freedoms of citizens and that therefore the european union cares about and reinforces the rights and freedoms of citizens. it is essential to know, however, that before the elections on 25 may, we have a task to do to better ensure and guarantee the rights of europeans, the privacy and confidentiality of their communications. it is a task which concerns not only the member states but also this european parliament as the legislator, finally, of fundamental rights... (the president withdrew the floor)
member of the commission. - mr president, on behalf of vice-president almunia i would like to thank mr schwab for the work he has done and also mr rapkay and the chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, ms bowles, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs and everybody who has been involved in this very important directive and the constructive approach that you have all had. following the very fruitful cooperation of all the three institutions, the commission believes that we have achieved a very satisfying result. we especially welcome that we can adopt this today at the very last moment before you all go campaigning. i would like to underline the importance of the directive. it has been described by the press as the most important development in competition policy of the last years and as a democratisation of the competition law enforcement. when vice-president almunia was before you in his hearing four years ago, he promised that parliament would be fully involved in this file as co-legislator. as a consequence, today we bring this file negotiated under the ordinary legislative procedure to a successful end. more than 10 years ago the court of justice first recognised that any victim of anti-trust infringement had a right to compensation. but that was difficult to achieve in practice. in recent years we have seen very few actions and many of them have failed because of inadequate legal frameworks. consumers and small companies, especially, have found it difficult to obtain compensation for the harm they suffered. this directive is thus of utmost importance. it enables citizens and businesses harmed by anti-trust infringements to effectively exercise the right to compensation that the eu is granting them. the directive includes rules that remove the current obstacles. it gives victims better access to the evidence they need to prove their claims and it ensures that victims can overcome the burden of providing a competition law infringement. one way to do this is by allowing victims to use the infringement decisions of competition authorities in their own claims. in parallel, the directive also clarifies the relationship between public and private enforcement of eu competition laws, in particular when it comes to accessing documents that are in the possession of a competition authority. the text that you will be voting tomorrow preserves a company’s incentives to cooperate with competition authorities through leniency programmes and settlement procedures. defending the effectiveness of competition authorities is good news for the victims of anti-trust infringements. the more decisions are taken, the easier it will be for the victims to claim damages. the commission believes that the text has reached an excellent balance. on the one hand, it will be easier for victims to exercise the right to compensation. on the other hand, it ensures the continued effectiveness of the public enforcement of competition law by europe’s competition authorities, and for this i wish to deeply thank you all.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, as rapporteur for the green paper on private actions for damages for infringements of competition law, i secured the adoption of a parliament resolution seven years ago, and having represented my group as rapporteur in all resolutions on the subject since then, i am pleased that we finally have a legislative initiative and that agreement has been reached in a three-way dialogue. i would like to congratulate mr schwab, mr rapkay and all the rapporteurs who have helped me to achieve this. the directive will strengthen the protection of the rights of european citizens and increase security in the internal market. it is a milestone in the union's competition policy - an integral part of the european union's dna since the treaty of rome - and makes it more effective, fairer and more democratic. more effective, because, alongside the pillar of public actions taken by the competent authorities, it places a pillar of private actions in the judicial field which will have a deterrent character incentivising compliance with the rules and a guaranteeing character ensuring that imbalances are restored in the event of non-compliance. more fair, because whereas the union's competition policy has so far focused on prosecuting offenders by putting an end to unlawful conduct and imposing penalties, it will now also be geared to protecting victims by ensuring that they obtain compensation for the damage suffered. it is also more democratic, since it is the first time that parliament has intervened as a legislator in an initiative aimed at the effectiveness of competition policy. this fulfils the commitment made by commissioner joaquín almunia to the committee on economic and monetary affairs during the hearing before his appointment. the democratic principle requires parliamentary intervention in those matters which are closely related to the right to judicial protection, especially in order to give effect to all the fundamental rights of european citizens. the directive promotes competition and not litigation. it seeks solutions that avoid excesses and uncertainties and always favours the extrajudicial settlement of disputes. the principle of the right to compensation is part of the recognised principle of the right to claim and obtain compensation, but at the same time it provides that the right to compensation does not imply overcompensation or recognition of punitive damages. the compromise reached ensures access to evidence and avoids overreach, ensuring that this power is not used inquisitively in an unjustified, arbitrary or indiscriminate manner. the public and private actions are articulated by providing for conditions of access to the files of the competition authorities, ensuring the value of the decisions of the competition authorities and providing that the payment of compensation resulting from an amicable settlement may be a mitigating factor in the setting of fines. the clemency programmes will not be undermined because clemency statements are protected under judicial control and, even if joint and several liability is provided for by the members of a cartel, there are special rules for clemency applicants and, under certain conditions, for small and medium-sized enterprises. balanced rules are established to address pass-on and the commission is mandated to prepare guidelines on how to estimate the pass-on share of cargo. finally, i would like to say that although the principles on class actions are not included - as we would have liked - to ensure public action in minor and diffuse damages, it is a positive initiative. this is my last speech after ten years in the european parliament. i would like to thank those who have given me the opportunity to work for the construction of europe during this time and those who have collaborated with me in this work. it has been a great satisfaction to be able to work towards building in europe an area of trust based on progress and solidarity.
in writing. - the report aims to establish a procedural framework for the establishment and implementation of maritime spatial plans and integrated coastal management strategies in the member states. this should contribute to the achievement of the union's current objectives, such as the security of the union's energy supply, the promotion of maritime transport, the promotion of sustainable fisheries and aquaculture, the conservation and protection of the environment or ensuring the resilience of marine and coastal areas to climate change.
in writing. - i voted against because i believe that it should have been possible to keep the increase in parliamentʼs estimates to below 2[nbsp ]%, instead of the proposed 2.2[nbsp ]%.
in writing. - the waste shipment regulation prohibits the export of hazardous waste from non-oecd countries. even if this regulation regulates the movement of waste within the eu and between the eu and third countries, the illegal movement of waste remains a major problem. the solution to the problem, beyond political will, requires more human and financial resources from the member states to make it difficult for operators to carry out this activity illegally. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - new psychotropic substances are increasingly emerging and being distributed throughout the eu. the commission therefore makes proposals for a faster system of prevention of new harmful substances and for a gradual approach to respond to the risks of these substances. despite this need, i cannot vote in favour of the report on the commission's proposal because psychotropic substances are primarily a public health problem and therefore commercial considerations should be left out of the equation, especially when the issue is closely linked to criminal legislation. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - this report by my colleague teresa jiménez-becerril has as its main objective that the provisions of criminal law relating to psychotropic substances cover the newest psychotropic substances, because, like many other drugs, these substances constitute a threat to society by altering the rational behaviour and common sense of citizens. these are substances that affect the functioning of the brain, causing symptoms such as alterations in consciousness, behaviour and cognition. the report highlights the need for a more active commitment by member states to effective prevention, including the need to provide detailed information on the supply of psychotropic substances, dismantled drug production facilities, drug supply offences, national retail prices for drugs and forensic analyses of drug seizures.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is intrinsically linked to the regulation which contains a problematic mechanism for determining the risk of new psychotropic substances and when they should be subject to market restrictions. the european commission is left free to criminalize new substances indirectly and thus shape national criminal legislation. and not just for substances that have been subject to permanent market restrictions because of severe risks, but for others as well. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report on the negotiations for a strategic partnership agreement with japan because i do not agree with some of the areas of proposed cooperation between the eu and japan, such as cooperation on global security issues, increasing cooperation on security-related projects in strategic regions such as the middle east, africa and central asia. in addition, greater cooperation is proposed in satellite navigation systems and energy, including the iter thermonuclear reactor. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted categorically against this resolution because it does not condemn what happened in ukraine, which is a coup d'état against the democratically elected president, promoted by the united states and the european union. on the contrary, it puts the whole burden of blame on russia. it is yet another hypocrisy for the eu to be concerned about the violence in ukraine now, when it has been the instigator of it. violence only breeds violence. that is why i voted against the joint resolution.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on the negotiations between the european union and vietnam for the conclusion of a free trade agreement because such agreements are never beneficial for the populations of the two partners, especially in this case for the vietnamese population. in my view, if the eu wants to establish relations with vietnam, it should do so not through a free trade agreement but through political dialogue, cooperation and, in any case, a trade agreement which is not free trade but fair trade, which is beneficial for both parties, which takes account of the asymmetries between them and which plays the role of complementarity. a free trade agreement is aimed at the benefit of european investors and large companies, thus destroying the productive fabric that vietnam may have. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution because amendments have been adopted which, in my view, indicate a deficient legislative technique: if it is understood that certain undertakings, because of their size or other circumstances, should be exempted from the application of specific rules, it is right to establish in those rules, for example in their additional provisions, the relevant exceptions and peculiarities.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, 150[nbsp ]000 fatalities; over 6.5 million internally displaced persons; over 2.6 million refugees; ethnic and religious minorities especially threatened; over 540[nbsp ]000 palestinian refugees; a disproportionately high number of refugee women and children; women and children suffering sexual assault and violence; since 2011, three million children who have dropped out of school and over 500[nbsp ]000 children not enrolled; killings of religious, kidnappings, etc. yes, this is the photograph of syria. and in the face of this, the uncompromising condemnation of the regime of bashar al-assad and of the extremist groups, the demand for compliance with international law, the unconditional support for the launching of a political process between all the parties, the protection of all the groups mentioned who are without resources, and the demand for justice for the crimes committed. conflicts like these show us, once again, that we must intervene with politics to prevent these catastrophes. words, dialogue and acceptance of plurality are the best antidote against tanks. my last words in this parliament, recalling with this photo another tragedy: the disappearance of a young basque man in the centre of antwerp: hodei. (the speaker continues to speak in basque)
mr. president, it is an honor to address you to present my candidacy for the presidency of this house. this parliament is called upon to represent the sovereignty of europe and we must, ladies and gentlemen, live up to what that means today. the european dream has been buried many times, but it has always managed to rise again. it is almost 70 years since europe was reawakened by the resistance of its peoples against fascism, by the survivors of the death camps, by those who gave their lives for justice and freedom. thousands of my compatriots who had fought to defend democracy in spain took part in that struggle and in that dream of justice. you can't imagine the pride i feel as a spaniard that the first tanks that entered to liberate paris were led by spanish fighters. today, when intolerance and xenophobia threaten us again, i want to reclaim the european memory of anti-fascism and that of all freedom-loving and democratic peoples. ladies and gentlemen, the best of our continent and of our common history was forged in revolutions that made the people the subject of rights, above kings, gods, nobles and great landowners. europe's greatest legacy is the will of its citizens to be free and not be the servants of anyone. not to be servants of anyone, your honours! that's what democracy is. that is why i must say to you today that the peoples to whom we owe our freedoms and social rights did not fight for a europe in which its people live in fear of poverty, exclusion, unemployment, helplessness in the face of disease. the expropriation of sovereignty and the subordination of the financial elites to the government threaten the present and the future of europe. they threaten our dignity; they threaten equality, freedom and fraternity; they threaten our life together. the creation of new supranational bodies does not have to be at the cost of incapacitating citizens. our peoples are not minors, nor are they colonies of any investment fund; they did not conquer or defend their freedom to hand it over to a financial oligarchy. these are not abstract terms, ladies and gentlemen: you are all well aware of the problem. it is scandalous how easily lobbies in the service of large corporations move around here, as well as the 'revolving doors' that turn representatives of the citizens into millionaires in the pay of large companies. you have to say it loud and clear. this way of working robs the people of their sovereignty, undermines democracy and casts political representatives into a caste. ladies and gentlemen, democracy in europe has fallen victim to an authoritarian drift. the situation on the periphery of europe is tragic: our countries have become almost protectorates, new colonies, where powers that no one has elected are destroying social rights and threatening the social and political cohesion of our societies. from latin america we learned that foreign debt is designed to be unpayable and that the countries that have grown the most did so with a substantial write-off and a public audit of their debt. everyone in this house knows about the debt forgiven to germany not so long ago. it is not just a question of justice: it is a question of european integration and democracy. debt is now a mechanism for command and plunder of the peoples of the south. that is what is happening in countries that some call pigs with marked racism. but i suppose you are aware that there is no europe without its peoples in the south, just as there is no europe without its peoples in the east, who are also subjected to the harsh conditions of the troika, whose course threatens to destroy the european project by leaving a trail of misery, poverty and violence. but there is another way, there is an alternative to the policies of impoverishment and the hijacking of sovereignty. this parliament, at this critical time for europe, must be up to the task. it must show sensitivity and become the epicentre of a democratic upheaval in the european union, a upheaval which will stop the authoritarian drift of the troika. this parliament must express the democratic legitimacy of origin that unites us all: the voice of the people, not the arrangements between elites. parliament cannot be a consolation prize or a golden pension. ladies and gentlemen, i am not addressing a house of five, six or seven parliamentary groups today. i'm not addressing party machines either. i am addressing you, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, because you have a contract of political responsibility signed with your peoples. i'm addressing the democrats and their consciences. our first allegiance, to which all others must be subordinate, is to the citizens who elected us. they are not in the corridors of this building, nor in the hotels surrounding this chamber, but remember, they are the sovereigns and sooner or later they will be held accountable for what has been done in their name. i also address my colleagues in the southern european countries in particular. you have seen the real consequences of the policies imposed by the troika. you know that austerity policies have failed: our countries are poorer today, with destroyed economies, with societies wounded by injustice and institutions marred by corruption and discredit. you know it's time to help our countries get back on their feet. i ask you, at least today, to vote as greeks, as irish, as portuguese, as italians, as czechs, as poles, as romanians, as spaniards. not only so that they can look people in the face when they go home, but because they will be defending europe. i ask you to vote, aware that many of you do not share this hijacking of democracy, knowing that many of you are sincerely committed to the welfare of your people. i ask you to vote to stop the grand coalition that imposes austerity and financial totalitarianism. i would like to address my final words to the citizens and peoples of southern europe who have taken to the streets in recent years to defend social justice and democracy. to the millions of people who have said 'enough' in the streets of europe, i want to say that you are the pride, the democratic heart of europe. the peoples of europe have been through worse and have shaken off despots. i do not know whether we will be able to wrest the presidency of this parliament from the grand coalition today, but if you keep pushing us, i assure you that we will win. tomorrow is ours.
mr president, i simply wanted to comment, in the face of mr van rompuy's generic reference to the problem of immigration as an objective of the european union, that... )
mr president, today is a time to celebrate that the european parliament is stronger, more relevant in the whole of the european institutions. the debate on the link between the heads of state and government and the result of the elections on 25 may has been long. there have been bold voices who have tried to ignore the message that the ballot box has brought to light, but in the end democracy has won, which is the same as saying that reason has triumphed. we shall see what juncker's programme is so that we can support him with our votes from the liberal ranks; we shall see whether he commits himself to a policy of growth and stimulus which will give strength to the economy, because the aim is clear: it is a question of making europe more efficient, more solid and more just. perhaps it would be a good idea to introduce a new feature into the regulatory practice of this parliament, namely that, alongside the debate which will be led by juncker, it should be possible for the chairman of the second largest group to explain to the house, on behalf of that group, a programme which would make clear to the european citizens a sound and well-founded alternative to government. we believe that this would be a lively and democratic way of looking at our problems and of finding suitable solutions.
mr president, the european council is proposing that we should discuss growth, immigration policy and climate policy in the coming years. okay, but what growth? we must have a growth which can solve the problem of the 26 million europeans who are unemployed, the problem of the young people of the middle generation who have no work and no prospects for the future, the problem of the 125 million europeans who are living in poverty, the problem of the many millions who are excluded. so growth is necessary, but also the recovery of the social model and the recovery of european solidarity. immigration policy? of course i will. but an immigration policy which, first of all, provides development and fair trade relations to the countries sending out migrants. then he can order the legal emigration that the european union needs. it must then respect human rights at all the frontiers of the union. and then to integrate all those citizens into the same situation as the citizens of origin. climate policy? what is it? i'm sure you do. but a climate policy that is sustainable. a climate policy that ensures the european union's energy supply. and energy supply means, first of all, efficiency, because there is no cleaner energy than that which is not consumed. and secondly, energy interconnection. it's a necessity and it's a geo-strategic decision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i know that the six months of your presidency of the european union are a very short period, almost symbolic. but we know that symbols are important and actions and attitudes even more so. during his presidency there will be a referendum on scottish independence and the catalan government wants to call a referendum so that the citizens can decide on their future, which may be independence or another political solution. now i have two questions: do you believe, as i do, that the democratic expression of the people is the basis, the absolute foundation, that the free will of the citizens is what legitimizes law and legality? what do you think you will say and do to ensure that the catalans can express themselves freely, peacefully and democratically on 9 november?
mr president, these are concrete answers and hopes. the concrete answers are job creation. hope is the change of an economic model and of growth that is exhausted, and that is producing a lot of injustice. you, mr president-in-office of the council, have given hope back to millions of italians. i ask you to do the same for millions of europeans. it is a matter of giving hope back to millions of europeans, through concrete policies and through a profound change in european policy. because, whatever the spokesman for the ppe group says, austerity at all costs is killing us. it is killing many european countries and millions of citizens who are looking to us to relax our rules - because there is room to do so - and create jobs and give workers back their rights, and give women freedom, and make it possible to really fight against a poverty that is real and that is at the corner of all our streets. that's what we need and that's why we need a president like you for this semester. but we need it all the time, because it is also the responsibility of the european council. you see, what we have to do is to make sure that those who want to break up europe lose and that those of us who still think that europe is the solution win. that is what we need in europe. that's why we need renzi, that's why we need him, that's why i wish him luck, auguri and coraggio. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? madam valenciano, i agree with much of what you have just said, but do you not find that the votes for the presidency of this house and the european commission are somewhat incompatible with an agreement with the conservatives?
the answer is 'blue card'. you see, mr iglesias, the rules of democracy say that it is important to build a system in this parliament that can work. we must build majorities in this house so that the voice of the citizens can be heard. this house has to work, and to make it work, we have to build majorities. we are prepared to talk to all the groups, but this majority has allowed this house to function by technical agreement. that is what europe needs. it also needs the european parliament to be heard, because the council needs to listen to the european parliament, and for that we have to build large majorities, mr iglesias.
mr president, president renzi said that a photograph of europe would be a photograph of boredom. i do not think it is boredom, but concern, because there are more than 25 million unemployed women and men, because we are facing increasing migratory pressure, because our economic growth is low, because our companies are facing increasing competition in global markets and losing competitiveness, and above all because, moreover, we have an environment in which many european citizens have lost confidence in the ability of politicians to offer effective solutions. the italian presidency therefore faces a great challenge: it is the first after the european elections, it has to respond to the concerns of the citizens, and the answers are not only beautiful speeches, but very important structural reforms. the european council has agreed on the priorities which should guide the european union over the next five years, and the italian presidency will have to move within those priorities. but i would like to know what the presidency will do in three particular areas. first, on the subject of immigration. what will italy do this semester to promote a renewed commitment to the countries facing the greatest migratory pressure and to ensure that the european union helps to make available to these states all the means necessary to protect the lives and fundamental rights of those who decide to leave everything behind to reach the territory of the european union? my second concern is what italy will do this semester, in a context where we have enormous political instability on the eastern and southern borders, to relaunch the mediterranean neighbourhood policy. and finally, on energy policy, what will the italian presidency do to ensure that the european council in october 2014 is able to take decisions on the strategic framework for energy and climate, decisions on energy security improvements and on interconnection targets for 2030? (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. yes, indeed, to combat immigration we must not only guarantee the protection of borders, but it is true that we must favour development policy in the countries of origin of immigration. it is clear that the european union has a responsibility to concentrate its development aid policy on these countries of origin of migration and on the countries of transit. but i also believe that the development of trade structures and a smart neighbourhood policy in the mediterranean, such as the one italy can promote, can bear good fruit, also with these countries.
mr president, i have listened to what mr renzi, the president-in-office of the council, has said about 'not underestimating the financial question' and 'on economic questions we will make our firmness heard'. i, that metaphysics, i accept it, but from metaphysics i pass to physics and from music i pass to the lyrics. and the point is concrete: in the crisis which we european citizens are still suffering, there is a definite responsibility for the blindness and paralysis for years of the european institutions - among them, the european commission - against the speculative financial flows, which are the antithesis of the productive economy. financial flows which, paradoxically, in many cases have their operational base in european union member states which are also the origin and base of numerous tax havens. and because i believe in a productive market economy serving the citizens and not the parasites, because the crisis was not an inevitable catastrophe but was the result of people's actions, my question is: what are you going to do to stop the speculative economy?
mr president, i think it is true that we cannot leave until the end of september without expressing our rejection of the situation of violence in the area and without sending a message that somehow pushes the parties to stop this violence. so my group would be in favour of a resolution if we were able to get that resolution to express a very common voice in parliament in favour of the efforts that other actors are making at the moment to stop the violence. in short, it should be a short resolution calling for a ceasefire and an end to violence on both sides and calling for a return to dialogue and respect for all those living in the area.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months and years the practice of torture by the security forces in spain has intensified. this is the conclusion drawn from the analysis of the crime of torture contained in the 2013 memo of the state attorney general, where he reports on the opening of 79 criminal proceedings in the whole of spain, most of which correspond to the basque country. two recent judgments have revealed the persistence and gravity of this crime: the judgment of the national court of justice of 14 may this year, which acquitted 36 basque youth accused of belonging to the terrorist organisation eta, among other reasons because of the invalidity of evidence obtained under torture - some were unjustifiably detained on a provisional basis - and the judgment of the provincial court of the balearic islands of 16 june this year, which convicted four civil guards for serious torture committed against two british citizens. it is very worrying that this is happening in the european union, which claims to be based, according to article 2 of the lisbon treaty, on respect for human dignity.
(the speaker opens his speech in valencian/catalan. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the trial of the neo-nazi group frente antisistema has begun in valencia. the group, with contacts in other european countries, was subjected to firearms and nazi propaganda, and one of its members had already been in prison for the murder of the young anti-fascist guillem agulló. the weapons, which constitute the fundamental evidence of the crime, have been destroyed by the civil guard. we're very concerned that this could impede a proper trial and avoid a conviction. we are very concerned about the rise of fascism and nazism in europe, a tentacled monster that has also crept into this house. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to unite against impunity, against fascism, for democracy and for europe, otherwise our continent may once again be bled as it was.
madam president, a new legislature is beginning, and it is obvious that it will not be easy. we are coming out of a huge crisis, which has served to question the policies of the european union, with great sacrifices, mainly from the citizens. we have a new parliament and we will soon have a new commission. i am calling today for a clear and loud commitment from both institutions to the outermost regions and, among them, to the canary islands. we are firmly committed to europe, but europe must also be committed to us. i speak from the canaries and on behalf of canarians from all sectors and all the islands. they all want to trust our institutions and hope that we are able to face the problems and give them a solution. there are still many unresolved issues: employment, posei, ref, transport, communications... and a new term begins. let us work together to make it a legislature of hope and to make the outermost regions truly an opportunity for europe.
(the speaker opens her speech in galician. i am from galicia, a people who make up the plurinational reality of the spanish state, a people who, like the rest of the peoples of the south, suffer from hunger, social exclusion and poverty. i would like one of the priorities of this parliament, in this legislature, to be the establishment of a universal basic income at the level of the european union and also full employment and a minimum wage that allows us to live with dignity from our work.
mr president, politics is not the art of the ideal, but the art of the possible. the european union has a duty to ensure that the ukrainian people are not subject to any form of repression. and security has two components: objective security - real security - and perceived security, which is subjective security. here we are talking about russia as if it were any other country; and reality - not idealism - dictates that we have to have special consideration for an extraordinarily important neighbour strategically, economically, militarily. i am surprised that we are absolutely logical, for example, in our response to the united states - which has shown extraordinary aggressiveness by violating fundamental rights in spying matters, which have been discovered on two occasions - and that we instead treat russia as if it were any other country. the moment we turn "idealism" into reality, we are violating reality. i therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary for us, in respect of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine, to have common sense in dealing with a fundamental question, which is our security vis-à-vis russia and russia's security vis-à-vis its own environment. let's have common sense.
mr president, in ukraine we need a ceasefire as soon as possible, to put an end to so much death and suffering. it is essential that russia - as has been said - should be seriously involved in the settlement of the conflict and exercise real influence over the separatist rebels, especially in donetsk. otherwise, a lot more lives will be lost in that city. the authorization of the federation council for the russian army to intervene on ukrainian soil has been revoked, but russia has much more to do. the border cannot remain open to arms trafficking and armed groups. effective measures must be taken. the dual path of threatening further sanctions and diplomatic dialogue with russia is inevitable. russia must cooperate more in solving a crisis which it has helped to trigger by inappropriate behaviour which is contrary to international law and the 21st century. i'm finished. i welcome the fact that the first triangular consultations on the impact of the eu-ukraine association agreement on russia took place last friday. commissioner füle has referred to these talks, but i would also like to see a greater presence and certainly greater visibility of the european union and the european external action service in the solution of the problem in the dialogue and negotiation forums, and i am referring to the two existing ones: the contact group and the so-called 'normandy format'. i would like to see more visibility for the european union.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, where to start? maybe looking to the right, to see whether there is still the same number of people as at the beginning, when they claimed that they were here just to express how much they care about ukraine. catherine ashton is in vienna. she is holding and participating in extremely important discussions about iranian nuclear programmes. it is a time-consuming programme. it is about an issue which poses a lot of important questions concerning european security. she would like to be here, but it is the success of those very important negotiations, with her personal participation, which has kept her from coming to this august body. a second short remark, before i make my two or three points: i have heard a lot of expressions about solidarity in this house and not only in this house but elsewhere. it is interesting how many different meanings we sometimes attribute to the word solidarity, but i think the most important meaning of the word solidarity is that we are not thinking only about ourselves but also about others who are in need of assistance and help. i will find a way to reply in a concrete and written way to one of the last questions here. another short reply refers to the terrible crime that has happened in odessa. other crimes are happening at the maidan in kiev and elsewhere. together with the secretary-general of the council of europe we have been discussing these issues for a long time and he had my and the eu’s full support when he called in december for the international advisory panel to be set up. this panel is being chaired by the former president of the european court of human rights. it has one member from the ukrainian government and one member from the ukrainian opposition. the panel is not there to investigate all those crimes, because that is ultimately up to the ukrainian authorities, but this panel is to oversee and make absolutely clear that, in pursuing that work, the ukrainian authorities are also pursuing european principles and standards when putting together the facts and drawing the necessary conclusions from them. i think it is also important to state, although i do not know whether i will change the minds of some of the honourable members, what happened and what did not happen at the end of february. what some now think of as a coup d’état was actually a sincere effort to stop the bloodshed that was going on in the streets of ukraine, as some of you might still remember. there was a plan that was also elaborated with us assistance, and russia also participated and contributed in an important way. it was president yanukovych who at that time decided not to deliver on the part that was his responsibility. he fled kiev and later also the country. it was not a different country in which mr poroshenko was elected president in the first round, and not just in a part of ukraine but throughout ukraine. many of you called for solutions rather than rhetoric. actually, in my opening statement, which was a little bit more than nine minutes long, i tried to provide you – on catherine ashton’s instructions – with not only as objective an assessment as possible, but also clearly defining what we believe are those important steps which need to be taken to bring a peaceful solution. let me not repeat it – i am on the record and my statement is at your disposal, if you are interested – but let me make three remarks, by way of a reaction to the number of arguments i have heard. i am czech. i was born in the czech republic. and i would not be standing here if this institution, this parliament and member states of the european union, were indifferent to the calls of my compatriots to join the european union. i would not be here if our choice to join the european union and also to join nato had been ignored by the very institutions we wanted to join. and it was not just for the sake of being a member of something – we had been a member of something for a long period of time before that – but because we believed in the values and principles of the organisation we wanted to be part of; because we believed that, if it had not been for the coup d’état in 1948, we would have been part of that europe since the end of the second world war. it is sad for me to see that the uk, which was one of the most active proponents of eu enlargement, as far as not only the czech republic but also other central european countries were concerned, now through its representatives in the european parliament voices a little bit different – let me be politically correct – opinion. let me make one more thing very clear. has our relationship with russia actually become a victim of our membership of the european union and nato? my answer is very clear: no. they are free of those emotions which relate back to 1968, and not only 1968. they are very pragmatic. we have never had such good and pragmatic relations with russia as we have had since joining the european union and nato. my second remark is about the importance of this institution and the discussions between one part of this house and the second part of this house about a number of important issues. i am going to talk about the bigger picture; but i am not going to talk about the bigger picture being defined by president putin saying in 2008 that ukraine is an artificial country or the very same president saying that the dissolution of the soviet union was the greatest catastrophe of the 20th century. i am going to define this bigger picture a bit differently because, whether you like it or not, whether or not you have a different opinion, whether february this year was a coup d’état or not, it is this parliament which will have to face the issue of the consequences of the crimea and its illegal annexation for european security. you will have to look at the issue of what has happened with the helsinki final act and to what next extent european security is still based on the principles we have been working on for decades. secondly, this house will have to tackle the issue of the relationship between the european union and the eurasian union, which is in the making. it is this bigger picture within which the issue we have been debating for almost two hours is taking place and there are some important decisions to be made, to focus on making sure that the regulatory framework between the eu and eurasian union is compatible, because here our responsibility and the responsibility of our partners working on the eurasian union is huge because if we fail on this one we might not recreate an iron curtain, but we might create a big trade and economic divide throughout the european continent. this house is also going to discuss the issue of the future of the eastern partnership, which from the very beginning was put together as a transparent, coherent and predictable policy vis-à-vis our partners, making sure that it does not offer a straightjacket, but a differentiated policy tailored to the different ambition of our partners. and it is about the ambitions of our partners, not the ambitions of some bureaucrats in brussels, as some of you might think. and whether you like it or not, you will have to tackle the issue of propaganda, the propaganda which, as i already said in the previous house, is essentially more dangerous than that which i know from the time of the cold war, because this one mobilises people, this one calls for mobilisation and it does not stop at what was yesterday the iron curtain. this one spreads throughout the european continent. point number three, the final point, is that we started seven-and-a-half years ago – seven-and-a-half years ago! – to negotiate the association agreement with ukraine and we have been saying since the very beginning that this is not a policy that will force our partners into making a choice between moscow or brussels. no. that was our policy seven-and-a-half years ago and that is our policy today. the association agreement is not about making our partners make choices at the expense of their traditional ties. the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade area actually strengthened our partners’ sovereignty. this is the only right thing we can do, because in the end it is up to them and their ambitions to make the choice, as it is up to us, also, to find the most adequate and most effective response to their ambitions. let me make my very last comment. there is no doubt that we take russia seriously. there is no doubt about us considering russia – despite the crimea, despite not stopping the flow of heavy equipment across the border –as a strategic partner, and no doubt that we were sincere when we started, when my colleague günther oettinger started the discussion on the price of gas and my colleague karel de gucht held the trilateral discussions on the implementation of the association agreement with ukraine and russia. and we also take them seriously when addressing the number of issues facing those who would like to build the south stream and to make it an eu-compatible project – and i am not talking about politics, i am talking about the legislation – and to hold these consultations with the russians, despite them taking us to the wto on the third energy package. this is how we in the best way and in practice show what we mean, that our policies do contribute to security on the european continent. our policy is not divisive. our policy is a win-win and not a zero-sum game.
the debate was closed by the tabling of seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 july 2014, at 11.00 hours. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) (2014/2714 ((rsp)).
mr president, after this debate we are having here, it seems to me that if the treaty were really that interesting to the european citizenry, the commissioner and the commission would not hesitate for a moment to make all the documents on the treaty public. but of course, i think they do not do so because, first of all, they know perfectly well that this treaty will mean more precarious employment; they know perfectly well that this treaty will mean the privatisation of basic and essential public services, such as health care or education - and not only privatising, but also making this privatisation irreversible. thirdly, they know full well that this will mean the ruin of small farmers, of small and mediumsized farmers in europe. they know perfectly well that this will mean the end of the precautionary principle and that it will mean handing over the sovereignty of the peoples to the transnational corporations.
mr president, commissioner, i think that this agreement - and i have listened to all my colleagues - needs more than ever a lot of pedagogy and a lot of transparency. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to promote the development of the european social model. and that is why i think it is important to support this agreement, a trade and investment agreement with the united states, to have that greater capacity for growth. now, that agreement cannot be just any agreement, and i think many of us have argued the same thing. i cannot, as a socialist, defend an agreement which would lower european standards in social, labour, health or environmental terms. nor can i support an agreement which does not guarantee a strong protection of private personal data, and of the diverse culture of our european union, nor an agreement which does not include regulation of the financial markets, because we must never forget where we are now as a result of the lack of regulation of these markets. but i also told him that it's fundamental to have transparency. you have said before that the negotiators on the part of the united states cannot offer members of the european parliament information which they do not offer to american parliamentarians. i don't know what the american parliamentarians are willing to accept. it is obvious that we in the european parliament will not support an agreement unless we have the information necessary to have a good basis for assuring us of the terms of the agreements. i think you have made progress in this respect and i ask you for more, please.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for the information you have given us on the negotiations on the agreement. fortunately, through the chief negotiator, mr garcía bercero, we in this parliament, in the previous legislature, have been regularly and closely informed about the negotiation process. the agreement with the united states is ambitious, balanced and mutually beneficial. it will also be very important for the growth and job creation we all need. the conclusion of the agreement, according to all analyses, will contribute to economic prosperity on both sides of the atlantic and will also serve to revitalize relations between two strategic partners when there is so much talk about the asia-pacific region. two further comments: firstly, i am confident that satisfactory solutions will be found with the united states in parallel to this agreement on data protection and telecommunications privacy. secondly, the agreement - and this is a very positive aspect - will open up the prospect of a large triangular economic area which would include other latin american partners with whom both the european union and the united states have trade agreements.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, most of us have been very vocal in the election campaign about the importance of boosting growth and job creation. i am therefore surprised that those who defended these issues most vigorously during the election campaign are now more vigorously criticising this agreement with the united states, which is precisely an instrument for boosting growth and job creation. according to some estimates, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's gdp could grow appreciably thanks to this agreement. more than two million jobs could be created in the european union, 143,000 of them in spain, my country. i am therefore surprised that some members are attacking this agreement so vehemently, which will, incidentally, benefit smes the most. finally, commissioner, i would like to remind you of the importance of including financial services in the negotiation of this agreement.
madam president, commissioner, we have talked about many things here today, and particularly about small and mediumsized enterprises, but we have not talked about a sector which i think is very important. this is the footwear industry, which employs many small and mediumsized enterprises in europe, companies which, in order to sell in the united states, are paying customs duties - in the case of textile footwear, 12%, and leather, 8%, and in some cases even up to 48% of customs duties - while our competitors in morocco or mexico are paying nothing. i ask you a few questions: our competitors, morocco and mexico, no longer pay, but what has been the offer from the americans towards our productions? has the european commission proposed the complete abolition of tariffs for the european footwear sector in this agreement? what position will the commission take on textiles, and in particular on footwear, in the negotiating rounds that will open from now on?
madam president, commissioner, thank you for coming. we have the impression that the transatlantic treaty is just another twist in a series of failed policies. since we are unable to define a serious growth strategy within the framework of the european union and the euro area itself, it now seems that we want to turn liberalisation upside down, as if that were the solution to all problems. that seems to us to be a totally wrong and misguided approach. i should also like to say that in this whole debate you are seeking, through the atci, to liberalize a great many sectors within the european union which should be addressed through a public debate, if that is what some of you want. if you want to liberalise many of our sectors, do not do it by negotiating a trade agreement behind the backs of the citizens, but open the debate. so let us simply reiterate that we do not see this type of agreement as the solution for the future of the european economy and, in any case, let us define a future strategy that will help citizens to get ahead and not failed international free trade agreements that we will have to pay for in the coming years.
madam president, i want a european regulation on minimum maternity and paternity leave, because it is fair. maternity should not be a handicap for women's careers, and the regulation of leave promotes equality, improves reconciliation and helps men to enjoy their fatherhood too. moreover, this regulation is necessary. low birth rates are affecting europe's competitiveness and without these permits we will continue to age, hopelessly, as a continent. we all know what that means. i therefore encourage mr renzi to put into practice what he said in the last plenary on the european social model. it has a challenge and an opportunity to change the council's mind on this matter, which is once again blocking the construction of a shared european social area. the excuse used this time 'the implementation of the refit programme' is an insult to all european women.
madam president, we all know that, although there is currently legislation protecting pregnant women and women workers, they are being discriminated against more and more at work because of their pregnancy or because they have given birth. that is why the protection of working women and the defence of their rights is urgent. the withdrawal of this directive will affect thousands of women workers and will also affect - and it must be said so - the hopes of many young couples. what is being done today is also contrary to the rhetoric of the european union, which in theory defends equality between men and women. we have heard mr juncker today, and we have also heard him say that the economy must be at the service of the people and not the other way around. and here this directive is being withdrawn partly because of its cost. in this context of crisis, women would again be unprotected in their right to reconcile family and professional life. we all remember the cuts in public services, day care, schools, and so on. just to conclude, no woman, regardless of her ideology, should allow herself to be denied her rights, whether for economic or other reasons. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, the european institutions cannot afford to take a step backwards in the fight for equality and citizens' rights. in this sense, the maternity leave directive is an essential instrument to ensure legal and effective european support for conciliation. we must strengthen european rules to legally defend maternity leave - and also paternity leave - by protecting wages and avoiding discrimination. in this connection, my group and many members are alarmed by the possible withdrawal of this directive announced by the commission. i would like to appeal directly to the italian presidency: frankly, i do not think that the best way to start the presidency would be to withdraw a directive which respects the fundamental rights of citizens. i would therefore ask the italian presidency to work hard to get it through. parliament is ready and willing to take this directive forward: please unblock it in the council and bring it to us for a second reading.
madam president, i would like to thank mr gozi for his presentation and realistic approach to how this situation is in the council, but i would like to explain one point to you. in 2010, in this parliament, with very different positions, very different positions between countries and between political groups, we were able to reach an agreement, to take a common position, because we understood that we were talking about the defence of the health and safety of working mothers and protection at work. we have been talking about the response of the citizens in these last european elections, and what the citizens of europe have told us is that they do not understand how we in europe are able to agree on economic policies, which are causing so much suffering, but are not able to agree on policies that speak of labour rights, social protection, equality between men and women. i therefore ask the italian presidency to make the effort it has made in this house to open the debate and to enable a movement to be set up so that a common position can be negotiated and then the debate with the european parliament can take place, because we are talking about policies which benefit the health of working women, but we are also talking about other important issues, such as labour rights. the european parliament proposed in this directive that women who are pregnant or have given birth within the last six months should not be dismissed from their jobs, which is a matter of labour rights which is more necessary today than ever, because we have gone backwards by light years in terms of the defence of the rights of workers in the european union. we therefore talk about labour rights, maternal health, reconciliation of family and working life, and also about the need to make progress on paternity leave so that men can take responsibility for the care of their children, in order to promote that reconciliation. there is much to be done, and we cannot remain passive. we cannot transfer to european citizenship what we are not capable of moving forward in that social europe of rights and citizens. i therefore ask the council to assume the important role it has at the moment, to initiate a debate within it because, in the european parliament, we are prepared to debate these issues, which is our responsibility and our obligation.
madam president, commissioner, we are entering a new legislature and i am pleased to see that youth employment is on the agenda from the start, which shows the commitment of this parliament to one of the major concerns facing europe. the crisis has taught us that we cannot go back to the production model we had ten years ago, but that we must reinvent ourselves; to do this, we must start working from education, adapting it to labour needs and basing it on sectors with a wide margin for growth and job creation. the promotion of youth employment is closely linked to support for smes and the selfemployed, the main generators of employment at european level, and to achieve this we must create an environment favourable to their establishment and growth, reduce administrative burdens and, above all, facilitate credit. there are currently around two million job vacancies in the european union which could be filled if all obstacles to mobility were removed and there was greater coordination of public employment services. the last legislature - and the commissioner has already taken note of this - approved the youth guarantee and the youth initiative, which are already under way. however, commissioner, if we are to ensure that our young people have professional opportunities that correspond to their qualifications, we must act before the problems arise. i would therefore like to ask you whether you expect a real long-term youth employment strategy, clearly defined and with the necessary funds to achieve it. and secondly, i would also like to ask you whether there are any proposals to encourage the entry into the labour market of young migrants, disabled people or members of the roma community, who have greater difficulties in finding employment.
madam president, commissioner, the future of europe is its 94 million young people under 30. we therefore want to ask the commission, as the new president juncker also promised in his speech yesterday, to urge the member states to increase the age limit for those who receive employment aid - such as the youth guarantee, but not only - from the current 25 to 30 years, because seven years of economic crisis have left millions of young people out of support, who are losing hope. we ask them to urge the states to link youth employment policies to sustainable contracts, to quality contracts. we ask that they address unambiguously the problem of underemployment and the growing precariousness of the economy. we ask you to urge the member states to also establish a preferential and key tool, such as the eures network, the guarantee of mobility and the possibility of using the union's resources so that the available employment is better distributed and better used. we cannot afford to leave a single euro, a single minute, a single available resource unused in the face of this unbearable rate of youth unemployment which is a source of shame for all europeans.
madam president, as you know, youth unemployment is the great symptom of all the hopelessness that this continent has. in recent years, this has been the subject of much discussion in the european union. we are seeing how in some countries the personal choice to emigrate has become a generational obligation, unfortunately. the alarm over the lack of hope and of a present for a continent where young people cannot find work is the doom of their future. that is why we have set up the youth guarantee - to which we have committed eur 6 billion - which is now being implemented in some countries. i come from the country that has the disgraceful pleasure of being the country with the highest youth unemployment rate in the western world: spain. more than a quarter of the youth guarantee funds will go to this country: we shall see what is to be done with that money in our country. unfortunately, we believe that the use is going to be absolutely fraudulent, using the resources in bonuses for public procurement - something we know doesn't work. it is another tool in the strategy of internal evaluation, which means that you end up firing your parents to hire your children with public subsidies from the european union, and the latter can be fired after six months without returning these subsidies. that's what's happening in our country. and we also know that because deficit targets are met and because spending on those youth guarantee deficit targets is also accounted for, we find countries with more unemployment that have these deficit targets, which is absolutely counterproductive. we have to find an answer to the next question: what is the scale of this problem? in recent years, during the economic crisis, we have allocated between 600 billion and 1.6 trillion - it depends on the calculation - to rescue the financial system. we said it was systemic, it was too big to fail. the question is whether the new generations, on this continent, are systemic, whether we can let them fall. that is the 'answer' that this parliament must give. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? mr lópez fernández, do you not think that the increase in the retirement age in spain by the socialist party and the popular party has had a direct relationship with youth unemployment?
the answer is 'blue card'. i am very much afraid that the problems we have with youth unemployment in spain are due to many more causes. we therefore try to explain that the economic policy pursued by europe in recent years, whether restrictive monetary policy, internal devaluation to increase competitiveness in some countries (which is a great euphemism for 'wage impoverishment') or budgetary austerity, has only led to recession and increased unemployment. as you know, youth unemployment is usually twice as high as the general unemployment rate in all countries, as it is in spain, with 50% youth unemployment and 25% general unemployment. that's the answer we should give.
madam president, the commission has found that the youth employment programme has been a failure and eur 6.4 billion is allocated for two years for the youth guarantee. do you really think that this budget is enough to create quality jobs with rights for unemployed young europeans? spain, for example. 55% youth unemployment. the rescue of the spanish banks: 40 billion euros. the youth guarantee programme: €1.8 billion for two years, about €70 for the unemployed, young unemployed: €70 a month! when did the commission, the council and a section of this parliament become more concerned with banks than with people? we are not going to accept, without making any statement, the words of the president of the international monetary fund, who proposes to lower the minimum wage - €654 in the case of spain - to hire young people. are we going to allow more poverty and inequality? are we going to allow new discrimination, this time for being young? i'm finished. do we want to end youth unemployment? it is simple: let us end austerity policies; let us boost growth above deficit and debt repayment; let us bet on public policies, investment, research, development, innovation; value added to work; more budget. jobs are not created by cutting social security contributions, losing rights and breaking up collective bargaining as has been done with labour reforms. there is no job creation by companies if there is no demand, and there is no demand if there are no quality, stable jobs with decent wages. once and for all, ladies and gentlemen, once and for all, let's put people first.
madam president, commissioner andor, the situation of young people in europe is absolutely tragic. some of the speakers who have gone before me have said so. in the case of some countries, such as spain, unemployment is 55%. this is a situation which, despite proposals such as the youth guarantee, is aggravated by all the economic policy recommendations made throughout the european semesters. young people are today the experimental field of precariousness, and i would like to know what you are planning to do in the face of the siren song to establish a specific framework of labour relations for young people which is not a genuine attack on their rights. in some countries, commissioner andor, the implementation of the youth guarantee is a real disaster. in the case of spain, practically all the money is going to tax breaks, which we know don't work. i would like to know, commissioner andor, what your opinion is on the way the youth guarantee is being implemented in spain and what you are going to do about the misuse of these proposals by some member states.
(the speaker opens his speech in catalan. madam president, i speak spanish, the language of my mother, my grandparents and myself. we have a debt as huge as it is illegitimate: the debt we have contracted with our young people. in the last ten years, we have destroyed their present and their future; we have robbed them of the most important thing: the possibility of becoming full citizens. it is therefore regrettable that the meeting scheduled for 11 july in turin was cancelled. the council and the commission are still running up debts with our young people. if we want to look at this question from the point of view of youth employment, we must use three concepts: rights, education and investment. firstly, it is a question of rights, not just aid, subsidies or tax incentives. aspects such as the youth guarantee, the living wage and 'unemployment insurance' must have a concrete, tangible place in european policies and in those of each member state. sufficient resources are needed for each of them and european control of their effective implementation is needed. secondly, we must start with education and its proper relationship to work in the immediate environment of each young person, but also with the promotion of mobility and the real existence of a european economic and work area. and thirdly, we must put investment into motion, the only reasonable way of creating jobs; we must free the enormous resources now held captive by budgetary consolidation and debt repayment. how much of the 300 billion announced by mr juncker can we allocate to this objective?
mr president, mr andor, in your speech you deplored the situation of young people in southern europe and said that youth unemployment is a threat to democracy. i welcome your concern, commissioner, but the fact is that the austerity policies, sponsored by both the european commission and the international monetary fund, have resulted, especially for young people in southern europe, in unemployment, precariousness and emigration. one of the hardest images for those of us from the south is to see young graduates serving drinks to tourists from the north. but of course, mr draghi told the committee on economic and monetary affairs that young people in the south are not sufficiently prepared. surely mr draghi could help them, for example, falsify the accounting of the central banks, which is what he did as a representative of goldman sachs together with lucas papademos. ladies and gentlemen, the problem of youth unemployment cannot be solved by laying off workers, by reducing the minimum wage, by cutting entitlements, or by racism. it's solved by disciplining the financial system.
mr president, last may in this very house 5 000 young people were debating ideas for a better europe, and one of the clearest messages they conveyed to us was that we should fight for their future, that we should fight so that they can have a job in the coming years, because they are the ones who are suffering the most from the consequences of the crises. it is clear that they are the ones who have been the most excluded from the labour market or have not even managed to enter it; they have the least social protection and therefore suffer the most from all these consequences: more poverty and more inequality. that's the future you're seeing. in the last mandate, with commissioner andor, we succeeded in implementing one of our priorities: the youth employment guarantee. but the youth guarantee was born with a shortage, it was cut, because the proposal of this parliament and this group was that the youth guarantee should be for those under 30 and not 25 and that it should be financed not with 6 billion but with 21 thousand. it is a lot of money, but youth unemployment is costing us 150 billion euros, which is 21 billion for the community's coffers!
mr president, commissioner, we are talking about youth employment, and this debate goes far beyond the youth guarantee. firstly, because many of us know that this was not enough money, that there was not enough money available - at least the 15 billion euros that the ilo told us would be needed to make it minimally efficient. some of us also said that it would be a doorway to precariousness if we gave up on a european system, that is, with general rules to be complied with by all the states. this debate is much more than that: it is about the labour reforms which the commission has promoted in the framework of the european semester to generalise the loss of rights and the reduction of wages; it is about the insufficient guarantees in labour mobility so that many young people who are leaving their countries also receive guarantees and equal opportunities. this debate also concerns the fraudulent schemes that exist in all the member states with the employment grants, which we are unable to stop. so, commissioner, when we talk about youth employment, we must be aware that employment is more than a right recognized in our rules: it is the umbilical cord by which a citizen feels or does not feel part of a society. if we want to put an end to euroscepticism, if we want to stop this wave of populism across europe, we have to offer something more than unemployment or precariousness to all young europeans. it is their duty and it is also our joint responsibility. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you for this reminder of history, but the people who are losing money today are the millions of european citizens who are seeing their wages devalued in order to gain competitiveness, to the point that, for example, the european commission has recognised that having a salary, having a job, is insufficient in some member states to lead a decent life. i cannot find anything that better defines the betrayal of the european social model by the austerity policies we have pursued in recent years. i do not know, i do not want to remember what happened five centuries ago: what i do care about is what has to happen in the next fifty years to get europe out of the social crisis in which it lives with these economic suffocation policies.
mr president, i welcome the announcement made yesterday by mr juncker to change the age limit for people eligible for this youth guarantee scheme to 30. i would also like to express a concern: this programme will work well as long as it is close to economic reality and the labour market and as long as it is comprehensive. many of the skills and knowledge to achieve this proximity are in the regions. in spain, the government has made an absurd allocation of the funds received to finance the programme: the state government will manage 85% and the regions the remaining 15%, when the responsibilities are distributed exactly the other way round. this is not an internal problem of a member state, it is a threat to the success of a european programme. that is why we are asking for controls to correct these malfunctions and ensure the effectiveness of the programme. and that is why, mr andor, i ask you if you are aware of the programme of the spanish state, of the government of the spanish state, and what do you think of the distribution you are proposing when in the end it does not fit the different needs of the different regions of the spanish state. it doesn 't fit the needs we have in euskadi with a youth ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - i support lithuania's adoption of the euro on 1 january 2015 because, as stated in the european central bank's report of 4 june, it meets all the convergence criteria required by the treaties and that was the wish of the lithuanian government and parliament.
in writing. - i particularly appreciate the fact that lithuania wants to enter the eurozone. its willingness should remind many of us how we sometimes fail to take sufficient account of the benefits of sharing this common project that is the euro. it is particularly pleasant to vote for the acceptance of lithuania, as this baltic country meets all the criteria for adoption of the euro. as we all know, this has not been the case in the past with other countries. twenty-five years ago, lithuania was part of the soviet union: today it is a european country, its prosperity is increasing day by day, it is a member state of the eu and it will soon be part of the eurozone. that is a success we should all be proud of.
in writing. - the convergence criteria applied to the new members of the euro area are totally arbitrary and ideological. in this sense, the austerity measures imposed on lithuania for the adoption of the currency have been draconian and have caused great suffering to a large part of the population. as lithuania has already de facto adopted the currency and its parliament has asked for membership, in order not to call into question the country's sovereignty or exclude it from the euro area governance system, i have voted in favour of membership. this does not exclude the fact that the euro area still has serious structural problems which it must address immediately if it is to survive and not continue to be a burden on the well-being of the population, particularly in the periphery.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have asked the council and the commission to make a statement on the state of payments in the budget of the european union. this is a matter directly linked to the budget negotiations under way this year. the council recognises that there is a specific problem with regard to invoices and late payments, particularly in the area of cohesion policies. these payments, like all others, must of course be made. the council's interest is obviously that no member state should have to face the consequences of a problem which is likely to lead to an increase in national budget deficits on its own. but there is another important aspect of the budget which concerns the way in which a proper balance is struck between two different orders of interests. on the one hand, we must respect the commitments we have made, and on the other hand we must take account of the need to ensure that the budget of the european union reflects the requirement that individual member states fully comply with the deficit targets set in the stability and growth pact, a requirement which is first and foremost a european obligation. it is true that last year we agreed annual budget ceilings from 2014 to 2020 in the multiannual financial framework, but these ceilings do not constitute spending targets. they should be assessed annually in the light of the economic situation of the member states and the possible impact on national budgets. this parliament, together with the council, adopted a package of legislation three years ago which lays down the basic rules which impose this budgetary discipline on the member states. the budget of the european union therefore requires careful planning. member states' requests to create sufficient margins below the ceilings are made in an attempt to control unforeseen or unexpected financial needs. i therefore strongly hope that we can avoid a debate in which the european union is divided into good and bad people, those who want to spend generously and those who want to save first and foremost. we're all in the same boat. we want to use and invest the eu budget in the most effective way to stimulate innovation, growth and jobs. at the same time, we must bear in mind the budgetary constraints within which we are operating. the experience of the last two years shows that the council is always ready to respond to proposals to cover justified and urgent payment needs. last year we approved an amending budget of eur 11.2 billion. why did we ask for it to be split in two? to ensure adequate control of changes in payment needs, but also to assist the national budgetary authorities in adjusting to the additional financial burden resulting from them. this year we will participate in the same spirit in the discussion and negotiations on the draft amending budgets which are on the table, as well as on the draft budget for 2015. although the backlog of payments in the cohesion sector was very high towards the end of last year, it has decreased significantly from eur 23 billion to eur 10 billion in the first half of this year. we are obviously going through a transition phase between the accumulated invoices at the end of a programming period and the start of a new period in which a certain amount of time is needed for the implementation of the programmes and for them to be fully effective in terms of leverage. we should take advantage of this situation rather than risk a failure of our negotiations. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our national economies and the need to promote growth in investment require a european union budget designed and implemented in the most effective way to achieve results. the italian presidency is ready to devote all its energies to achieving this objective. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. - mr president, the commission welcomes this discussion on the payments situation in the eu budget at the start of the parliament’s new term. the discussion is indeed timely, as both branches of the budgetary authority are engaging in discussions on the amending budgets for 2014, requesting additional payment appropriations, and on the 2015 draft budget. over the last few years, the budgetary authority has effectively followed a two-step approach whereby, first, an artificially low level of payment appropriations was authorised in the budget with the understanding, reflected in a recurrent joint statement, that a supplementary amending budget might be needed in the course of the year once implementation provided compelling evidence that more payment appropriations were needed. we saw this in 2012, when an amending budget of eur 6 billion was adopted at the end of the year, and again in 2013 when, thanks in particular to the determination and support of parliament, an additional eur 11.2 billion was eventually made available to cover outstanding needs. this approach in agreeing the budget in successive stages makes the budgetary process almost unintelligible and undermines the eu’s credibility. the eu budget should serve to implement our common priorities. this must be taken with seriousness and realism, addressing all the foreseen needs in the knowledge that the new multiannual financial framework (mff) provides the tools to address unforeseen needs should they arise. the commission proposals for the 2015 draft budget and for amending the 2014 budget reflect a responsible and realistic approach but again, realistically, they will only lead to stabilising the overall situation. the new mff provides for enhanced flexibility, not least thanks to the determination of parliament. the commission has consistently made it clear that the overall payment ceiling defined in the 2014-2020 mff would require the implementation of specific and maximum flexibility, and that it would make use of available flexibility instruments as provided for in the mff regulation if and where needed. this is what the commission did in late may this year by presenting draft amending budget no 3, with a request to use the remaining margin under the payment ceiling – some eur 700 million – and the activation of the contingency margin mechanism for an amount of eur 4 billion. such a request is justified by the payment shortages experienced in several programmes and by a number of unforeseen circumstances, including a higher than expected pace of implementation in cohesion policy, which led to an unprecedented level of unpaid bills at the end of 2013 to be covered with appropriations in the 2014 budget. for the 2015 draft budget, the commission proposes to make full use of the payment ceiling agreed in the multiannual financial framework. combined with a careful management of resources these measures should curb the global growth of outstanding commitments and provide the means to address our obligations stemming from previous years’ commitments. let me take this opportunity to give a face to this problem. it is not just about ministries or universities or even member states as such, getting money back later than expected. in many programmes, for example in research and innovation, we have small private companies that have valid contracts and have performed their agreed work and incurred the agreed costs and now could face a situation in which the commission simply cannot pay them in time. the commission will have to mitigate these risks. in this context, the risk of sme bankruptcy will be one important factor to consider. these proposals are also a key condition to kick-start the new investments in infrastructure, innovation, growth and jobs needed for the new period 2014-2020, precisely in line with the strategic priorities for the union as agreed by the heads of state and government on 26 and 27 june. developments on the revenue side should greatly facilitate the solution. exceptional additional revenue from fines stemming from the enforcement of competition policy will accrue on the eu budget in 2014, meaning that the additional payments requested for 2014 will be at virtually no cost to the member states. at the budgetary trilogue last week, parliament and the council had a first opportunity to exchange views on the commission proposals for the three amending budgets for 2014 and for the 2015 draft budget. the commission is doing everything within its powers to address a difficult situation. we can only hope that the council and parliament will soon reach agreement on a sustainable solution.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. we have been dragging this problem along for several years, mainly because of the incomprehensible attitude which the member states have so far taken in the council. in 2010, we ended with €5.5 billion in unpaid bills; in 2011, with €11 billion; in 2012, we went up to €16 billion; and in 2013 we ended with €25 billion in unpaid bills. it is clear that this situation is unsustainable and if we do not remedy it now, we shall end up with a suspension of payments. it could appeal to legality and sound financial management, which requires that the european institutions make available the necessary resources so that the union can meet its legal obligations. it could appeal to the credibility of the european union and the need for our partners to trust that we will meet our international commitments; or to the fulfilment of the agreements of the european council, which, for example, at its last meeting agreed on the need to invest and prepare the economies of the member states to meet needs in transport, energy or telecommunications. but, frankly, these appeals have never been of any use. we have given them reasons and we have given them figures and the council has continued to act as usual: not paying and cutting money. i am glad to hear the council admit that we have a problem, but it has just agreed on the level of payments for 2015 and cut the european commission's proposal by 2 billion. honestly, i don't know what his plan is. i don't know if they have it. i do not know whether they think that by not addressing the problem we are going to solve it, and that is why i would like to hear from the italian presidency, which we are counting on to solve this problem, the proposal for a package of measures to put an end to the problem of non-payments. and i'm going to give you a few ideas. first, to approve the amending budgets, to reduce this debt by eur 4.7 billion. secondly, we must work on a revision of the financial framework in order to be able to raise these payment ceilings. thirdly, to give the high-level group a definitive boost and to work on new own resources for the european union project. fourthly, to draw up a proposal for financial instruments to enable resources to be mobilised in order to be able to invest in the long term in this investment plan which the union so badly needs. and fifth, for example, to draw up a proposal to exclude from the accounting of the deficit of the countries the national contribution to the european budget, and thus to ease the strains on national finances. we have given you reasons, figures and even solutions, but if you need more examples i will give them to you. because behind these unpaid bills are municipalities, there are small businesses that need their money back, and there are ngos too. i would like to end, mr president, with one last example: humanitarian aid programmes have been paralysed and 400 iraqi families have no money or food.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i am pablo echenique robba, from podemos, and i am new to this house, so uncrowded when there are no votes. there's a lot i don't know yet, but being a scientist, i learn fast. i have recently learned, for example, that the european union is not like the lannisters, that the european union does not pay its debts: i am told that it owes more than 24 000 million euros to the member states and that year after year the commission and the council are busy 'storing up the partridge', as they are doing here today. this has surprised me a lot, really. you see, i come from a country which has been invited by the union, through the troika, in very non-transparent and very non-democratic ways to change the constitution to put the payment of the debt to the banks ahead of any investment in the social rights of the people. with the votes of socialists and the people, this reform was effectively carried out in a country which was and is experiencing a humanitarian emergency, with millions of poor, unemployed and displaced people. seeing this situation, one tends to think that the matter of paying off debt must be something very important, something sacred, perhaps the eleventh commandment. then you find out that the union owes more than 24 billion and you think that, being new, there must be something you have not understood. this double standard is too spectacular to be true. i therefore ask the president, the council and the commission to deny that the union owes 24 000 million and to confirm to me, please, that what is on the screens and on today's agenda is wrong.
the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. it has its antecedents in the azores summit, where, with lies and deception, the door was opened to the first genocide of the 21st century. one and a half million dead already in iraq. at that meeting, durão barroso, former president of the european commission, acted as steward. i do not want durão barroso to be visited by revenge, but by international humanitarian law, which will punish the alleged crimes of those who have instigated this aggression and invasion. as a result of this intervention and occupation, we now have a destroyed and destabilized country, divided into ethnic and sectarian quotas. the clear example is the current government, a government that employs a national army as a sectarian militia, as when it launched it against the protests of 2011. we must condemn all interference, from far away, from countries close by, but also from fundamentalist terrorism, which some are supporting in syria or libya. the european union has the opportunity to initiate a new foreign policy, by promoting a conference within the framework of the united nations, with the participation of the arab and neighbouring countries, so that the iraqis will be given a new constitution; all iraqis, without ethnic or sectarian distinctions, so that everyone can decide their future, that of the country and that of its natural resources, which, i recall, belong to them alone. only then can peace be achieved. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. yes, the problem with you is that you have a very selective memory: i don't. my memory goes even as far as the british empire's imperialism and the division: the problems that that area has come from the colonial division, and what is happening now in iraq is a result of 2003, but also a result of the previous one. i don't have that selective memory you have to invoke saddam hussein now. we still have over a hundred thousand compatriots lying in the gutters of my country. a family member of mine was killed in iraq. we won't forget, even if you don't like it.
madam president, one has to ask why the islamic state of iraq and the levant (isil) was able to conquer almost half of iraq in a matter of days, just as one has to ask why the taliban were able to eliminate the mujahideen in a single blow. that means having the support of the civilian population, whether we like it or not, and what that means is that we have a sectarian government, which is the government of nuri al-maliki. franklin roosevelt, many years ago, said of somoza in nicaragua: "yes, yes, i recognize that somoza is a bastard, but he is our bastard". the problem we have is that the risk of balkanization in the area is of such a caliber that it can turn iraq into a veritable labyrinth, like the whole middle east. what we have to do is not to look back and see the sins, which are existing and are certain, but to look to the future and demand, not through a mere parliamentary question or a plea for democracy, a national consensus. in iraq, for god's sake, let's stop talking about democratic elections, which is an oxymoron, it's a contradiction in terms. what we have to do to be able to continue to support the fiction that is the government of nuri al-maliki is to demand that there is a national consensus.
madam president, there is, first of all, a profound problem of social justice and freedom in iraq which is destroying the life expectancies of most iraqis. iraq is now a factory of despair which allows all kinds of extremism to flourish; economic and strategic interests concentrated in the area do the rest, because they turn the region into a powder keg. sectarian killings, bombings, fighting make it possible to present this crisis as a simple military and security issue, but it is much more; and only by applying comprehensive measures, addressing the root of the problem, will there be solutions. freedom, development, equality and the basic rights of people are the most important things, and the integrity of states, especially when they do not offer those answers to their citizens, are empty words. i therefore agree with the need to promote and support a comprehensive 'political, social and economic' solution to the problem of iraq. i support the announcement by the kurdistan government that it will hold an independence referendum with respect for minorities, as stated in the resolution signed by the five groups. we hope - and i hope - that they will quickly form a stable government so that we can explore solutions on the basis of regional dialogue, and in the meantime we must continue to support them with diplomatic and humanitarian aid.
madam president, iraq is going through a very serious crisis, although the election of the new president of the council of representatives yesterday is good news. however, as has been reiterated here this afternoon, we must not forget the serious risk of decomposition facing the country due to the armed intervention of the group called the islamic state and the territorial tensions of recent times. finally, yesterday, as i said earlier, the house of representatives reached an agreement to appoint a new speaker. it is a modest first step towards ending the political impasse, the political blockade that iraq has been experiencing since the elections on 30 april. i hope that an inclusive, broad-based government, representative of the country's different communities, will be formed as soon as possible. precisely this extreme political division serves those who want to destabilize iraq and end the hope of peace and prosperity in the country. the european union must continue to encourage a process of national political inclusiveness and continue to support the unity, territorial integrity and independence of iraq, as the council of ministers stated at its meeting on 23 june. we don't want the country to be fragmented. the rise of this armed group called the islamic state, and its implantation both in syria, and now in iraq, threatens to sharpen the decomposition of this country - and also of the region - in various territories controlled by different armed groups. and this group, the former isis, is not only a terrorist group, it is already a real terrorist army that poses a threat of regional and also global dimension. we must work with all countries in the region to help support internal stability and unity in the country. moreover, none of them should be in favour of the territories adjacent to the border between iraq and syria becoming what afghanistan was in the 1990s. finally, madam president, i would like to highlight the difficult humanitarian crisis in the country, in particular the tragic situation of the hundreds of thousands of civilians displaced by insecurity, and among them - as my colleague tunne kelam has already said - the christian community, which in recent years has drastically reduced its presence in iraq. the european union must continue this humanitarian aid. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? mr. millan, two very quick questions. firstly, i would like to know how much responsibility you attribute to mr josé maría aznar for the current situation in iraq. and secondly, does the pp still think that the intervention in 2003 was a good decision?
the answer is 'blue card'. mr urtasun, i believe that the causes of historical events are multiple: some remote and others more immediate. and i believe that the intervention in iraq was based on some premises, on some data, which later turned out, unfortunately, to be not authentic.
blue card question. what is it? mr castaldo, you know very well that i share your views in some of your speeches, but in this case, even assuming the good intentions of your words, do you not think that the equidistance, when it comes to the palestinian-israeli conflict, is giving the state of israel an unfair situation in relation to the weak, which, in this case, are the palestinians?
blue card question. what is it? mr de graaf, have you spoken about the israeli state's containment - i seem to understand that - when those who die under the israeli army's bombs are children in the gaza strip? is that containment? do you know perfectly well that those children were going to be hamas terrorists and that, therefore, they deserved to die?
madam president, we certainly do not accept that the european union, which claims to be the standard-bearer of human rights and freedoms, should maintain an association agreement with a state such as israel, whose government maintains an apartheid system against the palestinian population in the gaza strip. for ten years the hague court's judgment has been ignored by that state which illegally occupies palestinian territories, which practices extrajudicial killing, which allows torture, which imprisons minors and which bombs civilian areas using weapons prohibited by the geneva conventions. more than 80% of the dead are civilians. we deplore this resolution, which was agreed by the social democrats, the people's party, the conservatives and the liberals, because in its first paragraph it makes the victims into executioners and the executioners into victims. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i will remind you of the charter of the united nations, which says that every occupied people has the right to defend themselves. palestine has no army, no navy, no air force; it has stones and perhaps some uncontrolled group. but remember, remember the founding charter of the united nations.
madam president, the israeli wall violates international law and the principles of the united nations charter, divides families and villages and makes normal life impracticable. the israeli wall is illegal and i'm not saying it. that is what the international court of justice in the hague said ten years ago, on a july day like this. this sentence is one of the symbols of the impunity which the international community allows the state of israel. the anniversary coincides with the umpteenth collective punishment of the state of israel on gaza and the west bank. there have been others: 2008, operation "cast lead"; 2012, operation "pillar of defense". all of them deserved a lukewarm condemnation from this parliament. all those assaults, in the end, went unpunished. you are also facing a shameful equidistance between one of the world's most important armies and an occupied people isolated by land, sea and air in what has been called the world's largest prison. what can we do? at the very least, we must re-examine the euro-mediterranean agreement until the human rights enshrined in article 2 are respected. tomorrow it will be said in the streets: tomorrow there will be mobilizations all over europe - also in israel by civil society - and the international community will be asked for a reaction.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i don't want it to happen again. meriam yahia ibrahim's case is just another case, which is the anecdote within the appalling category that means whole sudan. today in sudan there are continuing massacres in yebel nuba, in the western part of darfur and in kordofan. so what we have to do is be proactive. we have tools which are not formal and rhetorical condemnations: we have the capacity, and the capacity is simply called, for example, the cotonou agreement, to bind in an effective way the democratic clause - which i call the hypocritical clause, because it has never been applied (although it is generally article 2 of all association treaties) or to require the necessary democratic activity of a country to continue to maintain privileged links or special economic, commercial links of any kind. so, beyond condemning the horrific case of meriam yahia ibrahim, we must apply the democratic clause and link our relationship with these countries effectively, with minimal respect for human rights.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the situation in the middle east, and the council has been asked to take a decision on the situation in the middle east. we must also demand the immediate release of the journalists imprisoned for reporting legitimate news and reiterate our firm opposition to the death penalty. in our view, the european union should call on the member states to prohibit the export of military aid to egypt and to recall that association agreements are subject to respect for human rights. we also understand that the egyptian authorities must be called upon to open the rafah border to alleviate the suffering of the palestinian people, who are being massacred in the gaza strip by the israeli army.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, under the pretext of guaranteeing security and public order, the government of general al-sisi is ruthlessly and systematically suppressing any kind of social protest against its policies, from the criminalization of the muslim brotherhood to the imprisonment of journalists, politicians and prominent members of civil society, among others. this shows conclusively that hopes for a democratic transition under the current government are very weak. the most worrying thing is that these events are taking place in a scandalously arbitrary legal environment, where the basic rights of detainees are constantly violated. they have not succeeded in uniting the european partners in a common response to such regrettable events. once again we are not united. europe, whose foreign policy must combine the protection of its interests with the utmost defence of the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, which are at the root of its worldview, must speak with one voice and call on the government in cairo to respect the fundamental freedoms of all its citizens without exception.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this time in the form of violence against women and against girls whose only crime is exercising their right to go to school. we want their immediate release and we want a guarantee that these girls and all other girls will be able to attend school. we are once again shocked to see how women are used as trophies, objects and bargaining chips in conflict. i want to express our indignation and call on the institutions and society to strengthen the fight for equality and to guarantee respect for women's rights everywhere and in all situations.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i join in condemning the abduction of the chibok school girls. once again, sexual violence against women and girls is being used as a weapon of war. i reject the violence of boko haram and its fundamentalism, as well as the crimes and the war that is being lived in northern nigeria - how could it not be! - but my reflection goes further. nigeria is, since 2013, the richest country in africa - its gross domestic product already exceeds that of south africa - and it doesn't just live off oil: it has a thriving cultural and telecommunications industry, but 60 percent of the population lives on little more than a dollar a day. think of the despair that this produces and the breeding ground it provides for all kinds of extremism. the inhumanity of boko haram must be fought - no doubt - but it is also inhuman, it is unthinkable that such a rich country deserves the 153rd place in the united nations human development index. institutional corruption and the unjust and unequal distribution of wealth also need condemnation and solutions, because they also kill and make it possible for too many people to have nothing to lose, not even their own lives. that is why i am calling today for the immediate release of the girls.
mr president, we voted against the resolution because we denounce the complicity, the collaboration of the institutions of the european union with the government of ukraine, a government that was the result of a coup d'état, a government with the presence of neo-nazis. once again the european union has sided with the economic interests of certain multinationals and the geopolitical interests of the united states, rather than with the people and peoples of ukraine. we are calling for an independent commission of inquiry to investigate the massacre of 2 may in odessa, where more than 40 people were killed in the trade union house, apparently at the hands of members of far-right organisations. we are clear that the extreme right must be stopped in its tracks throughout europe and also in ukraine.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is a brazen act of interference with the country and especially with the regions that have risen against the fascist coup d'état. this resolution makes no mention of the european union's responsibility for the violence in the country, an eu complicit in a coup d'état, which supports and encourages neo-nazi militias in order to gain access to the coveted natural resources, especially gas, needed to compete with russia. equidistance in condemning violence is a real exercise in cynicism when you see a powerful army massacring small towns. it is because of this lack of recognition of the eu's responsibility that i have decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is a brazen act of interference with the country and especially with the regions that have risen against the fascist coup d'état. this resolution makes no mention of the european union's responsibility for the violence in the country, an eu complicit in a coup d'état, which supports and encourages neo-nazi militias in order to gain access to the coveted natural resources, especially gas, needed to compete with russia. equidistance in condemning violence is a real exercise in cynicism when you see a powerful army massacring small towns. it is because of this lack of recognition of the eu's responsibility that i have decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is a brazen act of interference with the country and especially with the regions that have risen against the fascist coup d'état. this resolution makes no mention of the european union's responsibility for the violence in the country, an eu complicit in a coup d'état, which supports and encourages neo-nazi militias in order to gain access to the coveted natural resources, especially gas, needed to compete with russia. equidistance in condemning violence is a real exercise in cynicism when you see a powerful army massacring small towns. it is because of this lack of recognition of the eu's responsibility that i have decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - i have added my name to this resolution as i firmly believe that full respect for democracy is the tool to achieve what the ukrainians want. hence, i welcome any initiative towards stopping the violence that is gravely affecting the country and its population. furthermore, as clearly stated in the resolution, it is in the interest of all parties that the well-being of its people is promoted through different measures such as political agreements, including free trade agreements with third countries, and applying best practices to its government policies.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is a brazen act of interference with the country and especially with the regions that have risen against the fascist coup d'état. this resolution makes no mention of the european union's responsibility for the violence in the country, an eu complicit in a coup d'état, which supports and encourages neo-nazi militias in order to gain access to the coveted natural resources, especially gas, needed to compete with russia. equidistance in condemning violence is a real exercise in cynicism when you see a powerful army massacring small towns. it is because of this lack of recognition of the eu's responsibility that i have decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, although it contains some points which i consider of extreme interest in solving the very serious situation facing the youth of the european union, it does not make the member states responsible for this situation. many governments in southern european countries are trying to expel their young people as a way of reducing the social conflict they are experiencing because of the imposition of austerity policies. however, the resolution contains positive points when it calls for the reduction of inequalities, the relaxation of the rules of the european social fund to enable projects to be carried out, acknowledges the lack of resources for the youth employment initiative, etc. however, this resolution is insufficient to deal with the main problem facing the european economy and i could not therefore vote in favour of it. these funds are a band-aid on a bullet wound.
in writing. - youth employment is one of our top priorities. there are 120 million europeans below the poverty line and 25% of the more than 25 million unemployed are young people. in my country, spain, more than 50% of young people are unemployed. youth employment will define the eu for the next generation. the full development of the youth guarantee is the central element of the socialist strategy of job creation. we're betting on substantially increasing their budget and extending it to the age of 30. we must also introduce a minimum wage that is decent for all, guarantee equal pay and protect the rights of workers, trade unions, social dialogue and anti-discrimination legislation. we want to put an end to social dumping and revise the directive on the posting of workers to improve their protection. we want a more ambitious industrial policy, support for the social economy and smes, promote technological and sustainable innovation, and improve economic performance. the challenges are many. at the request of the socialists, some of our demands were recognized yesterday in his government programme by the new president of the european commission. we will remain vigilant in the fulfilment of its commitments to our group.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, although it contains some points which i consider interesting in order to solve the very serious situation facing the youth of the european union, it does not regard the austerity policies of the european union and the troika as the main cause of this situation, nor does it regard the responsibility of the member states. many governments in southern european countries are trying to expel their young people as a way of reducing the social conflict they are experiencing because of the imposition of austerity policies. however, the resolution contains positive points when it calls for the reduction of inequalities, the relaxation of the rules of the european social fund to enable projects to be carried out, acknowledges the lack of resources for the youth employment initiative, etc. however, this resolution is insufficient to deal with the main problem facing the european economy and i could not therefore vote in favour of it. these funds are a band-aid on a bullet wound.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, although it contains some points which i consider of extreme interest in solving the very serious situation facing the youth of the european union, it does not make the member states responsible for this situation. many governments in southern european countries are trying to expel their young people as a way of reducing the social conflict they are experiencing because of the imposition of austerity policies. however, the resolution contains positive points when it calls for the reduction of inequalities, the relaxation of the rules of the european social fund to enable projects to be carried out, acknowledges the lack of resources for the youth employment initiative, etc. however, this resolution is insufficient to deal with the main problem facing the european economy and i could not therefore vote in favour of it. these funds are a band-aid on a bullet wound.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, although it contains some points which i consider interesting in order to solve the very serious situation facing the youth of the european union, it does not regard the austerity policies of the european union and the troika as the main cause of this situation, nor does it regard the responsibility of the member states. many governments in southern european countries are trying to expel their young people as a way of reducing the social conflict they are experiencing because of the imposition of austerity policies. however, the resolution contains positive points when it calls for the reduction of inequalities, the relaxation of the rules of the european social fund to enable projects to be carried out, acknowledges the lack of resources for the youth employment initiative, etc. however, this resolution is insufficient to deal with the main problem facing the european economy and i could not therefore vote in favour of it. these funds are a band-aid on a bullet wound.
in writing. - youth unemployment is one of the biggest challenges of our time. in catalonia, where i come from, youth unemployment already affects more than 50% of the young population, and many young people have to leave the country in order to get a job. i hope that this resolution sends a clear signal to the commission and the council in order to push with stronger regulations and projects to help to solve this issue. the problem of youth unemployment will not be solved at european level, but the eu can help to improve member states’ practices in tackling this issue.
in writing. - while the resolution contains interesting elements, it falls short of the urgency and breadth of the problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because, although it contains some points which i consider of extreme interest in solving the very serious situation facing the youth of the european union, it does not make the member states responsible for this situation. many governments in southern european countries are trying to expel their young people as a way of reducing the social conflict they are experiencing because of the imposition of austerity policies. however, the resolution contains positive points when it calls for the reduction of inequalities, the relaxation of the rules of the european social fund to enable projects to be carried out, acknowledges the lack of resources for the youth employment initiative, etc. however, this resolution is insufficient to deal with the main problem facing the european economy and i could not therefore vote in favour of it. these funds are a band-aid on a bullet wound.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it refuses to hold the united states and the other occupying armies responsible for this increase in violence since the invasion of the country. despite the use of false evidence and lies to justify itself, it seems that this parliament does not intend to hold to account those who are responsible for an invasion that has disintegrated the country and given rise to the development of terrorist movements. the resolution also does not criticize the responsibility of the present iraqi government for the development of the present situation of violence due to its sectarian policies. i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it does not accuse all those responsible for the tragic situation in which the country is now found.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it refuses to hold the united states and the other occupying armies responsible for this increase in violence since the invasion of the country. despite the use of false evidence and lies to justify itself, it seems that this parliament does not intend to hold to account those who are responsible for an invasion which has disintegrated the country and given rise to the development of terrorist movements. the resolution also does not criticize the responsibility of the present iraqi government for the development of the present situation of violence due to its sectarian policies. i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it does not accuse all those responsible for the tragic situation in which the country is now found.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it refuses to hold the united states and the other occupying armies responsible for this increase in violence since the invasion of the country. despite the use of false evidence and lies to justify itself, it seems that this parliament does not intend to hold to account those who are responsible for an invasion which has disintegrated the country and given rise to the development of terrorist movements. the resolution also does not criticize the responsibility of the present iraqi government for the development of the present situation of violence due to its sectarian policies. i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it does not accuse all those responsible for the tragic situation in which the country is now found.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it refuses to hold the united states and the other occupying armies responsible for this increase in violence since the invasion of the country. despite the use of false evidence and lies to justify itself, it seems that this parliament does not intend to hold to account those who are responsible for an invasion which has disintegrated the country and given rise to the development of terrorist movements. the resolution also does not criticize the responsibility of the present iraqi government for the development of the present situation of violence due to its sectarian policies. i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it does not accuse all those responsible for the tragic situation in which the country is now found.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it refuses to hold the united states and the other occupying armies responsible for this increase in violence since the invasion of the country. despite the use of false evidence and lies to justify itself, it seems that this parliament does not intend to hold to account those who are responsible for an invasion which has disintegrated the country and given rise to the development of terrorist movements. the resolution also does not criticize the responsibility of the present iraqi government for the development of the present situation of violence due to its sectarian policies. i could not vote in favour of this resolution because it does not accuse all those responsible for the tragic situation in which the country is now found.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i do not share the equidistance with which the parties are treated when israel is massacring civilians. with over 600 palestinians killed in the gaza strip as a result of israeli attacks in its latest offensive, it is clear that israel is committing crimes of genocide, war, aggression and crimes against humanity, crimes punishable by law as intentional and prosecuted by the international criminal court. given this situation of military killing civilians, equidistance is obscene. we are not asking for the association agreement with the state of israel to be frozen or for any sanctions to be imposed on it, thereby losing the opportunity to demand compliance with international law. i have therefore decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i do not share the equidistance with which the parties are treated when israel is massacring civilians. with over 600 palestinians killed in the gaza strip as a result of israeli attacks in its latest offensive, it is clear that israel is committing crimes of genocide, war, aggression and crimes against humanity, crimes punishable by law as intentional and prosecuted by the international criminal court. given this situation of military killing civilians, equidistance is obscene. we are not asking for the association agreement with the state of israel to be frozen or for any sanctions to be imposed on it, thereby losing the opportunity to demand compliance with international law. i have therefore decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i do not share the equidistance with which the parties are treated when israel is massacring civilians. with over 600 palestinians killed in the gaza strip as a result of israeli attacks in its latest offensive, it is clear that israel is committing crimes of genocide, war, aggression and crimes against humanity, crimes punishable by law as intentional and prosecuted by the international criminal court. given this situation of military killing civilians, equidistance is obscene. we are not asking for the association agreement with the state of israel to be frozen or for any sanctions to be imposed on it, thereby losing the opportunity to demand compliance with international law. i have therefore decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - the situation in the gaza strip is intolerable. in the tenth day of attacks since the israeli military operation "defensive pillar" began, 213 people (212 palestinians and 1 israeli) have been killed, of whom at least 39 were children. yesterday, israel killed 4 children playing soccer on the gaza beach by firing projectiles directly at them. in addition, the israeli army has announced that it wants 100,000 palestinians from gaza to leave their homes and, according to unwra, there are 22,000 displaced palestinians living in un shelters, as the borders are closed. gaza is a big prison with 1.8 million palestinians bombed by israel. this morning israel and hamas have agreed to a five-hour ceasefire to allow humanitarian aid into gaza, but it is not enough. this is a real human tragedy and we must do everything we can to stop it. that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution, because every gesture and action is necessary to call on the parties to stop the violence and to return to negotiations in order to try to put an end to a conflict that has been going on for a long time.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because when in a conflict between two of its members one of them has much more strength and military power than the other, as is the case of israel against hamas, the equidistance is an injustice. because i do not want to feel ashamed of being responsible for such a lukewarm statement against the killing of palestinian civilians that israel is perpetrating and of which this so unconvincing resolution makes us accomplices.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i do not share the equidistance with which the parties are treated when israel is massacring civilians. with over 600 palestinians killed in the gaza strip as a result of israeli attacks in its latest offensive, it is clear that israel is committing crimes of genocide, war, aggression and crimes against humanity, crimes punishable by law as intentional and prosecuted by the international criminal court. given this situation of military killing civilians, equidistance is obscene. we are not asking for the association agreement with the state of israel to be frozen or for any sanctions to be imposed on it, thereby losing the opportunity to demand compliance with international law. i have therefore decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - i did not add my name and co-sign the alde resolution text regarding the escalation of the situation between israel and palestine because i did not find it balanced enough. i think that europe should not forget that, according to the israeli government at the moment i write, 300 rockets were fired from the gaza strip into israel from mid-june until 7 july whereas, according to the israel defence forces, more than 1000 rockets have been launched from the gaza strip to israel since 7 july 2014, aimed at targets as far as jerusalem, tel aviv and the north of the country. moreover, in my view, the eu should call on hamas and palestinian organisations to cease using civilian populations as human shields in the hostilities. this is really a crime against humanity. both parties should refrain from excessive violence and respect the ceasefire. i repeat both parties in this conflict.
in writing. - the text of the resolution finally agreed is equidistant and does not contain a strong condemnation of the actions of the state of israel, the systematic violation of international law and the heinous crimes committed in gaza in recent days. i have therefore decided to vote against the resolution.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i do not share the equidistance with which the parties are treated when israel is massacring civilians. with over 600 palestinians killed in the gaza strip as a result of israeli attacks in its latest offensive, it is clear that israel is committing crimes of genocide, war, aggression and crimes against humanity, crimes punishable by law as intentional and prosecuted by the international criminal court. given this situation of military killing civilians, equidistance is obscene. we are not asking for the association agreement with the state of israel to be frozen or for any sanctions to be imposed on it, thereby losing the opportunity to demand compliance with international law. i have therefore decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because of our firm commitment to the development, defence and enforcement of international law. this resolution shows support for the work of the international criminal court in the revision of the rome statute with the kampala amendments which criminalizes the crime of aggression. this new typification is an important development which could help to put an end to the impunity of many states. only 30 states have so far ratified this amendment to the treaty of rome, so this resolution in support of it is an important call to the attention of the member states for its ratification. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because of our firm commitment to the development, defence and enforcement of international law. this resolution shows support for the work of the international criminal court in the revision of the rome statute with the kampala amendments which criminalizes the crime of aggression. this new typification is an important development which could help to put an end to the impunity of many states. only 30 states have so far ratified this amendment to the treaty of rome, so this resolution in support of it is an important call to the attention of the member states for its ratification. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because of our firm commitment to the development, defence and enforcement of international law. this resolution shows support for the work of the international criminal court in the revision of the rome statute with the kampala amendments which criminalizes the crime of aggression. this new typification is an important development which could help to put an end to the impunity of many states. only 30 states have so far ratified this amendment to the treaty of rome, so this resolution in support of it is an important call to the attention of the member states for its ratification. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because of our firm commitment to the development, defence and enforcement of international law. this resolution shows support for the work of the international criminal court in the revision of the rome statute with the kampala amendments which criminalizes the crime of aggression. this new typification is an important development which could help to put an end to the impunity of many states. only 30 states have so far ratified this amendment to the treaty of rome, so this resolution in support of it is an important call to the attention of the member states for its ratification. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because of our firm commitment to the development, defence and enforcement of international law. this resolution shows support for the work of the international criminal court in the revision of the rome statute with the kampala amendments which criminalizes the crime of aggression. this new typification is an important development which could help to put an end to the impunity of many states. only 30 states have so far ratified this amendment to the treaty of rome, so this resolution in support of it is an important call to the attention of the member states for its ratification. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
mr president, the people's group is not opposed to the debate, we are simply saying that it should be held where it is legally appropriate. hungary has already been discussed in the house and has been done many times. the fact is that there is no new fact that justifies bringing the matter back to the house just because we are on the eve of elections in that country. there is agreement in the libe committee, from all the coordinators of the libe committee, that this should be discussed there, and agreement from the conference of presidents that it should be discussed in the libe committee. the plenary should not deprive committees of their powers without a very good reason. yes, we must debate, but we must debate where it is appropriate, not where it is not.
mr president, my group shares the concern expressed by the liberal and green group on the situation in hungary. in fact, the evolution of this situation is even more serious, because we had to deal with it in the last legislature. i do not think it is true, as has just been pointed out, that there are no new developments. there are. and worrying: attacks on non-governmental organizations and other types of violations of democratic rights. i therefore believe that this parliament must debate this issue, but i do not think that this is the time to bring it to the house. my group will support a debate in the plenary immediately after - and as soon as possible after - a debate in the committee on civil liberties, with the participation of the social partners and non-governmental organisations.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, commissioner, the european peasantry is the victim of a decision which we have not taken. we are the victims of an irresponsible decision taken by the european union, as we know, to further the interests of the united states government. but this crisis also shows the insecurity and economic fragility in which the present european policy has plunged the peasantry in the european union: a common agricultural policy with an export orientation and that is why we are now in this situation. we believe that it is urgent that aid should reach the farmers, all farmers without discrimination, all sectors of production - all sectors of production are affected by this crisis - and that aid should be sufficient to cover production costs and farm labour. but we urgently need, commissioner, to open a debate on a new cap, a cap which puts the rights and interests of the farmers, the lives of the farmers, at the centre... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker) (the speaker agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i believe that, as i have said, the commission's irresponsibility is already a legacy of an export policy which led us to these conclusions. that is why i think it is urgent, for example, in the dairy sector, to reverse and put an end to this decision to abandon quotas. i also think we need to move towards a policy which establishes mechanisms for publicly managing supply, and also towards a policy which ensures that farmers are going to be charged the right price for our work. in short, a common agricultural policy within the framework of food sovereignty.
madam president, i believe that in foreign policy there is something much more important than one's own ideology, and that is responsibility. and i have the impression that in recent months we have seen far less responsibility: we have seen european leaders making warmongering speeches against russia and we have seen them support illegal power transfers in ukraine, which have resulted, among other things, in neo-nazis in the government of that country and the outlawing of political parties. the consequences for european farmers are a russian veto worth €2 billion, whereas the european commission is only providing €125 million. it is easy to beat oneself in the chest; it is easy to evoke, as we have heard in this house, nothing more and nothing less than ronald reagan, which is very 'reassuring'. what's next? remember the tragic days of the euro-missiles? i have no sympathy for mr putin, but i believe that the union's foreign policy cannot be playing risk with the interests of european farmers and that, for better or for worse, europeans deserve a peaceful and responsible relationship with russia.
madam president, commissioner, we are in the midst of an important debate, one of great relevance for the european agri-food sector and, of course, for my country, spain. the undeniable urgency of the measures - in response to the two regulations we have seen during the month of august - has not been as immediate for the fisheries sector as mrs thomas has referred to, because, although we have not seen any of these measures from your colleague commissioner damanaki, the urgency with which you have taken these measures is undeniable, but perhaps the result, of course, in my opinion, is not the right one. it is perhaps premature to make an estimate of overall losses. what is clear is that there are no funds in the cap that can mitigate or limit the impact that can be produced. between the commission's estimates of eur 5 billion and the 125 billion the commission has put forward for perishable products, it is clear that much is still lacking. perhaps, commissioner, the worst is yet to come. i would like to stress that there is a general tendency to be more sensitive to continental products and less so to mediterranean products. i do not think it is appropriate to include some perishable products in the list and others not, which are in production, which creates confusion and discrimination. we now have the suspension of the regulation, which must be put into effect as soon as possible. we need to improve crisis mechanisms. i lived in my homeland, andalusia, the e. coli crisis: how, unjustly, it was blamed on andalusian agricultural production. and i saw what a crisis is and how long it takes to get over it. but i want to tell you that we also need to look at something that's happening with the large distribution. there's a market crash. this has been particularly the case in august, with price reductions. but consumers don't see the lower prices. who is taking the benefit of this crisis? if the russian veto were to stand, would you not perhaps consider revising the association agreements and community preferences?
madam president, commissioner, i regret that my first speech in this parliament is to denounce the damage being done to the agricultural and livestock sector as a result of the embargo imposed by the russian government. i think the european union should act more responsibly, considering that this is a very serious matter whose causes are completely outside the sector. emergency aid should be directed to those who are really affected by this crisis, extended to the sectors that are needed - as, for example, now citrus - and taking into account the cascading effect of some producers on others - and i am referring, for example, to mushrooms. it is common knowledge that the current suspension of aid is due to certain abuses detected in some member states in the aid application process. this suspension has been met with great concern by the producers, who need to see clearly the support of the union in this context, and i would therefore ask you, commissioner, to comply with what has been announced and to present a system for the distribution of emergency aid on 16 september which does not lead to unbalanced situations. the european commission should, in my view, be seriously considering the possibility of taking a new action against russia before the world trade organisation, and as regards the question of economic resources, the funds should not be confined to the agricultural budget but should also come from other chapters of the union budget, bearing in mind that, as we have said, this is a problem generated by circumstances totally outside the sector.
madam president, the russian embargo on european products is not only having serious effects on our farmers and livestock farmers, with particular impact on more fragile regions such as the canary islands, but also on the fisheries and aquaculture sector, which is being seriously affected. i have to admit that i would have liked to see the same diligence as commissioner cioloș in these sectors, because we must not forget that exports of fishery products to russia account for 5% of the european union's total. in fact, russia is our sixth largest market. that is why i would like to draw the commission's attention from here today to farmers, but also to our fishermen, so that it takes account of and acts on the possible consequences of this crisis on the markets and establishes the aid that may be necessary for the fisheries and aquaculture sector. i urge the commission to take all the necessary measures to help the sector, including, where appropriate, the temporary modification of the quotas allocated annually, as well as the establishment of aid, either in relation to storage - and a clear example of this need is the species of the marujito, of great importance for galicia - or in the promotion of new markets or extraordinary aid not included in the maritime and fisheries fund. the european union must act in this area immediately. both the agricultural and fisheries sectors rely on it.
madam president, i believe that the debate on this question is as necessary as the sanctions being imposed on russia for its role in the conflict in ukraine. i hope that the path of dialogue - which is clearer today than in august - will bear fruit, but the producers and processors of agricultural and fishery products cannot be the pagans of these measures. i would like to stress the fisheries sector in particular. russia imported fresh or processed fishery products from europe worth €115 million. i would like to know whether, as the commissioner announced in her blog, resources from the maritime and fisheries fund will be mobilised without further ado to compensate for these losses; whether part of the non-storageable products in the medium term can be systematically dedicated to alleviating the needs of the europeans most affected by the crisis; and finally, how the proposal on unused quotas last year will be implemented in order to improve the income expectations for the sector in 2015.
madam president, i am certainly not opposed to the embargo against russia, to the sanctions against russia, but the response given by the european commission is certainly neither effective nor sufficient for sectors which, in some territories, are strategic sectors because of their importance: for example, the dairy sector or the fisheries sector in the region of galicia, where i come from. the european union must therefore be asked to provide more resources. we are talking about exports of a great deal in the face of rather insufficient resources budgeted by the union. therefore, more resources are needed. what is happening is the result of a decision by the european union and therefore should not be the responsibility of the common agricultural policy. extraordinary resources must be allocated and this must be done more quickly and more efficiently.
mr president, commissioner, the objectives of the neighbourhood policy are to create an area of stability, prosperity and democracy and a framework for the peaceful settlement of conflicts. this is not an easy task: the political and economic challenges facing our neighbours are enormous and our commitment to supporting a transition in these countries towards democratic societies must be stronger than ever. we have many reasons for this commitment: the pressure of migration, which is constantly increasing; the threat to our security due to the instability of the region; the energy problems which force us to look to the maghreb; or the economic potential for our economies of a mediterranean union with stable and growing countries. trade plays an essential role in this process of change: we must continue to strengthen the process of trade integration between the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean and also between them and the european union. in negotiating these agreements, the commission must ensure an ambitious level of liberalisation in key areas such as services, investment and public procurement. at a time when much of the efforts and resources of the commission's trade and external agenda are focusing on other geographical areas, i believe that strengthening trade integrity and integration with euromed should be a priority for the european commission.
member of the commission. - mr president, the commission is aware of bolivian law no 548 on children and adolescents, adopted on 17 july 2014, which aims to ensure a high level of protection for children in bolivia. for example, unicef has commended this law for reinforcing bolivia’s commitments under ilo convention no 182 on the ‘prohibition and immediate action for the elimination of the worst forms of child labour’, which bolivia ratified in 2003. moreover, the bolivian ombudsman found that the law has strengthened the legal framework in key areas relating to the protection of children, such as infanticide, access to health and education, identity, and the right to childhood and life. however, both organisations have expressed concerns over the provisions which lowered the minimum working age for children in an apparent contradiction of bolivia’s commitments under ilo convention no 138 concerning the minimum age for admission to employment. the commission shares these concerns. we are actively engaging the bolivian government on this issue, and in parallel it is consulting the ilo to assess these provisions in the light of convention no 138. the gsp monitoring is an integral part of the revised gsp+ system and its aim is to help the commission assess gsp+ beneficiaries and the effective implementation of the gsp+ conventions. in the case of bolivia, the commission has already issued a scoreboard to bolivia in february 2014 addressing aspects of the implementation of relevant gsp+ conventions which require further work or clarification. bolivia has been cooperating with the commission and provided a reply in may 2014. following this initial exchange, the commission officially communicated with the bolivian authorities on 18 july 2014 – one day after the adoption of the bolivian law that is of concern to honourable members of the european parliament. the commission is expecting bolivia’s comments on the issue by today. the commission will review bolivia’s response and liaise with the ilo – the monitoring body for convention no 182 – before deciding on the next steps. we will keep parliament and the member states informed accordingly.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i agree with your prudence. i think your response has been prudent. and i think that a decision by the commission on bolivia, because of this law, would be hasty and would cause greater harm. i am in a hurry because, as you have said, we must wait for the explanation from the bolivian government, which has it. secondly, because the ilo, as you have said, is going to draw up a report which is going to be the most important report on what this violation of this fundamental convention on the right of children to work is. and thirdly, because i think that, honestly, we have to admit that the bolivian government has wanted to respond to a real problem and that is that 60% of children in bolivia work, ladies and gentlemen. and it's that, unfortunately, 90 percent of child labor in bolivia is informal, it's outside the law. the problem, of course, is that the question we all have is whether it is good to have a law protecting child labour or, on the contrary, it is better not to have one. i think we must be cautious and above all, we must respect those countries. i was appointed president of the parliament's delegation to the eurolat assembly a few days ago. i know latin america, i speak to the latin american ambassadors and they ask us not to give them lessons in democracy every day. and this is already very important. let's respect them. let's talk to them. let us work to ensure that they make progress in respecting fundamental rights. but above all - and i think it's very important to remember this - let's not condemn children in bolivia to slave labor. i think we must take this reality into account in order to make the most appropriate and prudent decision, and my group, commissioner, is with you on your words of caution and expectation.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the regulations on child labour in bolivia are in complete breach of the relevant international conventions, both as regards employees and selfemployed workers, but it is necessary to draw attention to two points. the defence of the rights of children is a universal cause that knows no boundaries; nor should it depend on the economic power, size or interests we have in countries that allow child exploitation. on the other hand, it is very striking that a rule such as the one we are dealing with is considered in bolivia as an advance for the victims of exploitation and is also the result of an agreement with some of the organizations that associate with the minors who work, nothing less than because it makes visible and gives rights to a part of the population that, for very diverse cultural, economic or socio-political reasons, is part of the workforce of bolivia. among the children who work in that country are the more than nine hundred who are abandoned on the streets each year, adolescents who live in mistreatment or misery, and even those who consider working at ten years of age to be part of the educational process. i therefore ask whether, in addition to the sanctioning position, other actions are being considered to tackle the root of this evil in the countries where it occurs, and whether steps such as this, by making this problem visible, can contribute to solving it. i also want to know how many gsp countries have problems arising from non-compliance with the child labour convention, and how many of those aspiring to be integrated might have them.
mr president, the majority of basque society has two political priorities: peace and self-determination. and a clear electoral majority supports it, as our presence in this parliament also reflects. it is time to achieve all our rights as people and as a people, including also the right of the basque citizenship to be what they decide democratically. and the resolution of the basque political conflict is also a european matter. this parliament has the opportunity to urge the spanish and french governments once again to be courageous, to favour solutions and not to maintain past policies and strategies based on 'no' and revenge, as illustrated by the political trial which will begin next week in the spanish national court against 28 young people or the accident suffered by the families of prisoners this weekend, the result of the dispersion policy. i encourage this parliament to work for peace and self-determination in harmony with the majority of basque society. that's our commitment!
(the speaker begins his speech in catalan) mr president, catalonia is an old european nation, a political subject, aware of what it is and even more of what it is trying to achieve by acting in that capacity. and from catalonia comes a powerful and clear voice, a democratic way to legitimize the decision it wants to make about its own future. europe cannot and must not ignore the freely expressed aspiration of a society committed to building its own future as much as that of europe itself. europe is changing. scotland and catalonia are also positive illustrations of this profound change: the change in the distribution of power between the 'new europe' under construction and each of its peoples, nations and states. we want more europe to be a better catalonia. and we want to be a state in order to make europe better, to give it our most valuable social, cultural and economic contribution.
mr president, the territorial problems faced by european nations such as the basque country, catalonia and flanders require solutions such as the one that will be applied this week in scotland: not to impose a solution that, by imposition, is never a solution and not to prevent the citizens from being able to debate and decide. in short, politics and democracy. in short: dialogue, agreements and citizens' ratification. i therefore call for the content of the strasbourg declaration to be applied to european arbitration, so that the rights of all citizens of the union are equal when a member state refuses to follow this simple pattern. these territorial tensions are yet another symptom of the decline of the traditional states and an opportunity to renew the concept of nation and to build the federal europe that parties like mine have been working on for seven decades.
mr president, mr telička, i too come from a country which was left alone by the so-called democratic powers at the end of the 1930s. but let's not be hypocrites. i don't know whether to laugh or cry hearing certain things said here. i'll choose to laugh. there's a rap group in my country that has a very funny song that says "let the ussr return". in the end, it seems that the ussr will be brought to us, again, by nato, just as it brought the fundamentalists to us. remember, your honours, when rambo was fighting with bin laden in afghanistan? we have been talking about freedom and democracy. but this has nothing to do with freedom and democracy. it's about geopolitics. and the question we have to ask ourselves is whether we are going to assume that european foreign policy is going to be a pawn on a chessboard run by the united states or whether we are going to be serious enough to have a foreign policy of our own that does not put europeans at risk.
mr president, i am pleased that we are rapidly approving the association agreement between the european union and ukraine. we are sending a clear message of support to the country at this critical time. in the 21st century we cannot go back to periods prior to the helsinki act itself, which, already 40 years ago, recognised the right of each state to choose the organisations and alliances to which it wanted to belong. we cannot go back to anachronisms such as spheres of influence, or to illegal practices such as the use of force and the violation of sovereignty and territorial integrity. the approval of the agreement with ukraine is consistent with the values of freedom, peace and respect for the sovereignty of countries. these are the values with which we european countries identify ourselves, and which russia should share. the agreement is not against anyone. trilateral talks have been under way for months to resolve problems in its implementation. it would be useful, commissioner, to know more about what happened at friday's meeting: the scope and reasons for the decisions taken. and that's the end of it. over the last 20 years we have sought to build a relationship of trust and partnership with russia in the european union. but the indispensable framework for this relationship is respect for international law, which russia is unfortunately forgetting.
mr president, i am struck by the belligerence i hear in this parliament, warmongering words that fan the flames of conflict and the danger of war. some of the epp group members were talking about a large-scale russian invasion: i would like to see the evidence, because the only evidence i have seen is a civilian satellite - perhaps the same evidence they used to carry out the illegal invasion of iraq. who is interested in not having good neighbourliness with russia? because it is not good neighborliness to give the green light to a violent change of government with neo-nazi elements; nor is it good neighborliness to expand nato or the missile shield or the sanctions, those which they did not want to apply with over 600 children killed in gaza. using a trade agreement as a weapon is not good neighborliness either. ladies and gentlemen, stop fanning the flames of war; stop playing the game of those who do not want a europe with normal relations with its neighbours; stop fanning the fire in europe with the gasoline of american interests.
in writing. - i voted categorically against the eu-ukraine association agreement because of the political implications of its signing for that country and the region. in fact, it was the signing of this association agreement that led to the coup d'état in ukraine, encouraged by the us and the eu itself against the legitimate president, yanukovich. i will in no way support an association agreement with an illegitimate government that has emerged from a coup d'état, which also has fascist members in it. an association agreement, on the other hand, is used by the eu as a weapon against russia. the eu, rather than promoting its commercial interests, should promote an immediate cessation of hostilities and a comprehensive peace agreement for ukraine.
in writing. - i voted categorically against the eu-ukraine association agreement because of the political implications of its signing for that country and the region. in fact, it was the signing of this association agreement that led to the coup d'état in ukraine, encouraged by the us and the eu itself against the legitimate president, yanukovich. i will in no way support an association agreement with an illegitimate government that has emerged from a coup d'état, which also has fascist members in it. an association agreement, on the other hand, is used by the eu as a weapon against russia. the eu, rather than promoting its commercial interests, should promote an immediate cessation of hostilities and a comprehensive peace agreement for ukraine.
in writing. - the vote was against ratification of the eu-ukraine association agreement, with the exception of the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed as workers in the territory of the other party, because in this context of internal conflict and the current weakness of the ceasefire, the conditions are not right for such an agreement, which could become a factor in re-igniting tensions between the east and kiev. moreover, such ratification has been proposed without the existence of a thorough and democratic debate which would be appropriate for such a deep-rooted agreement.
in writing. - the vote was against ratification of the eu-ukraine association agreement, with the exception of the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed as workers in the territory of the other party, because in this context of internal conflict and the current weakness of the ceasefire, the conditions are not right for such an agreement, which could become a factor in re-igniting tensions between the east and kiev. moreover, such ratification has been proposed without the existence of a thorough and democratic debate which would be appropriate for such a deep-rooted agreement.
in writing. - i voted categorically against the eu-ukraine association agreement because of the political implications of its signing for that country and the region. in fact, it was the signing of this association agreement that led to the coup d'état in ukraine, encouraged by the us and the eu itself against the legitimate president, yanukovich. i will in no way support an association agreement with an illegitimate government that has emerged from a coup d'état, which also has fascist members in it. an association agreement, on the other hand, is used by the eu as a weapon against russia. the eu, rather than favouring its commercial interests, should promote an immediate cessation of hostilities and a comprehensive peace agreement for ukraine.
in writing. i have given my full support to the association agreement between the european union and ukraine. i consider this moment without any exaggeration historic. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against organised crime. as a czech, i understand very well how important a pro-western orientation is for the peoples of our region. i was therefore honoured to vote in favour of this document as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. - the vote was against ratification of the eu-ukraine association agreement, with the exception of the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed as workers in the territory of the other party, because in this context of internal conflict and the current weakness of the ceasefire, the conditions are not right for such an agreement, which could become a factor in re-igniting tensions between the east and kiev. moreover, such ratification has been proposed without the existence of a thorough and democratic debate which would be appropriate for such a deep-rooted agreement.
in writing. - i voted categorically against the eu-ukraine association agreement because of the political implications of its signing for that country and the region. in fact, it was the signing of this association agreement that led to the coup d'état in ukraine, encouraged by the us and the eu itself against the legitimate president, yanukovich. i will in no way support an association agreement with an illegitimate government that has emerged from a coup d'état, which also has fascist members in it. an association agreement, on the other hand, is used by the eu as a weapon against russia. the eu, rather than favouring its commercial interests, should promote an immediate cessation of hostilities and a comprehensive peace agreement for ukraine.
in writing. - i am very happy to have voted in favour of this association agreement and i am sure the parliament will speak with a very strong majority in favour of it. this is an historic moment. the european parliament has always defended the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine and will continue to do so through this vote. through this ratification, ukraine’s european choice will be institutionalised and will bind the futures of the eu and ukraine together. ukrainian society has paid the highest price for its european aspirations, grieving for the deaths of numerous people, suffering territorial occupation by russia and experiencing deteriorating economic conditions. with this ratification, the eu gives ukraine the strongest sign of support.
in writing. - i voted categorically against the eu-ukraine association agreement because of the political implications of its signing for that country and the region. in fact, it was the signing of this association agreement that led to the coup d'état in ukraine, encouraged by the us and the eu itself against the legitimate president, yanukovich. i will in no way support an association agreement with an illegitimate government that has emerged from a coup d'état, which also has fascist members in it. an association agreement, on the other hand, is used by the eu as a weapon against russia. the eu, rather than favouring its commercial interests, should promote an immediate cessation of hostilities and a comprehensive peace agreement for ukraine.
in writing. - i voted categorically against the eu-ukraine association agreement because of the political implications of its signing for that country and the region. in fact, it was the signing of this association agreement that led to the coup d'état in ukraine, encouraged by the us and the eu itself against the legitimate president, yanukovich. i will in no way support an association agreement with an illegitimate government that has emerged from a coup d'état, which also has fascist members in it. an association agreement, on the other hand, is used by the eu as a weapon against russia. the eu, rather than favouring its commercial interests, should promote an immediate cessation of hostilities and a comprehensive peace agreement for ukraine.
in writing. - i voted categorically against the eu-ukraine association agreement because of the political implications of its signing for that country and the region. in fact, it was the signing of this association agreement that led to the coup d'état in ukraine, encouraged by the us and the eu itself against the legitimate president, yanukovich. i will in no way support an association agreement with an illegitimate government that has emerged from a coup d'état, which also has fascist members in it. an association agreement, on the other hand, is used by the eu as a weapon against russia. the eu, rather than favouring its commercial interests, should promote an immediate cessation of hostilities and a comprehensive peace agreement for ukraine.
in writing. - this report on the treatment of thirdcountry nationals legally employed as workers in the territory of the other party was voted in favour because it refers exclusively to the fact that workers who are nationals of ukraine and legally employed in the territory of an eu member state shall not suffer any discrimination on grounds of their nationality as regards working conditions, pay or dismissal as compared to nationals of that member state.
in writing. - i voted categorically against the eu-ukraine association agreement because of the political implications of its signing for that country and the region. in fact, it was the signing of this association agreement that led to the coup d'état in ukraine, encouraged by the us and the eu itself against the legitimate president, yanukovich. i will in no way support an association agreement with an illegitimate government that has emerged from a coup d'état, which also has fascist members in it. an association agreement, on the other hand, is used by the eu as a weapon against russia. the eu, rather than favouring its commercial interests, should promote an immediate cessation of hostilities and a comprehensive peace agreement for ukraine.
in writing. - this report on the treatment of thirdcountry nationals legally employed as workers in the territory of the other party was voted in favour because it refers exclusively to the fact that workers who are nationals of ukraine and legally employed in the territory of an eu member state shall not suffer any discrimination on grounds of their nationality as regards working conditions, pay or dismissal as compared to nationals of that member state.
in writing. - this report on the treatment of thirdcountry nationals legally employed as workers in the territory of the other party was voted in favour because it refers exclusively to the fact that workers who are nationals of ukraine and legally employed in the territory of an eu member state shall not suffer any discrimination on grounds of their nationality as regards working conditions, pay or dismissal as compared to nationals of that member state.
in writing. - i voted categorically against the eu-ukraine association agreement because of the political implications of its signing for that country and the region. in fact, it was the signing of this association agreement that led to the coup d'état in ukraine, encouraged by the us and the eu itself against the legitimate president, yanukovich. i will in no way support an association agreement with an illegitimate government that has emerged from a coup d'état, which also has fascist members in it. an association agreement, on the other hand, is used by the eu as a weapon against russia. the eu, rather than favouring its commercial interests, should promote an immediate cessation of hostilities and a comprehensive peace agreement for ukraine.
in writing. – this is an historic and very important date. our vote today has very strong economic consequences but is also highly symbolic! i am very happy to have voted in favour of this association agreement and i am sure the parliament will speak with a very strong majority in favour of it. this is an historic moment. the european parliament has always defended the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine and will continue to do so through this vote. through this ratification, ukraine’s european choice will be institutionalised and will bind the futures of the eu and ukraine together. ukrainian society has paid the highest price for its european aspirations, grieving for the deaths of numerous people, suffering territorial occupation by russia and experiencing deteriorating economic conditions. with this ratification, the eu gives ukraine the strongest sign of support.
in writing. - i voted categorically against the eu-ukraine association agreement because of the political implications of its signing for that country and the region. in fact, it was the signing of this association agreement that led to the coup d'état in ukraine, encouraged by the us and the eu itself against the legitimate president, yanukovich. i will in no way support an association agreement with an illegitimate government that has emerged from a coup d'état, which also has fascist members in it. an association agreement, on the other hand, is used by the eu as a weapon against russia. the eu, rather than favouring its commercial interests, should promote an immediate cessation of hostilities and a comprehensive peace agreement for ukraine.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. those are short-term measures. and in the longer term, we can talk about delivering the europe 2020 strategy and, above all, making the european union competitive in the world we live in. and for that we must invest, and i think we must invest in order to be able to compete in this world in knowledge, and that is why i think we must strengthen, as they very well said, the funds devoted to research, development, education and support for small and mediumsized enterprises. we can also talk about infrastructure or even energy, which is one of the great challenges facing the european union in the future. but when we look at the details and the funding that the council wants to devote to these programmes and that which the european parliament wants to devote, that is where we see the big difference. because we, in our reading - and you will see the agreements we reach in the coming days - are going to strengthen many of these programmes, and you, in your reading of the council, are cutting, for example, 195 million in research and development, 35 million in the connecting europe facility or 75 million in large-scale infrastructure. and so we see that there is a contradiction between what the councils decide - in what the ecofin said, in what the european councils said in june last year - and what they then do in the european budget. and this is about commitment. but if you look at the payments, we're in a much more serious situation. and the problem is that you, with your reading of the budget, not only do not solve the problem, but you aggravate it. we are ending 2013 with 25 billion euros in unpaid bills and, in this budget, instead of reinforcing that line, they want to cut it by a further 2.1 billion. they said that the cuts were feasible; i think the commission has made it very clear that these cuts are not being feasible. i will not go into the technical details - the commission has explained the situation very well - but i do want to say two things: firstly, cutting the budget in payments is not saving the budget, because all they are doing is not paying what we owe, because they are not complying with the financial framework agreements and because worst of all they are delaying the start-up of projects which are vital for the future of the european union. and cutting i think is a double mistake in the european budget, because if they want to solve national finances by cutting the european budget, it is clear that they will not get it. the problem is that they are denying the added value of the budget and i think we are not recognising the european project as such. in conclusion, i simply ask the italian presidency, in all seriousness, to look closely at the problem of payments and to study very thoroughly the possible solutions within the council. if you really tackle this problem, you will have this parliament helping and working side by side to prevent this from going ahead.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the requests for the multiannual financial framework, we know that there is a possibility of revising it in the medium term in the light of changes in the macroeconomic scenario. clearly this is not the specific place where we can address this issue. we have to talk about the draft budget for 2015 in the current multiannual financial framework. in this context i think i can say that we are not going to question in any way what the priorities are, but clearly we are going to decline them in the implementation phase of budgetary choices with a gradual approach. a gradual approach based on two fundamental points. the first, as i have tried to point out earlier, is that the council's position is that the 2015 budget will be an expansionary budget compared with the 2014 budget, and that it will not be less than what would emerge from the consideration of the commission's further proposals for the 2014 amending budget, on which, as we know, the council's position for that year is still being evaluated, but for 2015 the council's position is already a starting point which, compared with the previous year, is seen as an end point, so there is no reduction. in addition, alongside this stake, there is the other stake, which consists of the declaration annexed to the council's position inviting the commission to present amending budgets for 2015 where appropriate, namely for matters relating to payments. with regard to the subject of competitiveness for growth and employment, that is heading 1a, i would like to recall the figures, because in relation to this heading the council's position has set commitments at seventeen hundred billion, a reduction of three hundred and twenty-four million euros compared to the commission's proposal, but nevertheless an increase of six hundred and forty million euros compared to the 2014 budget, and payments at 14.2 billion euros, a reduction of 1.3 billion compared to the commission's proposal, but nevertheless an increase of 2.8 billion compared to the 2014 budget. and it is also important, i think, to stress that absolutely no reduction compared to the commission proposal was foreseen under this heading by the council in terms of resources for small and medium-sized enterprises, for investment in research and innovation through the cosme programme, and for education and skills development through the erasmus+ programme, while the appropriations in payment for horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, which, although they were the focus of much of the reductions proposed by the council for this heading, have nevertheless increased compared to 2014. the cef programme has seen an increase in payment appropriations of almost 60% and horizon 2020 of over 30%. the council is also fully aware of the crucial importance of the eu budget and its role in boosting growth and employment, particularly in the current context of the emergence from a prolonged economic crisis. the council wishes to ensure adequate financing of the european union's priorities, particularly as regards youth unemployment, research and innovation funding and support for small and mediumsized enterprises, but, as we have recalled, the council itself cannot refrain from adopting a realistic approach in preparing the eu budget, based both on past and present utilization rates of appropriations and on the foreseeable absorption capacity of european funding. that said, while thanking you for this interesting and constructive exchange of views, i am sure that a good understanding of our mutual positions will be the necessary precondition for reaching agreement on the 2015 budget and i believe that today's discussion is a good starting point. the italian presidency will do its utmost to reach an agreement, in a constructive spirit, with a view to responding in the best possible way to the expectations of the european citizens, because we know that europe needs a budget which responds adequately to the demands of the citizens and i am sure that together, parliament, the council and the commission, we will be able, we will be able, to find the right way to achieve this goal.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, horizon 2020 is the largest framework programme for research and innovation in the european union ever established. its budget for the 2014-2020 programming period is over eur 77 billion, which represents a de facto increase of around one third of the funding available for research and investment compared to the seventh framework programme for research allocations foreseen under the 2007-2013 programming period. the reason for this substantial increase, decided by the heads of state or government, is the political will to increase spending on research and investment, which are essential to stimulate european competitiveness and growth. horizon 2020 is therefore our common objective and the most important pan-european research programme agreed in the context of the eu 2020 strategy. on the 2014 budget, the commission, in its proposal for amending budget no 3, provided for an increase in the research budget of around eur 230 million, most of which was earmarked for the horizon 2020 programme. the council's position on this proposal is being defined in preparation for discussion with the european parliament and its approval. as regards the 2015 budget, as i also had the opportunity to point out earlier, the council adopted its position on 2 september, with some reductions compared to the commission's proposal for appropriations as regards the level of payments. this position has just been presented in detail and i would like to emphasize in this connection that it must be read as a whole as an effort to mediate between the needs of adequate support for the various community policies, especially those aimed at growth and employment, and at the same time safeguarding budgetary discipline. the council is convinced that its position on the draft budget for 2015 strikes the right balance between these needs in line with the political priorities set by the european council for a more competitive europe. i would also like to point out that, although the appropriation for horizon 2020 is reduced compared to the amount proposed by the european commission in its draft budget for 2015, in the council's position it is nevertheless increased by 33%, as we recalled a short while ago, compared to the appropriation currently entered in the 2014 budget. this shows that the council has not been insensitive to the objectives of this programme. the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the financing of the european solidarity corps, which is the main instrument for the implementation of the european solidarity corps. at the same time, for other expenditure items, such as heading 1 (b) on the structural funds and the cohesion fund, the commission has stressed the need to meet expenditure commitments already made and reports already submitted by the member states, for which the council has therefore indeed limited reductions to the minimum. as you can see, the exercise was very difficult, as the situations are complex and varied and all require the attention of the institutions, which are therefore obliged to make choices in a situation of public finances that is certainly not favourable. i am confident that together with parliament we will be able to reach an agreement as soon as possible to give europe its budget and ensure full operational capacity for all policies, including, and indeed starting with, horizon 2020.
comhalta de chuid an choimisiúin. - a uachtaráin, tá mé buíoch gur eagraíodh díospóireacht thábhachtach den tsórt seo inniu. parliament’s decision to include a debate on the structural shortage of payments in the horizon 2020 budget is very timely, particularly just after the debate we have had already with commissioner dominik. since 2011, research and innovation programmes have suffered from a recurrent and accumulating lack of payment appropriations, and i will return to this in more detail in a few minutes. the situation has deteriorated under horizon 2020 because the payment ceilings provided for in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework are tight. this situation has obliged the commission to put in place drastic measures in order to meet its contractual obligations and to avoid payment delays. two key measures have been adopted already in 2013: firstly a reduction of the average pre-financing rates for all research grants; and secondly the postponement of calls for proposal closure dates, thus spreading the payment needs to later years. the implementation of these drastic measures has reduced payments by up to eur 1.5 billion in research programmes for the year 2014. we should not forget that these payment appropriation needs are, in reality, merely being pushed back to 2015 and beyond. indeed, if current trends continue, such unmet accumulated payment needs would result in more than 40% of horizon 2020 commitments remaining outstanding in 2020 and without proper payment coverage. however, these measures will no longer suffice to avoid payment delays if the requested payment appropriations are not met. in short, the approach of putting off to the future has reached its limits. concretely, for 2014 and despite the implementation of these measures, an additional eur 230 million, requested through draft amending budget 3/2014, is urgently needed before the end of the year for the research dgs to avoid payment delays. in addition to this already challenging situation, i must draw attention to the sword of damocles that hangs over horizon 2020 in the 2015 budget. the proposed 10% cut in the commission’s draft budget for research payment appropriations – representing a eur 1 billion decrease for the research budget – would lead to a situation where research dgs could fail in their contractual obligations to thousands of research beneficiaries. in practical terms, let me repeat what commissioner dominik has already mentioned to you: around 600 collaborative projects under horizon 2020 would be affected, involving more than 7000 participants, of which around 1400 are smes. i believe it is important to clarify one particular issue with regard to this proposed 10% cut in funding. some would seek to obscure the reality by presenting the situation on heading 1a as some sort of a huge increase for r&d spending by comparison with 2014. what such a narrative fails to mention is that 2014 constituted a highly atypical year in terms of the scale of the payment appropriations budget for research and innovation. indeed, in 2014, due to the phasing-in of horizon 2020, some 15% less has been budgeted by comparison with 2013. the ‘increased spending’ narrative neglects two important factors: the step increase of the commitment profile in the last years of the seventh framework programme (fp7), as fp7 was backloaded; and, secondly, the overall limited availability of payments which we face. thus, 2014 cannot be used as a valid benchmark for judging the budget trend in 2015. in fact, 60% of our spending in 2014 and 2015 is actually legacy-related payments from fp7, meaning that the full roll-out of horizon 2020 is, de facto, being pushed even further into the future due to the lack of payment appropriations. in short, an outcome which provided for a cut in spending on the scale originally proposed by the commission for 2015 would seriously call into question the reputation of the european union as a reliable funder of research. this is a dramatic situation for a flagship policy that is intended to support jobs, growth and competitiveness. it is also highly regrettable in the current economic situation, given our collective search for growth-enhancing measures and knowing that research and innovation are crucial to new growth and jobs. such artificially low investment in research will also negatively impact on other initiatives such as the digital agenda, the energy technologies plan and our climate change policies. such a large cut in 2015 would, moreover, be at odds with repeated affirmations in support of the europe 2020 growth and jobs agenda, most recently articulated through the strategic agenda for the union in times of change. it goes without saying, therefore, that a new boost for jobs, growth and investment cannot be achieved if we continue to reduce planned investments in research and innovation. we are counting on you, the members of the european parliament, to give us your active support in addressing this problem by adopting without modification both draft amending budget 3/2014 and the draft budget for 2015 as presented by the commission.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated that the seventh framework programme, the predecessor of horizon 2020, has produced between seven and fourteen euros of industrial added value for every euro invested. its long-term impact is estimated at a 1% increase in the union's gross domestic product, the creation of almost one million jobs and a 1.5 percentage point increase in exports. we can disagree on many things in this house, but i think that none of us here can deny, or even downplay, the immense importance that the horizon 2020 programme can have for european science, nor its clear and proven multiplier effect on our battered economy. however, in its position on the 2015 budget, the council proposes cuts for horizon 2020 of eur 190 million in appropriations and eur 980 million in payments, literally starving many of the programmes already under way. if you want a europe of einsteins, curies, cajales and hawkings, if you want a europe that leads the world - not only in science but also in technological and industrial innovation and in the creation of sustainable and quality jobs - if you want this europe and not one that is content to let others invent, innovate and manufacture, the only logical position is to reject the unacceptable cuts proposed by the council and to mobilise the contingency margin and the flexibility instrument provided for in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 to provide the programme with the resources it deserves.
madam president, i too would like to express my concern and ask the council to commit itself to the horizon 2020 programme, because the situation we are discussing today is a serious one, if not a situation of clumsiness on the part of the council. i would also like to begin by thanking the commissioner for her clear explanation. horizon 2020 is a flagship programme for the europe of 2020 and, especially at the moment, it is a crucial programme, given the youth unemployment rate which we could describe as unbearable in europe. europe has the challenge of growth and competitiveness, but the truth is that, so far, the only measure we have seen put on the table to work towards that competitiveness has been a reduction in wages in each of the member states to combat the crisis, that is, an impoverishment of workers. but even if we believe in this measure, it is clearly insufficient. in the medium and long term, it is essential to focus on knowledge, innovation and quality jobs. that is why horizon 2020 was created, and although we are increasingly having doubts about the council's position, it reduced it by 30% compared with the european parliament's proposal of 100 billion, and finally left it with an allocation of 70 billion. the 2014 budget was reduced, and we are told that in 2015 it will also be reduced, by 190 million euros. the commissioner's speech highlights the serious problem of non-payment of the programmes committed, which puts thousands of businesses at risk, many of them small and mediumsized enterprises. what we are asking for is a commitment from the council, a commitment to the future of young people, to the future of the european union and, above all, to entrepreneurs, to smes, to industry and to the scientific community, to whom we gave so much hope when we adopted horizon 2020 in 2011. so let us look to the future, let us put this shortsightedness and shortsightedness behind us, and let us put behind us such clumsy positions as we are debating today, which would bring about the collapse of such an important programme for the economic recovery of the european union.
madam president, the horizon 2020 programme has the potential to improve europe's industrial base and to fund important public research in areas of high social interest, provided that it incorporates criteria of territorial cohesion, public service and the democratisation of science into the objectives of research, development and innovation. and yet it also has some negative aspects, such as encouraging the subordination of research to commercial objectives and abandoning fields such as basic research. research is also concentrated in a few focus areas, which implies a negative redistribution of technological potential between research centres with strong links to the private sector. this accentuates the competitive disadvantages in the production structure of each member state, and thereby increases the imbalances between the centre and the periphery. but the most negative aspect we are seeing today is the cut that the council is announcing for next year compared to 2013. this reduction is concentrated in health, environment, climate change or marie curie programmes, which should be among the priority sectors to receive funding. this can't be happening. it is precisely in these budgets that we must invest so that they are not the new scapegoat for austerity in europe.
mr president, commissioner, is the digital single market an opportunity? yes, but there is not much time left for it to become a reality: 100 million europeans do not have access to the internet today; 12% of european companies do not trade or have no possibility of doing so; and only 12% of europeans shop in member states other than their own. commissioner, there will be no real digital single market unless small and mediumsized enterprises, which account for 90% of jobs in the european union, are integrated into it in a rapid and efficient way. and for that, we need a strategy, a real action plan that is politically coordinated, that is heavily funded and that is implemented quickly, because europe is once again missing the train - the train, in this case, of the digital single market, because there are many economic areas, other than the european union, that give us a lot of advantage in this field - and we have to correct that. and for all this we need your successor, mr commissioner, to coordinate with the new employment commissioner to use the training funds to make e-commerce accessible to small and mediumsized enterprises; we need him to coordinate with the economic team to facilitate funding routes to modernise our enterprises; we need him to coordinate with the innovation team to correct the shortcomings we have in broadband and also, for example, in 4g. and above all, we need you to coordinate with your legal team to maintain the necessary protection of consumer rights in the face of the new challenges posed by electronic commerce in this field too.
mr president, it is worth reiterating in this house that the european digital single market is a priority. it is a priority because it will be one of the pillars of growth in europe in the years to come. and if we are demanding and ambitious with the european project - and i am certainly that - if we want more europe, we need growth. achieving a truly integrated digital single market would mean achieving an increase in gross domestic product of at least 4%. we are talking about 500 billion over a period of ten years. the european union has adopted a number of initiatives in recent years to promote the digital economy and to seize the growth opportunities it offers. i want to salute in this context the magnificent work that has already been done by commissioner michel barnier and his team. the future juncker commission also aims at the digital single market as one of its standards. in fact, the development of the digital single market must be at the heart of the european union's efforts to generate economic growth and jobs, as well as to strengthen the union's competitiveness and resilience within the global economy. the european commission and the member states must jointly promote the application of existing rules and regulations and, where necessary, impose sanctions. the commission must ensure that existing legislation is implemented swiftly in order to further open up the single market in services. the commission should, in my view, ensure the implementation and enforcement of rules such as the consumer rights directive, alternative dispute resolution and online dispute resolution, while ensuring that administrative burdens are reduced. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. in the same vein, ensuring a vibrant digital economy in the european union depends on strict application of competition rules in the digital single market. the indexing, evaluation, presentation and ranking of search engines should be impartial and transparent, while for interlinked services, search engines should ensure full transparency in displaying search results.
madam president, i am more pessimistic than the commission. it's not just that they turn a blind eye to climate change, it's that many states are actively working in the wrong direction. it is still a game of buying and selling emission allowances, a game of big corporations; there is no political will or vision to develop an economy based on renewable energy; and it is clear that they will not meet the already insufficient obligations for 2030 in climate policy. and now they nominate mr arias cañete as european commissioner for climate and energy. i acknowledge their consistency - it would be perfect to continue in the wrong direction - but i invite them to reconsider. it's a bad choice for the environment. ladies and gentlemen, let's send the right message to society, to the youth. let's act, let's address the structural causes of climate change now and change the system that generates them. the public sector must finance the transition to economic models based on renewable energy, food sovereignty, public transport, education... it's not utopia, it's social justice, it's economic justice, and it's what the climate needs.
madam president, it has already been said here that the new york summit is not binding, but it is important. in view of the latest scientific data, there is no longer any room for extension or postponement. that is why it is essential that the european union, which has been the undisputed leader against climate change in the past, does not turn its back on ban ki-moon. and for that, gestures count. climate change is not fought by penalizing renewable energy, or by selling natural spaces to the highest bidder, or by unwisely opening the door to fracking, or by betting exclusively on fossil fuels. that's not how you fight climate change. we would not like the united nations to start looking at the european bench with uneasiness and concern. that is why we in this parliament will be very particular about the role that the new college of commissioners is going to play in this area. it's a lot of responsibility, and any step back would be irresponsible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, life is more important than corporate profits. a member of the house spoke of catastrophism, of the catastrophism of the ecologists. and it's just that we seem to be the only ones who want to have children and grandchildren. putting life at the centre, that's our obligation. with unprecedented concentrations of greenhouse gases and seven million deaths from air pollution - some of them in my province, where mr arias cañete also lives - heads of state and representatives of the most polluting transnational corporations in the world are meeting in new york to continue to dictate to us the policies that fill their pockets. we are told by social and citizen movements: commitments must be made now, renewable energy, local production and consumption. but no, i'm not. my adopted compatriot, mr cañete, who has just put his shares in oil companies up for sale, has been appointed commissioner for climate action and energy. minister of a government that spent 800 million euros buying emission rights to pollute, while cutting back on education, health and social services. thanks for the example.
mr president, commissioner, we are not unaware of the indecent attack on democracy which this agreement entails and which few of you speak of. the secrecy in the negotiations is a response to your fear that people will know what you're up to. the biggest example is the refusal to accept the citizens' initiative to stop this and other agreements of the same kind, which is an absolute contempt for citizenship and the popular will. they are selling out to europeans, because this agreement subjects the rights of citizens to the greed of investors, and the worst thing is that they know it. commissioner, you are not politicians. they're businessmen and they have no credibility. he should be prosecuted in belgium for the alleged tax fraud he is being investigated for. we reject this agreement because, unlike you, we defend the interests of the majority of the people and will carry out their will to the end. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. on october 11th you'll be able to see it all across europe, because it's coming out... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, i am speaking to ask for the withdrawal of ceta. ceta, with isds, means handing over the sovereignty of the peoples to the transnational corporations. secondly, ceta will destroy many more jobs in small and mediumsized enterprises than it will create in the multinationals for which ceta is designed. ceta will also destroy peasant agriculture, especially beef production on small and medium-sized family farms. but there is another reason. we have already spoken in this parliament about climate change: circulating food that we can produce in our villages on a daily basis for short circuits means wasting energy and means emitting greenhouse gases, which also cause climate change. for these reasons and many others which i do not have time to explain, i call for withdrawal from ceta.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mrs hedegaard, i have listened with both interest and expectation to the commission's statement on access to life-saving medicines. let me use this space of debate and responsibility which is the european parliament to bring to the fore the essential priority of our work, which is to serve the general interest. what epidemic nature must a disease acquire to be considered a 'public health crisis'? is the 130 million hepatitis c patients in the world, 10 million of them in the european union, almost 1 million in spain alone, enough? hepatitis c is an infectious disease that, when it becomes chronic, becomes disabling and devastating. it's deadly in half a million cases a year. but now there's a cure. and that cure comes at a price. an unacceptable price of more than eur 50 000 per patient and treatment, set by the company holding the sofosbuvir patent, based exclusively on market criteria. we are not going to resign ourselves to making excuses again to justify the paralysis of european institutions. are we just going to mourn the doom of corporate profit? i think not, your honours. i believe we can act and that the tools exist. member states may apply article 31 of the 2001 doha declaration promoted by the world trade organisation; they may issue a compulsory licence for 'public health needs' and manufacture a generic. they can also legally oppose the patent, as india has already done, since the molecule was previously patented against cancer. or they can negotiate a joint patent assignment payment. or, of course, to choose to form a bloc and make aggregate public purchases. egypt now imports the indian generic sofosbuvir at 100 times the price. another 90 developing countries will also benefit from india's decision. can the commission and this house commit themselves to promoting a common position to defend the general interest and the implementation of the treaties? if we have been able to impose limits on roaming in europe, will we not be able to change the pricing model for medicines that save millions of lives?
mr president, in europe and the united states, drugs are the third cause of death, after cancer and heart disease: there is clearly a need for greater control of the drugs on the market. some 170 million people worldwide have hepatitis c and some 800 000 people in spain; conventional treatment cures about 70%, but has a high number of serious adverse effects, so many patients cannot start it. recently new drugs have been developed which manage to cure the vast majority of patients treated, 95%, without significant side effects, but their price is extraordinarily high, making individual procurement inaccessible to most people who need it and making it difficult for public health systems to afford, given that dozens of people have to be treated. it is unacceptable to set such high prices for such necessary medicines. we demand a reduction in the price of these drugs to make treatment possible. we cannot be silent witnesses to the progressive deterioration and death of these patients when there are effective and safe treatments.
mr president, the european medicines agency approved sofosbuvir a few months ago, which eradicates hepatitis c in 90% of cases and costs at least eur 60 000 per treatment. the first thing the european medicines agency should do is to investigate a possible case of abuse, especially when the company that manufactures it is negotiating with companies in india to sell their technology to produce generics at a cost of 1 400 euros. it is also time to finally unlock the necessary reform of the 1988 directive on the transparency of the pricing of medicines and their reimbursement, and to take measures to ensure the sustainability of the various national health systems. ladies and gentlemen, purchasing power cannot be discriminatory in terms of access to life-saving medicines, such as this one or cancer drugs. health care is not a matter for the european union, but the internal market, competition, intellectual property rights and research are. so let us not allow health to be marketed.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on the preparation of the euro summit (2014/2838 ((rsp)). before we begin the debate, i give the floor to mr glezos, who wishes to speak on a point of order.
mr. warrior, would you like to intervene on a point of order?
mr president, the use of the blue card is a right which the member has: to put a question to a previous speaker. i do not therefore raise the question of the non-existence of that right. what i am proposing is prudence in its use. because, if you are accumulating blue cards, firstly, you are altering the distribution of time allocated to the political groups and, secondly, you are reducing the speaking time of the members who did not have time from their group and who came here at the beginning of the sitting and asked to speak on the 'catch the eye'. i therefore ask the presidency to be extremely cautious and restrictive in the use of the blue card.
mr guerrero, we are being so cautious in this presidency that we have not accepted more than two blue cards in this debate at one time. you will, therefore, understand that we are trying by all means to save time so that your time is yours and no one else's.
mr president, shortly before the summer the european union experienced one of those 'outbreaks of complacency' that we have been witnessing for some years now: the end of the crisis was virtually decreed. but after the summer, it turns out that it seems possible that we're entering a third depression: the oecd has revised growth, and growth is worse for the euro area and for the three big economies in the euro area. why is this happening? because we have turned the european economy into a chronic sickness. a chronic patient to whom we have only given immunosuppressants - austerity at all costs, social cuts, the brake on investment and wage devaluation - and what the european union needs at the moment - the euro economy - is a vitamin shock, a vitamin shock with investment, with growth, with education and with the recovery of the wage level, the loss of which, as has been pointed out, not by the 'friends of the deficit', but by the international monetary fund, the oecd, the world bank and various think tanks, is at the origin of the devaluation of demand as well. without demand there will be no economic recovery; without investment there will be no growth in the european union. without investment and without demand, poverty will continue and a mass of workers will continue to be created who, despite receiving a salary, live below the poverty line.
mr president, i think it is fair to welcome the measures announced by mr draghi, president of the ecb, but let us not be fooled: the european central bank is not going to solve the enormous problems we have. the european central bank will give us time to solve the problems so that we can make the necessary reforms and start creating jobs and economic growth. spain is one example. an example of a reformist country. and it's an example because it's the country that has the most growth in the euro area and it's the country that is creating the most jobs. it is not enough, we are convinced of it. but we have no doubt that it is an example. commissioner, we need not only reforms, but also we need to implement the juncker plan. i hope that this time those plans which we have so often announced will not fall through the cracks and that we will soon see them implemented.
mr president, the measures we are taking at each summit support two ideas: that only from a common position can we face global challenges and that we cannot continue to substitute patches for the construction of economic and political governance. we must either opt for a euro area with a growth model based on the real economy and social development, or we will no longer be the benchmark of progress that we have been for decades. we therefore need binding medium- and long-term measures that are the backbone of europe, investments with european added value in infrastructure and transport that add competitiveness, and shared minimum standards in social policy. these policies must be implemented in a coordinated way in all the member states because everything else is fireworks and political dishonesty. not doing so, commissioner, answers the question you asked about why private investment is being stopped. either we do this, or we will not get out of this economic crisis.
mr president, mr katainen, ladies and gentlemen of the council, after the disastrous economic data this summer, with the three main economies of the euro area in technical unemployment, you have come here today to convey to us once again your blind faith in the combination of austerity and structural reforms. they basically propose that we accelerate, mr katainen, faster and faster towards the precipice. today he insisted again that the problem is that the reforms are not moving fast enough. and now, after the reforms you have imposed on the peripheral countries - spain, greece and portugal - you are going to do the same, or you intend to do the same with france and italy: further reduction of wages, more flexibility in the labour market and further reduction of public service expenditure. meanwhile, the casino economy continues to ride on a european central bank whose liquidity is trapped in the hands of speculators, as my colleague said earlier. mr. katainen, how long is this going to go on? please admit that you were wrong, apologize for the suffering caused and, once and for all, relaunch that investment plan you promised and of which today, frankly, you have told us absolutely nothing. and because we don't have it, we don't even have a date for the euro summit yet. so please, make a 180-degree turn, admit the mistake and change this economic policy that is leading us to suicide.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would have liked to have had a comprehensive debate with members but my flight to the australia g20 meeting is leaving in a few minutes’ time so i have to rush. i would just like to make a couple of comments. mr balz recalled reforms in order to strengthen growth potential. this is a very important issue, because in many of our member states the potential for growth is at a low level. this is why we need various reforms. it depends on the country. we do not need the same reforms in every country, but it depends on the local situation. it is very easy to agree with ms rodrigues, who said that we have to emphasise safeguarding the european social model. she also recalled the need for reforms to strengthen innovation, for instance. this is very important. there are various ways to organise innovation financing in different member states, and we could perhaps copy the best practices from different countries. this is something which could renew europe, and this kind of reform brings us forward. there are many strengths in europe but also some shortages and weaknesses. i personally believe in research and development and innovation. innovation usually means that there must be strong fundamental research and entrepreneurship. so it is not only a question of money but also of how to organise and use public resources better than we are doing at the moment. it is also very important to find a more efficient way to use the eib. mr lucke – if i understood correctly – said that, if we want investment, it does not make sense to consolidate. for me this is not a black and white question, because investment means demand and that there must be a good level of confidence. that is why we have to combine healthy reforms. we need more demand and some consolidation in order to strengthen confidence, and we need european efforts. the commissioners-designate are trying to define this at the moment. i hope that we can continue this debate later on, focusing more on investment and growth.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the opportunity you have given me and the presidency to hear the wide range of views on this subject. the talks went far beyond the specific theme of the euro summit meeting next month. i cannot add much to what i said in my opening speech about that particular meeting. i can assure you that we will be able to say more when the meeting is called. we can certainly have a more detailed discussion at the plenary next month. i would just like to reiterate, in relation to the broad issues of growth and investment that have been raised, that the italian presidency regards as a priority and with extreme urgency the subject and the issues that have been discussed with different positions expressed by the groups and individual members and, in conclusion, i would like to say that i have taken good note of all the points and all the indications that have emerged in this discussion and i will ensure that these points and these indications are conveyed to all the people involved in the preparation of the next euro summit.
in writing. it is disappointing to see how the commission continues to be blind to the reality, not of the data but of the millions of people in europe who, after experiencing firsthand the failure of austerity and structural reforms, continue to face a scenario of lack of economic growth, long-term unemployment, job insecurity, wage devaluation and social deprivation that leads to poverty and exclusion. we need facts. we demand a specific timetable for the investment plan proposed by president juncker, but also commitments from the european leaders on the financial resources they intend to commit to this plan at national but above all at european level. we need expansionary and supportive fiscal policies to stimulate a sclerotic demand which, together with the deflation that is stalking us, condemns us to permanent stagnation. and we need to stop cutting wages, because even the oecd warns us that this has become a problem that can condemn us for many years. we need to dispel the myth of expansionary austerity because expansion is impossible when everyone is saving at once and no one is spending or investing, and it only causes poverty and suffering.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the italian presidency, i have been here for two months and i already have the feeling that i am listening to a little scratched disc. some things: on the implementation of the youth guarantee; we have already discussed on a number of occasions that some countries are applying the youth guarantee badly, in contradiction to the commission's own recommendations. in spain it is only being used as a receptacle for funds to be distributed between companies. there are no training programmes, no support and counselling systems, no supplementary support systems for young people who have no income whatsoever. is the commission planning to do anything about this? and, by the way, in spain, too, very constructive measures are being taken, such as the abolition of the youth council, which the government has done in recent days. the second element is the question of resources. will there be more resources? we know that six billion euros is not enough. thirdly, and this is a comment to the italian presidency: frankly, it seems a bad joke that they come here to tell us that they have not been able to find a date for the summit. it is not that we are genuine fans of summits - because we know that they are often held to talk and not decide anything, which is what young people have had to witness in recent years - but that they have not been able, in the programme of the presidency, to find a date for a summit on an issue which is, fundamentally, one of the most serious problems there is at the moment here in the european union, such as youth unemployment, which seems, frankly, very unimportant.
madam president, mr andor, thank you very much for your work during this time in the commission. i thank you for the courage to take forward an innovative and ambitious initiative such as the youth guarantee, which we must not forget is based on a successful experience, that of austria and finland, and therefore it is even more important that there is a guarantee of success in the countries that are going to join it and that are implementing it. but this is a matter of particular concern to me and that is why i ask the commission and the council to insist on monitoring the implementation of the funds in countries such as spain, which is, as you know, sadly the leader in youth unemployment with almost 54%, because spain receives half the funds of this programme. it is particularly important that we ensure that the use of funds, especially for training, is not subject to fraudulent use as we have seen in madrid and andalusia. it is important that we ask that countries which have to be exemplary in the implementation of a programme like this, such as spain, are not only well supervised, but are required to be a reference.
madam president, we have 5.2 million young people out of work, a figure that is fast-talking but which is extremely painful for this continent: 23%. more than half of young people in some countries, such as spain, croatia or greece. and this is not just data, it has enormous economic consequences, because we're wasting talent and enormous investments in public education; enormous social consequences, because we're condemning an entire generation to poverty, emigration or precariousness; and also enormous institutional consequences, because we're disconnecting them from their institutions. we have given some answers - it is always good to give answers - but these answers - the youth guarantee, an initiative for youth employment - have been slow, unambitious, timid, and are being misused by some states - very important: the case of spain is flagrant with the youth guarantee - and, moreover, we are conditioning the states and the budgets of the states by accounting for these budgets. what we have to do is to give an ambitious response, commensurate with the scar that this problem is causing for the future of this continent. ambitious, fast and urgent, because the future is calling us to the door.
madam president, the initiative to promote youth employment which we approved a few months ago was a very important step towards tackling one of the great and fundamental challenges facing europe, and we must take care, precisely for this reason, to ensure that the expectations and objectives we set ourselves are met, namely that young people can be better trained and have a decent job. the rate of youth unemployment is a problem of concern to all, but mainly to certain countries and regions. let me refer today specifically to the outermost regions of the european union, which always have the most difficulty in all areas and also in finding job opportunities for their young people. we are talking about unemployment in europe at 10%, in the canary islands at 33.7% and in réunion at 29%. in the case of youth unemployment, in the canary islands we had, at the end of 2013, a rate of 62%, a frightening figure. we're getting better, yes, but there's still a lot to do.
madam president, one of the greatest challenges facing the european union is precisely to open the doors of the labour market to young people. in the case of spain, 40% of the unemployed are under the age of 30, i.e. 1.5 million. if it is one of the biggest problems facing the european union, we have to be ambitious in the response. youth guarantee is an answer, but it is not ambitious. it's not satisfying, it's not effective, it's not enough. we must therefore consider what policies should be implemented to respond and not frustrate generations who have a very dark present, but who also have no hopes or expectations for the future. we need to be more ambitious. we must break with this austerity policy. we must increase investment policy, growth policy. we must talk about the industrialization of europe. we must talk about jobs, to give a new horizon and prospects to a generation that may be lost.
madam president, the problem of youth unemployment requires, in addition to solving the economic imbalances we have been talking about this morning, more funding, closer links between training and demand for new skills and professions, better conditions for the first jobs and the promotion of self-employment. we have a deficit in some of the technical-scientific specialties on which innovation depends that urgently needs to be addressed. but i also miss a speech on values and attitudes. it's not comfortable to talk about this, but there is a responsibility on the part of authorities, individuals and families. we must promote other role models, educate in responsibility, teach failure and restore the prestige of personal effort. knowledge yields more with values. soulless talent, as we've seen with unscrupulous financiers, is what's driving this crisis, and this is the best example of what i'm saying and why we need to change.
madam president, the deterioration of the labour market cannot be solved by initiatives like this, which argue that the problem is the lack of employability of our young people. i have been a vocational training teacher and a job counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, and i will tell you what the problem is with our young people: when we have to help our young people to find employment, the problem is not that they are not sufficiently trained or that they are not sufficiently flexible. the problem is there are no jobs. and we know this well in the southern european countries, because our labour market has been torn apart to obey the dictates of the big financial institutions and the big multinationals. and when they say that the alternative is self-employment, it is laughable, because most of our young people are living in dramatic situations and do not have the start-up capital to meet the costs of starting a new business, when, moreover, most small businesses are suffering the consequences of the economic situation. the reality is that young people today are faced with unemployment, precariousness or exile, and that the deterioration of the labour market is solved by developing a model... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which introduces amendments to the legal framework for the european globalisation adjustment funds. in particular, the minimum number of unemployed persons eligible for the fund has been reduced from 500 to 200, the financing of the state's share of the fund has been made easier for those states which have social, economic or financial constraints, the regions' leading role in implementing the fund has been increased and the eagf's budget has been increased, since it will be integrated into the eu's ordinary budget. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which introduces amendments to the legal framework for the european globalisation adjustment funds. in particular, the minimum number of unemployed persons eligible for the fund has been reduced from 500 to 200, the financing of the state's share of the fund has been made easier for those states which have social, economic or financial constraints, the regions' leading role in implementing the fund has been increased and the eagf's budget has been increased, since it will be integrated into the eu's ordinary budget. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which introduces amendments to the legal framework for the european globalisation adjustment funds. in particular, the minimum number of unemployed persons eligible for the fund has been reduced from 500 to 200, the financing of the state's share of the fund has been made easier for those states which have social, economic or financial constraints, the regions' leading role in implementing the fund has been increased and the eagf's budget has been increased, since it will be integrated into the eu's ordinary budget. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - we announce our vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in connection with the proposed implementation of technical assistance needs at the initiative of the commission. i would like to express my full agreement with the commission on the need to improve the means of better informing potential beneficiaries and to extend the mobilisation of these funds, and we particularly agree with the new measures proposed, such as special attention to unemployed young people under 25 who are not currently in any education or training programme (neet). we also think it is right to increase assistance at regional and local level, extending the scope of the egf, since it allows access to it from regions and municipalities with a lower population density. finally, we want to support the motion for a resolution on the requirement for more financial resources and less conditionality for access to the market.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority. the egf is a tool to help redundant workers in sectors particularly affected by globalisation. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which introduces amendments to the legal framework for the european globalisation adjustment funds. in particular, the minimum number of unemployed persons eligible for the fund has been reduced from 500 to 200, the financing of the state's share of the fund has been made easier for those states which have social, economic or financial constraints, the regions' leading role in implementing the fund has been increased and the eagf's budget has been increased, since it will be integrated into the eu's ordinary budget. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which introduces amendments to the legal framework for the european globalisation adjustment funds. in particular, the minimum number of unemployed persons eligible for the fund has been reduced from 500 to 200, the financing of the state's share of the fund has been made easier for those states which have social, economic or financial constraints, the regions' leading role in implementing the fund has been increased and the eagf's budget has been increased, since it will be integrated into the eu's ordinary budget. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for redundancies in nutriart sa and 25 suppliers and processors of its products, as well as 24 self-employed workers who ceased their activity and who were dependent on the main greek undertaking, with 508 workers targeted by the measures co-financed by the egf from 16 july 2013 to 16 november 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in greece, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for redundancies in nutriart sa and 25 suppliers and processors of its products, as well as 24 self-employed workers who ceased their activity and who were dependent on the main greek undertaking, with 508 workers targeted by the measures co-financed by the egf from 16 july 2013 to 16 november 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in greece, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for redundancies in nutriart sa and 25 suppliers and processors of its products, as well as 24 self-employed workers who ceased their activity and who were dependent on the main greek undertaking, with 508 workers targeted by the measures co-financed by the egf from 16 july 2013 to 16 november 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in greece, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority. the egf is a tool to help redundant workers in sectors particularly affected by globalisation. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for redundancies in nutriart sa and 25 suppliers and processors of its products, as well as 24 self-employed workers who ceased their activity and who were dependent on the main greek undertaking, with 508 workers targeted by the measures co-financed by the egf from 16 july 2013 to 16 november 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in greece, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for redundancies in nutriart sa and 25 suppliers and processors of its products, as well as 24 self-employed workers who ceased their activity and who were dependent on the main greek undertaking, with 508 workers targeted by the measures co-financed by the egf from 16 july 2013 to 16 november 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in greece, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following 1 513 redundancies, namely 1 441 during and after the reference period in mechel campia turzii and 72 in mechel reparatii targoviste, with 1 000 workers eligible for measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 20 june 2012 to 20 october 2012. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in romania, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following 1 513 redundancies, namely 1 441 during and after the reference period in mechel campia turzii and 72 in mechel reparatii targoviste, with 1 000 workers eligible for measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 20 june 2012 to 20 october 2012. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in romania, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following 1 513 redundancies, namely 1 441 during and after the reference period in mechel campia turzii and 72 in mechel reparatii targoviste, with 1 000 workers eligible for measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 20 june 2012 to 20 october 2012. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in romania, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
i supported the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund for one of the romanian companies. i welcome the fact that the fund is now being used more often for bodies from the new member states. at the same time, it should be noted that the funds from the fund must be under constant control, since it is european taxpayers' money.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority. the egf is a tool to help redundant workers in sectors particularly affected by globalisation. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following 1 513 redundancies, namely 1 441 during and after the reference period in mechel campia turzii and 72 in mechel reparatii targoviste, with 1 000 workers eligible for measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 20 june 2012 to 20 october 2012. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in romania, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. – i support the motion on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management in order to give additional help to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in romania. it is important that we make this financial assistance available as quickly and efficiently as possible, so that these workers have the opportunity to their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following 1 513 redundancies, namely 1 441 during and after the reference period in mechel campia turzii and 72 in mechel reparatii targoviste, with 1 000 workers eligible for measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 20 june 2012 to 20 october 2012. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in romania, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 904 workers in 661 enterprises whose activity corresponds to nace revision 2 division 56 (food and beverages) in the nuts 2 region of the autonomous community of aragon (es24), with 280 workers receiving measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in spain, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 904 workers in 661 enterprises whose activity corresponds to nace revision 2 division 56 (food and beverages) in the nuts 2 region of the autonomous community of aragon (es24), with 280 workers receiving measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in spain, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 904 workers in 661 enterprises whose activity corresponds to nace revision 2 division 56 (food and beverages) in the nuts 2 region of the autonomous community of aragon (es24), with 280 workers receiving measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in spain, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - we announce our vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in connection with the proposed implementation for the accommodation, food and drink services sector in aragon. this sector has suffered a sharp decline in recent years, even exceeding the decline suffered by the sector in the whole of spain. the sharp reduction in production has had negative consequences in the form of redundancies and closures of enterprises which have dragged other sectors of activity in aragon. in view of the situation, it is absolutely necessary and appropriate to use the fund to help redundant workers to be re-trained in other sectors of activity, to supplement their subsistence and to encourage self-employment.
in writing. - the european union has established this instrument to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in global business models or who are made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis, and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the spanish government, aware of the difficult situation in certain sectors, requested a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 904 workers in 661 enterprises operating in nace revision 2 division 56 (food and drink) in the autonomous community of aragon. the programme is worth €960,000 for training and retraining, job search assistance, guidance on reintegration into work and career support for dependent persons. i have therefore voted in favour of this important aid.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority. the egf is a tool to help redundant workers in sectors particularly affected by globalisation. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 904 workers in 661 enterprises whose activity corresponds to nace revision 2 division 56 (food and beverages) in the nuts 2 region of the autonomous community of aragon (es24), with 280 workers receiving measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in spain, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. – in the face of the turmoil that is affecting some eu countries and the unacceptably high level of unemployment among the eu population, any initiative that improves the employment of all workers by means of adapted training and the recognition of skills and competences gained throughout a worker's professional career is of vital importance. hence, it is necessary to provide solidarity and this programme on a coordinated package of personalised services goes in the right direction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 904 workers in 661 enterprises whose activity corresponds to nace revision 2 division 56 (food and beverages) in the nuts 2 region of the autonomous community of aragon (es24), with 280 workers receiving measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in spain, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the redundancies that occurred in 89 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 41 (building) in the adjacent nuts 2 regions of güeldres and overijssel in the netherlands, where 475 workers could benefit from the measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these unemployed people, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the redundancies that occurred in 89 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 41 (building) in the adjacent nuts 2 regions of güeldres and overijssel in the netherlands, where 475 workers could benefit from the measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these unemployed people, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the redundancies that occurred in 89 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 41 (building) in the adjacent nuts 2 regions of güeldres and overijssel in the netherlands, where 475 workers could benefit from the measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these unemployed people, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority. the egf is a tool to help redundant workers in sectors particularly affected by globalisation. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the redundancies that occurred in 89 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 41 (building) in the adjacent nuts 2 regions of güeldres and overijssel in the netherlands, where 475 workers could benefit from the measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these unemployed people, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. – i welcome the initiative of future cross-border initiatives such as border desks or alignment of rules in order to enhance the exchange of information and to stimulate the cross-border mobility of workers. representing a country with boundaries, it should be a priority to use all the tools available to enhance best practices. in this case, as well, it is important to train participants for occupations outside the construction sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the redundancies that occurred in 89 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 41 (building) in the adjacent nuts 2 regions of güeldres and overijssel in the netherlands, where 475 workers could benefit from the measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 march 2013 to 1 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these unemployed people, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of the 587 redundancies, with 400 workers expected to participate in the measures, in three companies manufacturing wood and wood products and cork in the nuts ii region of castilla y león (es41) in spain, during the reference period from 28 december 2012 to 28 september 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these unemployed people, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of the 587 redundancies, with 400 workers expected to participate in the measures, in three companies manufacturing wood and wood products and cork in the nuts ii region of castilla y león (es41) in spain, during the reference period from 28 december 2012 to 28 september 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these unemployed people, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of the 587 redundancies, with 400 workers expected to participate in the measures, in three companies manufacturing wood and wood products and cork in the nuts ii region of castilla y león (es41) in spain, during the reference period from 28 december 2012 to 28 september 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these unemployed people, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - we announce our vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in connection with the proposed application for the carpentry and furniture sector in castile and león. the sector has lost 40% of its exports since 2008, almost three times the average european drop. this slump in sales has had a negative impact on production, leading to layoffs and factory closures in a region which, due to its low population density and low industrial sector, is particularly affected by the problem of industrial unemployment. the measures of reintegration into employment, vocational guidance and intensive job search support are not only welcome but also essential to alleviate the crisis experienced in the region in recent years.
in writing. - on 22 july 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in three enterprises operating in nace division 16 (wood and cork industry, except furniture; manufacture of basketware and spartanware) in the region of castile and león, following major structural changes in world trade patterns as a result of globalisation. the programme is to provide eur 700 000 for reception and information sessions, career guidance and counselling, support for intensive job search, training, entrepreneurship promotion and incentives. i would like to thank my colleague, mr esteban gonzález pons, for this report, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. - the egf is a tool for the relocation of workers made redundant in sectors particularly affected by 'globalisation'. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme. the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority.
in writing. - the positive vote is explained by the recognition that any help directed to those individuals and families who are suffering is welcome. it does not in any way imply acceptance of the paternalistic and unjust logic underlying the design of this fund. people who have lost their jobs have not lost their jobs because of lack of training and certainly do not need "incentives" to learn computer science or to look for work. they have lost it because the economy and the productive fabric have been severely undermined by powers that never consulted them and that only seek the private benefit of a tiny minority. the egf is a tool to help redundant workers in sectors particularly affected by globalisation. to this end, it allocates most of the funds to training, mentoring, support and development of "personal skills", while only a tiny portion of it goes directly into the pockets of the workers and only if they obediently follow the proposed itinerary or in the unlikely event that they get a job as a result of the programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of the 587 redundancies, with 400 workers expected to participate in the measures, in three companies manufacturing wood and wood products and cork in the nuts ii region of castilla y león (es41) in spain, during the reference period from 28 december 2012 to 28 september 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these unemployed people, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of the 587 redundancies, with 400 workers expected to participate in the measures, in three companies manufacturing wood and wood products and cork in the nuts ii region of castilla y león (es41) in spain, during the reference period from 28 december 2012 to 28 september 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these unemployed people, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we do not know how many people have already died from ebola. the health systems in west africa are very weak and are now totally collapsed, with a ratio of two doctors per 100,000 inhabitants to deal with an unprecedented epidemic, as the commissioner has rightly said. and the european union and its member states have no choice but to cut the budget for development aid. my country, spain, for example, has cut it by 74% since 2011. development aid is not charity, gentlemen, it is justice. and the european countries have a huge debt to the african countries. and i'm not going to talk about the resource plundering that we continue to commit on that continent. but it seems that the people of the south are not the priority even in situations of extreme need. we need to get it to become a global threat so we can get going. but this europe, which is dedicated to the defence of human rights, does not give priority to the real needs of this situation. there are no doctors, technicians, laboratories, isolation units, training for the population and overwhelmed health bodies. they don't need military support. let us follow the example of cuba, which will send 165 highly specialized doctors, and not that of the united states, which proposes to send 3,000 soldiers under the pretext of supporting the development of a health structure. more soldiers than medics. enough conflict is already being suffered by these people to further militarize the region. a european plan is urgently needed to mobilise the resources needed to provide effective health care now. we can't wait any longer.
mr president, the african continent is typically and topically called the 'continent of pain' but in this case the topic corresponds to reality. the combination of famine and genocide has taken the lives of millions of people on that continent. poverty, lack of access to water, lack of education and infant mortality affect hundreds of thousands of people. on that continent, on the other hand, there is armed violence, there is terrorism, there are civil conflicts everywhere. a continent that a few decades ago abandoned the situation of colonialism, but which is now being colonized in its resources and in its structures. the ebola crisis has now been unleashed on that continent. the ebola crisis, as commissioner georgieva has pointed out, has three characteristics: an exponential growth in the number of people affected; a very high death rate, around 60%, and, on the other hand, also the lack of health structures with which these countries can deal with the problem. and that's our challenge: to provide, of course, structures; to provide medical supplies; and to allow humanitarian access. i therefore believe that it is time to support the milan council, to support the united nations meeting and finally to support the decision of the donors on this matter on 24 september. a final word: the sooner the european countries ratify the 11th european development fund, the more funds we will have to respond structurally to this problem.
mr president, sierra leone, liberia, guinea conakry and other countries are suffering from an ebola epidemic. but it's not just this that's destroying thousands of lives. ebola is accompanied by poverty. they are suffering the consequences of being poor countries, of being impoverished countries. the european union, the united states, the west, have turned their backs on the ebola outbreaks in africa for years and only when they saw that the virus could reach europe and that our high walls and our fences at the borders could not stop it, only then did they react. not to save the citizens of these african countries, but to save themselves. and it seems that all lives are not worth the same. big pharmaceutical companies don't care about the diseases of the poor. they don't give benefits. and this voracity of the economic elites is as lethal as ebola. and i think it is important to highlight - and the european parliament should welcome this - the announcement by cuba to send personnel. this is the largest announcement of aid in the form of personnel to fight ebola: one hundred and sixty-five people, including medical and nursing staff. cuba, once again, demonstrates its international solidarity.
mr president, my first words can only be of support for the victims of ebola, and i want to extend this support to all the people who are working on the ground, risking their lives to save those who live in countries without the minimum health structures to guarantee the response this epidemic needs. one of them was spanish priest miguel pajares, who died after contracting the disease in liberia while helping the most needy, in this case ebola patients, who are currently repudiated by their community even after being cured. according to the world health organization, ebola is a public health emergency that requires a coordinated international response. in this race we must be faster than this silent enemy who has already claimed 2300 lives. the situation, ladies and gentlemen, is deteriorating rapidly and ebola is affecting the weak economies of the region and, consequently, public order. humanitarian needs are increasing and if they are not met, it will be much more difficult to combat this disease. the number of patients is growing much faster than our ability to manage it. we know that the commission has increased humanitarian aid, but it must also increase the help of experts in the region. all countries must be involved in research, not forgetting the measures to prevent the spread of this epidemic, without condemning these countries, already severely punished, to lose all hope of getting out of poverty as a result of their isolation. and i end by reminding those who care for these ebola patients, that they deserve all of our recognition whether they are american, whether they are european, whether they are african. they are our heroes, anonymous heroes, and to them we owe not only our attention, as we are giving it here today, but also our action, and fast.
acting president of the council (on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy). - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking today on behalf of the high representative and vice-president, catherine ashton, to discuss the recent tragic events in iraq and syria. the situation in both countries has changed radically in recent months. the foreign affairs council of 15 august, the gymnich and the european council of late august addressed these crises, which are becoming more and more pressing. on 15 september france hosted an international conference on peace and security in iraq, co-chaired by president françois hollande and iraqi president masum. the meeting was attended by foreign ministers from 30 delegations who pledged to support iraq's efforts to meet an unparalleled challenge. we are appalled and outraged, as are all of you, by the violence, killings and human rights violations perpetrated by isil, particularly against religious and ethnic minorities, including defenseless women and children. we reaffirm our strong commitment to supporting the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of iraq. the european union has urged the iraqi leaders to establish an inclusive government capable of providing a political response to the crisis. we welcome the formation of the new government led by al abadi. isil and other armed groups pose a very serious terrorist threat to the entire surrounding region and a direct challenge to the security of the european union and the entire international community. the jihadists' intentions are very clear: the goal is to occupy territory that allows them to establish what they call the "islamic state". the terrorist threat itself is not new, it is its global reach that is unprecedented. in some ways, isil is like a state that controls territory, manages assets and levies taxes. he also has access to considerable financial resources, smuggled in, such as oil and other raw materials. the european union is determined to prevent isil from having access to financing and oil proceeds. eu ministers condemned isil's funders who acted in violation of un security council resolution 1267 and subsequent resolutions. the deplorable actions of jihadists range from the brutal murder of hostages and prisoners, to the abuse of children and women, to the persecution of religious and ethnic minorities and the desecration of sacred and cultural sites. human rights violations are perpetrated on a large scale and affect freedom of religion or belief, an essential principle particularly in a multiethnic region, which would require the ability to freely practice one's beliefs without fear of acts of intolerance or aggression. the european union is determined to counter the threat of isil and other terrorist groups in iraq and syria, as called for by un security council resolution 2170. the perpetrators of these crimes will be held accountable for their actions. we also have a specific responsibility in relation to the large number of european citizens who have joined other foreign fighters. the european union must act urgently on three fronts: security, political and humanitarian. the fight against isil and the alarming humanitarian situation are a top priority. the european union and its individual member states are engaged on a number of fronts, including the support of some member states for the coalition launched by president obama. we are aware that the military and counter-terrorism response alone is not enough. the actions against isil must be seen in the broader context of reforms in iraq and political transition in syria. member states, on an individual basis, are providing military support through the supply of arms, ammunition and equipment. in iraq, in particular, us airstrikes and military support to the kurdish regional authorities have been crucial in containing the isil offensive. the european union as a whole is politically supportive of these efforts. the action is under way and the first results are already visible. the iraqi armed forces have regained ground, as have kurdish forces in the north of the country. the appointment of al abadi as prime minister by president masum and the subsequent formation of an inclusive government are steps forward. the european council welcomed the commitment of the united states and other partners, including the initiative of an international security conference on iraq. the involvement and active engagement of partners in the region is essential to address this challenge to security and stability. on the humanitarian side, the situation in iraq is extremely worrying, with 1.8 million internally displaced people as of january 2014. access to the population in conflict and at-risk areas in different parts of iraq remains a priority for the union. while humanitarian operations are continuing in the north of the country, the unstable security situation is hampering access to other parts of central iraq, including the anbar governorate. despite budgetary constraints, the european union stepped up its efforts by providing an additional €10 million to counter the crisis. this has brought the eu's overall humanitarian budget for iraq to €17 million since the beginning of the year. in addition, member states have contributed a further eur 40 million for humanitarian aid. the eu civil protection mechanism has also been activated to facilitate humanitarian assistance. the european union has provided particular assistance to the most vulnerable groups in syria and iraq, mobilising over eur 2.87 billion in relief and assistance in syria and neighbouring countries. our aid is aimed at all people in need without any discrimination. in syria, isil is strengthening its presence in the country and may soon take refuge there for its destabilising activities. the rise of isil in syria is the result of instability caused by the assad regime's brutal war against its own people. a lasting solution requires a de-escalation of tensions, an end to violence and a political transition that is led by the syrians themselves. the european union expresses its full support for the mission of the un special envoy, ambassador de mistura, who has returned from consultations in damascus. on a broader level, we are convinced that the rise of isil can only be countered by a synergy of prevention, control and sanctions.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, putting out fire with fire, even firefighters don't usually do that. it's called counterfire and it's pretty dangerous. but firemen don't create fires. the western countries, the warmongers, yes. at least they created the fire of the middle east, the fire of iraq, which has already claimed over 1 400 000 victims. and that's what they're proposing, to put out their own fire with more fire. what are you going to do now? bombing those you have encouraged in syria? those who were the friendly rebels? the ones that senator mccain met with? the ones they were funding from the gulf to contain syria or iran? playing with fire is not good. the fire spread to iraq and, moreover, it burned in a plain paid for by the sectarian governments that the west supported. because if not, who supported this constitution based on ethnic or sectarian quotas, or who supported the sectarian government of al maliki, which brutally attacked the sunni areas in fallujah, samarra or ramadi? this fire is not put out by your drone bombing. it doesn't go away with the madness of arming the contenders. it is being put to rest at an international conference sponsored by the united nations and neighbouring countries, with the participation of all the iraqi diversity, which will give way to a unity government that will put an end, once and for all, to these sectarian and violent policies.
madam president, i am a christian and i have seen many crosses. what i never thought in my life was that i would actually see a man crucified. it's on the internet, available to anyone. there are also seven-year-old girls decapitated with knives. there are women who were stoned to death who took over an hour to die. groups of young people shot en masse because they belonged to another race, because they belonged to another religion, because they belonged to another land. it's there; it's going on. it's called the caliphate: it's the caliphate of terror. we are witnessing, through the internet and with the use of our own media, a display of indiscriminate, abominable, brutal violence; a display of violence that we cannot tolerate. it's not muslims; it's not just terrorism: it's the middle ages that are knocking on our door again. there is no god who can see right through what's happening. terror can spread and the persecution of minorities can spread to sudan, nigeria, mali, burkina faso, europe itself, since the caliphate's map is southern europe. and in fact, there are many europeans fighting in the caliphate -- fighting in syria, fighting in iraq -- which makes us wonder what we're doing wrong to be exporting terrorists; which makes us wonder when those here who have gone to commit terrorism there will go back home to kill; which makes us say we have to go after them, capture them and bring them to justice. europe must support the international coalition, it must support the new government in baghdad. europe must improve the aid we are giving to thousands and thousands of christians and other minorities who are refugees, expelled, persecuted. ladies and gentlemen, madam president, fanaticism knows no boundaries, fanaticism knows no time, fanaticism is another very contagious, very dangerous virus, fanaticism is the plague of intelligence.
madam president, we cannot forget that in every conflict - and this is no exception - there are situations which are forgotten, where minority groups are attacked with extreme cruelty, finding themselves defenceless in the face of the chaos generated by the situation in which they have been involved. these marginalized groups are certainly not less important for that and deserve and need our attention. in this case, i would like to draw attention to the very serious situation of the almost three thousand refugees in the liberty camp. the refugees at camp liberty had to flee from an oppressive and tyrannical regime like the iranian one. and despite the support and recognition of the international community, they have suffered continuous attacks by iraqi forces of al maliki remote controlled from tehran. since their arrival in the camp in august 2012, these iranian citizens have been enduring harsh restrictions, which have intensified to intolerable levels since last august, when iraqi forces, taking advantage of the chaos generated by the rise of the islamic state, tightened the noose around the refugees' necks even more, by blocking the supply of fuel, food and medicine. the medical blockade is probably the most tragic and scandalous. in the last month, patients with cancer and other serious illnesses - in several cases terminal - have been repeatedly denied necessary treatment and medical attention. before this situation worsens, or even before the massacre of 52 iranian refugees in camp ashraf by iraqi security forces and commandos from tehran last september is repeated, i want to call for the rights of these refugees not to be forgotten under the guise of a serious situation but that they should not hide equally worrying situations.
madam president, first of all, the situation in iraq and syria today - the conflicts, the instability and the alarming and terrible rise of the islamic state and its expansion - can only be understood after the gradual breakdown of the states in the area, a breakdown which is also linked, after the last decade, to the international action that has taken place on iraq, and which should be remembered. the current situation and the islamic state are not only causing loss of human life, sectarianism and fighting against minorities, but are also causing instability in our network of international cooperation and international order, and insecurity in our territory. the international community must fight the islamic state, certainly, in the political, civil and also humanitarian aid sphere over the area, but remembering that ending the islamic state will not achieve our ultimate goal in the area, which is to reconcile a country absolutely battered and divided, as iraq is, and to start a peace process in a country in a terrible civil war... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i present to you some facts and figures. on the night of 10 july, daesh took mosul: five hundred thousand people - christians, muslims, sunnis, shiites - fled in haste. in late july, daesh in mosul marked the homes of christians with the letter n (nasrani, christian) and those of non-muslims with the letter r (rwafidh, rejected). the terrible religious purge begins: either they embrace islam or they have to pay the jizya - the islamic tax for jews and christians - or die. they either leave town or they get killed. on 6 august, residents of thirteen christian towns in the nineveh plain flee the threat of an imminent invasion by daesh without any kurdish protection, nor their peshmerga. it's about a hundred to a hundred and twenty thousand christians out in the open. one hundred to twenty thousand christians in forty degrees of heat, in public spaces around churches, desperate. their women and their children are, for daesh, spoils of war, in the manner of the yahiliya, pre-islamic era. the constant violations of human rights are nothing more than a social pathology that derives from a fanatical ideology, from a false political islam that aims to conquer and impose islamic sharia as the supreme law. it's about creating a caliphate through terror, fear, oppression, systematic purging and weapons. that's what we're up against. we either stop them, or they will continue their unlimited advance. an advance of terror, domination and death. we feel sympathy today with so many innocent victims. we are all christians, turkmen, yazidis, kakais, chabaqs and azerbaijanis, as are james foley, steven sotloff and david haines. we welcome the peace conference on monday with hope and hope that true islam and the west together, mr president, will know and be able to put an end to this horror. we are defending the territorial integrity of iraq and we want the displaced to return to the occupied territories in conditions of dignity and security. and we want, mr president, that aid be activated as soon as possible and as a matter of urgency... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this. do you remember, your honours, when gaddafi was "our son of a bitch"? it started to be so from the year 2000, when it privatized its oil companies so that western multinationals could start to enter. it was the time when gaddafi was europe's friend, collaborating with the military-style migration policy, as dictators do; it was the time when gaddafi financed mr sarkozy's election campaign and gave horses to josé maría aznar. even in 2011, a month before the nato intervention, the imf was praising gaddafi's economic reforms. what happened in the month of march? it happened that the un security council, in its resolution 1973, called for the responsibility to protect the civilian population and military intervention was initiated, the consequences of which we are now discussing. but that, ladies and gentlemen, had nothing to do with protecting the civilian population: it had to do with the interests of western oil companies in the face of the possibility that russian, chinese and indian companies might exploit the resources of libya. that is why these three countries abstained in the security council. i'm not asking you to stop being who you are, but at least you're not lying to people. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you very much for the question, mrs. gomes. you're right, i know. there were many democrats in libya who opposed gaddafi. but those democrats who opposed gaddafi never received the support of nato, nor did they ever receive the support of eu countries when sarkozy's campaign was funded or when gaddafi became the main ally of the european union's migration policy. we are not lying. we did not intervene in libya to ensure the rights of the civilian population. the commission has intervened solely in the interests of multinationals. stop making fun of people, mrs. gomes!
mr president, the very serious situation in libya is a matter of great international concern: there is a lot of violence and a sharp political division, fragmentation and polarization. it is necessary to reach a ceasefire as soon as possible and to launch an inclusive political dialogue, as called for by security council resolution 2174 adopted at the end of august. the united nations has a very important role to play, also as a mediator in seeking political solutions. neighbouring countries and those in the entire region must help. it is very necessary that the neighbours contribute to preventing the arms trafficking that fuels this violence, and this is precisely what the security council has been insisting on lately in this resolution that i mentioned earlier. i am glad that a ministerial conference is taking place in madrid today, to which not only european countries but also neighbouring countries of libya and the members of the 5+5 dialogue, together with representatives of the united nations, the european union, the arab league, the african union and the union for the mediterranean, are attending. this conference is a sign of the support of the countries of the region to the libyan people in this very difficult situation. there is a very serious deterioration which is seriously affecting libyan citizens and creating serious problems at economic level and certainly at humanitarian, security, displacement, etc. level, and which has very negative consequences for the whole mediterranean region and, of course, also for the sahel. the greatest possible international coordination and consultation is needed. i hope that the madrid conference will contribute to this concertation and to the identification of measures to enable a ceasefire and a peaceful, inclusive political dialogue leading to consensual solutions and reconciliation for a country in grave danger of fragmentation which needs peace, stability and unity. i hope that next week in new york, at the so-called ministerial week of the general assembly, the question of libya will remain high on the international agenda and we can continue to look at solutions to this very serious problem.
mr president, the situation in libya is simply unsustainable, although it may get worse. the libyan state has ceased to exist and what was once the hope of the arab spring has given rise to frustration and reaction. the absolute priority is therefore the restoration of security, without which the dialogue that the united nations special envoy, bernardino león, formerly the european union envoy for libya, is trying to encourage at the madrid conference, cannot take place. the european union has its responsibilities, but the international community must support the institutional structures in libya. it is the only way to generate an independent judiciary, security forces ready to guarantee it and a constituent assembly that does its job and puts order where, at the moment, there is only chaos and destruction from the factions fighting. but the european union has to learn from the lessons of the dirty realism with which eu governments associated themselves with gaddafi. and that means changing the way we look at the mediterranean, the southern border and, particularly, at the point of immigration. there are hundreds of thousands of people from the horn of africa desperately trying to reach the european union border. and we must clear up the crimes against humanity being committed by the mafia organizations that are attacking human rights in libya.
mr. president, i see an epidemic of selective amnesia here. in the people's group, i'm not surprised; in the social democrats, something, although some have already become social-nato... it seems that the situation of extreme chaos was the result of a peaceful transition, as if there had been no military intervention, as if nato, in violation of international law, had not supported one of the parties. does nato have no responsibility for turning the country into a failed state? what was the reason for rejecting the african union initiative that even gaddafi accepted? maybe it was the oil check? they claimed a responsibility to protect, but, in fact, it was a responsibility to protect the oil. we are in favour of a solution in which the neighbouring countries, the arab league and the african union promote a process for an immediate end to hostilities and dialogue between the conflicting militias, an initiative promoted by algeria, which also rejects a new nato intervention.
mr president, a child who is now six years old and lives in gaza has lived through three wars in his life. what future, what social or human construct can fit into a situation like that? we have just returned from jerusalem and ramallah. what i have seen on this occasion is the palestinian leaders fed up; i have seen a weariness in people who have been trying for peace for many, many years, in people with experience, in people who are fighting; i have seen a weariness like i have never seen in their eyes. every day without a solution is an intolerable setback. there is no place for manicheanism here, but there is no place for balance either, because balance is what is completely unbalancing the relationship. i will answer mr belder: you know that there is an occupying force and an occupied land, and you know that the occupiers have a responsibility to the occupied population, and that the occupied have always had the right to defend themselves. it's the first time in history that the occupiers are the ones who have to defend themselves. we must find a solution, and the first is reconstruction against destruction; the second is dialogue against bombs; and the third is political momentum. the european union is completely absent from the solution, that is the truth, and that is why we must welcome the words of mrs mogherini in these last days. the european union is absent and it is also our responsibility to find a solution for the middle east. and security must be one of the priorities, but security for the citizens of israel and security for the citizens of palestine, for the members of the palestinian parliament who are arrested and imprisoned without trial and by military courts. security for israeli boys and girls, yes; and also security for palestinian boys and girls. balance is making imbalance: what needs to be done is justice and peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of information has been put on the table, but one is missing. do you know how many israeli civilian casualties there have been in these seven weeks of so-called war? - four of them. four of them! what happened in gaza is not a war. what has happened in gaza is the systematic bombing of an isolated territory by land, sea and air. an israeli informant, on our last visit, said that a similar precedent was the warsaw ghetto. a bombing in an area with no rearguard, in an area where there was no safe place. this conflict is a colonial conflict. we saw him in the west bank. an ethnic cleansing already reported by israeli historians, such as ilan pappé. a colonial regime never leaves its territories unless it is forced to. we saw it in south africa. that is why we are calling for a rigorous international investigation into what happened in gaza; the suspension of the agreement with israel - what has to happen to make us question this agreement and the breach of the clause on human rights? - the military embargo - how can we be so hypocritical to mourn the victims and continue to sell weapons to the state of israel? - the ban on products from illegal settlements - how are we going to label illegal products? illegal products are prohibited.
mr president, tomorrow we shall vote again on a motion for a resolution on the situation in gaza and we shall again see that the european union, and this parliament in particular, is playing a declarative, secondary role, with very little real influence. let me mention four lines of action which should define europe's active, urgent and effective presence in this conflict. firstly, the sending to gaza, almost as if to say the permanent establishment, of a pluriform delegation from this parliament with the specific mission of entering into dialogue between the two parties, especially for the lifting of the blockade on gaza. secondly, the urgent reconstruction of all that has been destroyed, which is part of the obvious responsibilities which the state of israel must assume in full. thirdly, all human rights violations must be referred to the international criminal court in the hague and europe must intervene. no to the impunity protected by our silence! yes to accountability and to clarifying responsibilities! and in the meantime, the current association agreement between the european union and israel must be frozen. we must, in any case, ban all arms supplies altogether. and fourthly, we must avoid at all costs, at this time - and europe must intervene - decisions such as those concerning the new settlements planned by the state of israel, which will put the possibility of two states farther away and will bring us fatally closer to a new armed conflict.
the question of the 'blue card'. your honour, you have said that hamas does not warn the people of gaza before the bombings and that is why so many civilian casualties have been caused. do you know that the telephone communications that the israeli army itself had with the citizens of gaza, warning them five minutes in advance that they had to leave their homes, have recently been published in the israeli newspaper haaretz? do you know that it was they themselves who monitored the citizens of gaza as they entered and exited their homes and gave them five minutes to evacuate entire buildings?
mr president, yesterday, during the debate on the agreement with ukraine, we heard in this house words, very bombastic indeed, from the commissioners and their colleagues and from president schulz himself, such as: 'we are laying the foundations of the law' or 'could we have imagined that the right of the strongest would prevail over the right of the weakest?' well, here's what's going on. and this afternoon, in connection with the situation in iraq and syria, we heard again more or less the same thing. i ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, why does the european union practice this double standard, this hypocrisy, with israel? the government of this country does not respect international law, the judgments of the hague tribunal, human rights, treaties or agreements it signs, or even borders. he commits crimes against humanity, steals their land and their homes from the palestinians. kills, arrests and imprisons with total impunity. the european union is looking the other way or to other less legitimate and rather spurious interests. in gaza, now, there's been a genocide, and it's an open-air prison. no one can get in or out, according to the un agency itself. they won't even allow humanitarian aid. there are 33 members of parliament in administrative detention. you know what that means.
mr president, 'passivity', 'complexity', 'paralysis', 'fear', 'slowness', 'absence' are words which once again describe the attitude of our union to the massacre that has taken place in gaza this summer. i do not deny that rockets from the gaza strip are an act of violence, but i do deny that the way to deal with this phenomenon is to bomb schools, murder children and cynically call so much suffering 'collateral damage'. between 12 and 16 october 2006, in the middle of the strip blockade, i visited the ramallah headquarters of the palestinian parliament and spent a week treating that bleeding wound three hours by plane from strasbourg. i understood that without an outside arbiter worthy of the name, things could only get worse. yes to solutions for peace! but, out of humanity, out of solidarity, we must demand from israel the same respect for basic human rights as we demand from other countries with fewer sponsors. it is a question of dignity, of credibility and of justice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of human rights. the truth is, we can check it every day. but it is true that in recent years we have improved our position, because we have the instruments to carry out our task. and this annual report is a good opportunity to evaluate what we have done. however, clear indicators and even clearer commitments are still lacking, so that we can know whether the european union is really making progress in its strategy to defend human rights in the world. we are about to draw up a new action plan in which parliament unfortunately has little say, but we know that we will still be heard. and i want to take this opportunity to congratulate mr lambrinidis on the work that the special representative has done over these years and i want him to be able to continue to move forward on all the work that is being done. because there's almost nothing left to do. in human rights i would say that in order not to take a step backwards we must take many steps forward and that human rights cannot be just the friendly face of the european union. it must be a transversal policy and a commitment by all of us. human rights are universal. it seems absurd that we should have to reiterate this principle. they are universal. and there is no cultural, religious, political or any other kind of relativism that should make us retreat from this principle, which we defend with great force. human rights are universal and must reach all human beings, in every country on earth. human rights are universal and, for that very reason, the european union must work on them in a very transversal way, with a very clear commitment. you see, i think that if the european union is to be respected in the world, before giving lessons, it should give some examples. just a few days ago, a hundred children drowned on our shores in the mediterranean. this is also a task for the european union in defence of human rights.
mr president, the work that the european union is doing to advance its values and principles at international level is undeniable. the union's external relations policy has as one of its main objectives the universality of human rights throughout the world: the world looks to us to defend them and we cannot let them down. but there are many countries where fundamental rights are violated and where many people are not guaranteed them. the lack of freedom to practice one's religion is a clear example of these human rights violations. we are faced daily with the continuing massacres of minorities in iraq and syria, with a particular effect on the christian community, whose members are forced to renounce their religion or else they are exterminated. christians in the east look to us with the desperation of those who need to be protected. the archbishop of baghdad told us during his last visit to this parliament: 'we need help not because we are christians, but because we are human beings'. i welcome the fact that this report deals with the negative impact of the increasing terrorist acts in iraq, but i do not see a greater commitment to the consequences of terrorism in the world, including europe. this report is full of abuses in the fight against terrorism, and it is necessary to point out where they exist, but i must say that the text should express a stronger condemnation of the global rise of terrorism and make clearer references to the victims of terrorism. it is therefore unbalanced in my view. human rights mean nothing to terrorists: they feed on barbarism and utter disregard for human life. examples of this are the cases of the boko haram girls in nigeria; the kidnapping of religious minority girls in iraq, who are used as sex slaves; or the atrocious murders of journalists and aid workers who were doing humanitarian work. i ask the international community not to let down its guard in the face of the escalation of terrorism we are experiencing, because only together can we say loud and clear to the terrorists that we love freedom and life more than they love repression and death.
madam president, i have heard a report full of good intentions. it's something i celebrate. the fact is that i could give many examples of european union interests being put above human rights. in this case, i'm going to talk about something that affects us in my country. that is the situation with morocco. as i have seen, morocco is the country which benefits most from its relationship with the european union. it also has an advanced status. and although the european union's agreements are conditional on respect for human rights, morocco is committing serious violations of international law and human rights. for example, in the sahara, where it is an occupying power and where it is in breach of the united nations mandate, delaying and hindering the process of decolonisation. it is also committing very serious attacks against the population of the occupied territories. it's funny, before tunisia there was an arab spring in the sahara and we didn't know anything. for example, the prisoners of gdeim izik's group of the dignity camps, sentenced in february 2013 by a moroccan military court: 25 civilians tried; eight sentenced to life imprisonment; four to thirty years and four to twenty-five years. it's funny, when do we care about civil movements? only when they're enemy countries. it is not about changing the moroccan regime, but about cooperation to improve governance. they are not required to respect human rights, but are given recommendations. i hope we will take this into account in the trade agreements.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, i believe in your work; i believe that what you are doing is important. we're not perfect; there are a lot of contradictions, but that's the way the world evolves. i believe that you are doing an important job in ensuring that europe remains a beacon of civilization in the world. and i want to give you two pieces of advice on latin america which i think are particularly important. first, i think it is very important that european companies that invest and work in this world that has globalized production, that invest and work in latin america, do so respecting the labor rights and environmental rights of the communities where they operate. we have serious problems in latin america because of the way many european companies are acting. i would recommend that we look at the problems in this area because, as mr howitt said, corporate social responsibility is very important in the culture of respect for human rights throughout the world. and secondly, i think that our eyes, our ears are aware of the human rights violations by the ngos, by the thousands of volunteers, by the thousands of people who work all over the world, also in latin america - europeans and latin americans - in defence of human rights. they have to get our help; they have to get our support. i think this is a second important piece of advice for making a second report, next year, even better.
madam president, the truth is that i can think of few sets of principles more important than human rights and i think it is very important that reports be made on them. i am surprised at the way the european union is looking at this issue, always looking outwards and so little inwards. it is very good that we monitor the observance of human rights beyond our borders, but perhaps it would also be interesting to look a little inward. look a little bit at the people with disabilities, the people who lose their homes, the people who can't put the heating in in the winter, the people who are looking for food in the containers, the immigrants who are locked up in detention centers... we could also possibly use a report on these human rights violations.
madam president, i give you my best wishes. some 12 years ago i had the opportunity to work in this house as an assistant, particularly on the peace process in the great lakes countries, including burundi, following the serious conflicts of the 1990s. at the beginning of this century, it seemed that the longed-for peace and reconciliation brought about by the arusha accords was taking hold. but the situation is getting worse, as is shown by the fact that we are dealing with today: the arrest of pierre claver mbonimpa and others for denouncing, as did the local office of the united nations, the youth training centres of the ruling party. 2015 is an election year in burundi and these events cause us added concern, by the intimidating situation towards opposition parties and by the use of the judiciary to exclude political competitors. it is appropriate to make an electoral observation: the cotonou agreement and the international covenant on civil and political rights bind and oblige the burundian government. the institutions of the european union, and this parliament in particular, must always raise our voices in defence of those who are deprived of their voice and call today, in this case, on the burundian government for the immediate release of mr mbonimpa and for full respect for human rights and freedom of expression.
i would remind you that we are here in this hall, which represents the most democratic institution of the european union, and i do not think it is appropriate for you to make such statements. please apologize. (closure of the 'catch the eye' procedure)
member of the commission. - madam president, i welcome the opportunity provided by this emergency resolution to address the case of pierre claver mbonimpa. we attach great importance to his situation, which has received considerable attention in our dialogue with the burundian authorities. as you know, protecting and encouraging human rights defenders is one of the major priorities of the overall eu policy on human rights and democracy. human rights defenders have a vital moral and practical role to play in giving confidence to civil society organisations and to citizens wishing to assert their rights and enjoy their fundamental freedoms in challenging circumstances. the arrest of mr mbonimpa gave us cause for significant concern. the eu expressed that concern strongly, underlining to the burundian authorities that the legal and human rights of the accused should be scrupulously and transparently respected. we also reacted publicly to the misguided decision to keep mr mbonimpa in pre-trial detention. the eu delegation and the eu member states represented in bujumbura have been in close contact with mr mbonimpa’s lawyer. just a few days ago we were informed that he had been sent to hospital. naturally we will continue to enquire about the conditions under which he is being treated and about his state of health. we must also continue to insist that his rights are fully respected. the world is watching this case as a test of the respect in practice for rights and freedoms in burundi. in burundi, and throughout the world, the eu has spoken out against any measures that encourage the perception of politically motivated justice. experience shows that this perception in itself is dangerous and destabilising. it is regrettable that mr mbonimpa’s case should need to be assessed in such a context and even more so that it comes against a background of other apparent breaches of judicial standards and of increasing tension ahead of the elections in 2015. these threats command continued attention and response. the cotonou agreement is about dialogue of equals and we will not hesitate to raise our concerns. the eu is fully committed to accompanying and supporting burundi in its peace-building process and democratisation. promotion and respect for human rights and the development of an independent and reliable justice system are, of course, at the core of this action. through the european instrument for democracy and human rights and the european development fund we are supporting actions against discrimination and violence in the country and promoting a diverse and constructive burundian civil society, including for the lgbti communities. the local, legislative and presidential elections in 2015 are an important test for the stability of burundi as well as its democratisation. it is important that the un also follows the situation closely in cooperation with the eu. effective monitoring of human rights by the international community must continue during and after the elections. the eu, in close coordination with the member states represented in bujumbura, will continue to follow this case and take the necessary steps as the situation evolves.
the debate on this subject has been closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights violations in bangladesh [2014/2834 ((rsp) ].
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the report by mr bangemann. however, the situation remains worrying. 2013 and 2014 have been tumultuous and unstable, with elections boycotted by the main opposition party, demonstrations violently suppressed, arbitrary arrests and enforced disappearances. to this must be added the deplorable situation of human rights defenders and journalists who are engaged in self-censorship in a country that ranks 146th out of 180 in the reporters without borders press freedom ranking. the number of people on death row is also worrying, some 10 000 of them. the european union should insist on promoting the defence of human rights as a value in itself, but also that political instability in bangladesh could have dire consequences on the economic growth the country has been experiencing over the last ten years, frustrating its chances of meeting the millennium development goals and its aspiration to move from a low-income country to a middle-income one by 2021, the 50th anniversary of its independence. poverty and democratic deficits undermine the rights of bangladesh's citizens and can be a breeding ground for extremist movements, which is especially worrying in the world's second largest muslim country, 90 per cent of its 150 million people. this danger is heightened by the call made in early september by al qaeda leader ayman al zawahiri for the establishment of an islamic caliphate in bangladesh, myanmar and parts of india. we must send a clear message. we welcome bangladesh's progress towards the millennium development goals and acknowledge its steps in the right direction, for example by preventing child marriages, but we must continue to insist that strong action is taken to ensure freedom of expression and political freedoms.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not subject to the death penalty. in bangladesh, 87% of work is informal and therefore without social or labour rights. in the textile sector, wages are far below those in the countries around it and agreements are systematically breached by the exporting multinationals, who reap the maximum benefits from this situation. we must demand that the commitments to respect the rights of workers, and especially of women workers, who are subject to conditions of exploitation at work, be respected. the ban on trade unions in export processing areas, where working conditions, health and safety are extremely poor, must be lifted. the compulsory mechanism for compensating the 1 100 dead and 2 500 injured in rana plaza who have not yet been compensated must be put into operation. it is the need and duty of this parliament and the member states to denounce publicly the multinationals which have failed to comply with the victims and to exclude from aid and public procurement those companies which violate human and labour rights.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is obvious that the spiral of violence in ukraine is the result of a coup d'état against the legitimate president yanukovych instigated by the us and the eu itself. in fact, the very association agreement that the eu just signed with ukraine, which was what led to the coup, is being used as a weapon against russia. this, together with the new sanctions that the council adopted against russia on 12 september, can in no way be regarded as an example of good neighbourliness on the part of the eu towards russia.
in writing. - more than three thousand people have lost their lives in the conflict between ukraine and russia, including many eu citizens who were victims of the downing of the malaysia airlines plane. the wounded in this climb number in the thousands and the displaced in the hundreds of thousands. the eu must contribute to the peaceful settlement of a war on our own borders by providing the necessary financial, technical and human resources, supporting the democratic consolidation of ukraine and demanding that russia respect international law, including the ceasefire and the defence of human rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. however, the highest level of political and diplomatic involvement remains necessary. at the domestic level, the agricultural, dairy and fisheries sectors, in order not to see their difficulties worsened, should receive support from the european commission to face the import ban imposed by russia in response to the sanctions.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is obvious that the spiral of violence in ukraine is the result of a coup d'état against the legitimate president yanukovych instigated by the us and the eu itself. in fact, the very association agreement that the eu just signed with ukraine, which was what led to the coup, is being used as a weapon against russia. this, together with the new sanctions that the council adopted against russia on 12 september, can in no way be regarded as an example of good neighbourliness on the part of the eu towards russia.
in writing. - amendment no 14 voted no to the first part because it sets a number of conditions to russia by assuming russia's partisan use of the conflict. both russia and the eastern rebels and the kiev government appear to be taking steps towards a negotiated peace process. the second part of the amendment was voted in favour because it calls for cooperation with the eurasian economic union by adopting a position in favour of dialogue and a peaceful resolution of the conflict. amendment no 11 was voted against because it accepts that nato should play a key role in the conflict, even accepting the permanent military presence of this organisation. the approval of the rapid intervention forces and the statements on the conflict so far demonstrate that nato is taking a defiant stance and acting in a way that encourages the return of hostilities.
in writing. - amendment no 14 voted no to the first part because it sets a number of conditions to russia by assuming russia's partisan use of the conflict. both russia and the eastern rebels and the kiev government appear to be taking steps towards a negotiated peace process. the second part of the amendment was voted in favour because it calls for cooperation with the eurasian economic union by adopting a position in favour of dialogue and a peaceful resolution of the conflict. amendment no 11 was voted against because it accepts that nato should play a key role in the conflict, even accepting the permanent military presence of this organisation. the approval of the rapid intervention forces and the statements on the conflict so far demonstrate that nato is taking a defiant stance and acting in a way that encourages the return of hostilities.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is obvious that the spiral of violence in ukraine is the result of a coup d'état against the legitimate president yanukovych instigated by the us and the eu itself. in fact, the very association agreement that the eu just signed with ukraine, which was what led to the coup, is being used as a weapon against russia. this, together with the new sanctions that the council adopted against russia on 12 september, can in no way be regarded as an example of good neighbourliness on the part of the eu towards russia.
in writing. - amendment no 14 voted no to the first part because it sets a number of conditions to russia by assuming russia's partisan use of the conflict. both russia and the eastern rebels and the kiev government appear to be taking steps towards a negotiated peace process. the second part of the amendment was voted in favour because it calls for cooperation with the eurasian economic union by adopting a position in favour of dialogue and a peaceful resolution of the conflict. amendment no 11 was voted against because it accepts that nato should play a key role in the conflict, even accepting the permanent military presence of this organisation. the approval of the rapid intervention forces and the statements on the conflict so far show that nato is taking a defiant stance and acting in a way that encourages the return of hostilities.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is obvious that the spiral of violence in ukraine is the result of a coup d'état against the legitimate president yanukovych instigated by the us and the eu itself. in fact, the very association agreement that the eu just signed with ukraine, which was what led to the coup, is being used as a weapon against russia. this, together with the new sanctions that the council adopted against russia on 12 september, can in no way be regarded as an example of good neighbourliness on the part of the eu towards russia.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it is obvious that the spiral of violence in ukraine is the result of a coup d'état against the legitimate president yanukovych instigated by the us and the eu itself. in fact, the very association agreement that the eu just signed with ukraine, which was what led to the coup, is being used as a weapon against russia. this, together with the new sanctions that the council adopted against russia on 12 september, can in no way be regarded as an example of good neighbourliness on the part of the eu towards russia.
in the case of sierra leone, guinea conakry, liberia and other countries in the african region, the ebola epidemic is adding to their conditions of extreme poverty. the eu, the us and the international community have turned their backs on outbreaks for years, only when they saw that it could reach our walls and they could not stop it, they reacted, not to save africans but themselves. big pharmaceutical companies don't care about the diseases of the poor. this greed of the economic elites is as greedy as ebola itself. i voted against this resolution because it advocates sending civilian and military aid. what these countries need are doctors, treatment units and medical equipment, not military.
in the case of sierra leone, guinea conakry, liberia and other countries in the african region, the ebola epidemic is adding to their conditions of extreme poverty. the eu, the us and the international community have turned their backs on outbreaks for years, only when they saw that it could reach our walls and they could not stop it, they reacted, not to save africans but themselves. big pharmaceutical companies don't care about the diseases of the poor. this greed of the economic elites is as greedy as ebola itself. i voted against this resolution because it advocates sending civilian and military aid. what these countries need are doctors, treatment units and medical equipment, not military.
in writing. - the ebola virus has spread to guinea and four other countries (liberia, nigeria, sierra leone and senegal) and has affected almost 4 000 people, causing more than 2 000 deaths, and whereas there are also unconfirmed cases of ebola infection and fatalities. the who acknowledges that the outbreak has been underestimated and estimates that the number of patients could exceed 20,000 over the next three months. the commission should therefore carry out a needs assessment and draw up country-specific plans. it is also very important that information and education actions are undertaken to raise awareness of the symptoms and preventive measures, in order to facilitate the confidence and cooperation of people with the anti-ebola measures, as information and communication are an important aspect of the fight against this disease. finally, the member states and the commission must also coordinate and strengthen medical research and the production of effective drugs and vaccines against the ebola virus and promote the necessary clinical trials.
in writing. - the positive vote in favour of the resolution proposed by the european parliament on the european response to the ebola outbreak which is striking tragically is the least we can do in response to the tragedy which is taking place in west africa. we cannot stand by while people suffer. the humanism which underpins the construction of europe must stimulate us to give a firm and comprehensive response to human suffering. the union is a peace project which has brought our continent the greatest social progress in centuries, and which has brought us to the present state of well-being, and it is our moral obligation, by reason of history, by reason of our values, to help people who suffer. we must therefore also urge the member states to increase aid, not only in money but also in equipment, to the countries affected by this human tragedy. the european union should also be able to provide a more rapid and more effective response in the field of humanitarian aid by strengthening the links of integration.
in writing. - in its paragraph 3, the resolution suggests that 'the possibility of using military and civil defence assets' be examined in order to respond to the crisis. the resolution, in paragraph 4, also supports and encourages the recent increase in commitments by the commission in support of the african union's aseowa mission, which is not only a civilian but also a military mission. that is why i voted against this resolution. the ebola epidemic, since it was officially declared on 22 march in guinea, has spread to four other countries (liberia, nigeria, sierra leone and senegal), affecting nearly 4000 people and causing over 2000 deaths. international efforts to date have been dramatically inadequate. the interest of the majority of meps in this matter is welcome: a european plan is urgently needed to mobilise the resources needed by the member states for the delivery of effective humanitarian aid, in particular to provide specialist medical staff and technical equipment, such as mobile laboratories, which promote early warning and isolation cells to slow down the rate of contagion. if such a plan includes military elements it will be ineffective and rejected.
in writing. - paragraph 3 of the resolution suggests that 'the possibility of using military and civil defence assets' be examined in order to respond to the crisis. the resolution, in paragraph 4, also supports and encourages the recent increase in commitments by the commission in support of the african union's aseowa mission, which is not only a civilian but also a military mission. that is why i voted against this resolution. the ebola epidemic, since it was officially declared on 22 march in guinea, has spread to four other countries (liberia, nigeria, sierra leone and senegal), affecting nearly 4000 people and causing over 2000 deaths. international efforts to date have been dramatically inadequate. the interest of the majority of meps in this matter is welcome: a european plan is urgently needed to mobilise the resources needed by the member states for the delivery of effective humanitarian aid, in particular to provide specialist medical staff and technical equipment such as mobile laboratories to promote early warning and isolation cells to slow down the rate of contagion. if such a plan includes military elements it will be ineffective and rejected.
in the case of sierra leone, guinea conakry, liberia and other countries in the african region, the ebola epidemic is adding to their conditions of extreme poverty. the eu, the us and the international community have turned their backs on outbreaks for years, only when they saw that it could reach our walls and they could not stop it, they reacted, not to save africans but themselves. big pharmaceutical companies don't care about the diseases of the poor. this greed of the economic elites is as greedy as ebola itself. i voted against this resolution because it advocates sending civilian and military aid. what these countries need are doctors, treatment units and medical equipment, not military.
in writing. - paragraph 3 of the resolution suggests that 'the possibility of using military and civil defence assets' be examined in order to respond to the crisis. the resolution, in paragraph 4, also supports and encourages the recent increase in commitments by the commission in support of the african union's aseowa mission, which is not only a civilian but also a military mission. that is why i voted against this resolution. the ebola epidemic, since it was officially declared on 22 march in guinea, has spread to four other countries (liberia, nigeria, sierra leone and senegal), affecting nearly 4000 people and causing over 2000 deaths. international efforts to date have been dramatically inadequate. the interest of the majority of meps in this matter is welcome: a european plan is urgently needed to mobilise the resources needed by the member states for the delivery of effective humanitarian aid, in particular to provide specialist medical staff and technical equipment, such as mobile laboratories, to promote early warning and isolation cells to slow down the rate of contagion. if such a plan includes military elements it will be ineffective and rejected.
in writing. - paragraph 3 of the resolution suggests that 'the possibility of using military and civil defence assets' be examined in order to respond to the crisis. the resolution, in paragraph 4, also supports and encourages the recent increase in commitments by the commission in support of the african union's aseowa mission, which is not only a civilian but also a military mission. that is why i voted against this resolution. the ebola epidemic, since it was officially declared on 22 march in guinea, has spread to four other countries (liberia, nigeria, sierra leone and senegal), affecting nearly 4000 people and causing over 2000 deaths. international efforts to date have been dramatically inadequate. the interest of the majority of meps in this matter is welcome: a european plan is urgently needed to mobilise the resources needed by the member states for the delivery of effective humanitarian aid, in particular to provide specialist medical staff and technical equipment, such as mobile laboratories, to promote early warning and isolation cells to slow down the rate of contagion. if such a plan includes military elements it will be ineffective and rejected.
in the case of sierra leone, guinea conakry, liberia and other countries in the african region, the ebola epidemic is adding to their conditions of extreme poverty. the eu, the us and the international community have turned their backs on outbreaks for years, only when they saw that it could reach our walls and they could not stop it, they reacted, not to save africans but themselves. big pharmaceutical companies don't care about the diseases of the poor. this greed of the economic elites is as greedy as ebola itself. i voted against this resolution because it advocates sending civilian and military aid. what these countries need are doctors, treatment units and medical equipment, not military.
in writing. – i strongly support this resolution because it is our responsability as well as that of the eu to act. this resolution stresses that the ebola epidemic is taking a devastating toll in the now five affected countries: guinea, liberia, nigeria, sierra leone, and northern democratic republic of the congo and, according to the who, this is the largest recorded outbreak in terms of cases, deaths and geographical coverage and it continues to accelerate. i firmly believe that the international community must play a bigger role while african countries must also take their share of responsibility. the resolution calls on the countries with the resources to respond to disasters, and for additional medical, military and civilian capacities to be sent urgently to west africa and to be deployed rapidly. in a globalised world, the european union and the united nations must agree on the type of intervention which will provide a response to a health emergency on a global scale.
in the case of sierra leone, guinea conakry, liberia and other countries in the african region, the ebola epidemic is adding to their conditions of extreme poverty. the eu, the us and the international community have turned their backs on outbreaks for years, only when they saw that it could reach our walls and they could not stop it, they reacted, not to save africans but themselves. big pharmaceutical companies don't care about the diseases of the poor. this greed of the economic elites is as greedy as ebola itself. i voted against this resolution because it advocates sending civilian and military aid. what these countries need are doctors, treatment units and medical equipment, not military.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it represents an attempt by the international community to put out the fire with more fire, when it is these same countries that are causing the fire in the middle east. the european parliament resolution follows the us war drums once again and welcomes the us call for an international coalition against the islamic state. now they intend to bomb those they have encouraged in syria, those who were once "friendly rebels". the solution to this fire in the region is not to bomb, but to convene an international conference with the participation of all the parties to put a definitive end to sectarian and violent politics.
in writing. - a week ago we were commemorating the anniversary of the twin towers bombing. in europe, it would be followed by madrid on 11 march 2004 and london in july 2005. indonesia, morocco, turkey, egypt, jordan, algeria and yemen were also victims of this terrorist nonsense. the jihadist madness has become global and now has in iraq and syria the bloodiest examples of the current situation with the fearsome rise of the islamic state. minorities are suffering terrible attacks, refugees are in the thousands and the number of innocent victims is increasing day by day. since the 2001 attack, the situation has not improved. the decisions made in your day, with the invasion of iraq, have only brought more instability, more violence and more casualties. we must address this crisis with respect for international law. combating the islamic state is a priority but without forgetting the importance of humanitarian aid and cooperation. the alliance of civilizations is now more necessary than ever for the sake of peace and reconciliation. i support this resolution and hope that the eu will have the means to act on its proposals.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it represents an attempt by the international community to put out the fire with more fire, when it is these same countries that are the source of that fire in the middle east. the european parliament resolution follows the us war drums once again and welcomes the us call for an international coalition against the islamic state. now they intend to bomb those they have encouraged in syria, those who were once "friendly rebels". the solution to this fire in the region is not to bomb, but to convene an international conference with the participation of all the parties to put a definitive end to sectarian and violent politics.
in writing. - the european union cannot play a passive role in the face of the violence unleashed in the area of iraq, syria and the middle east as a whole. the persecution and murder of people because of their beliefs, their thoughts or their sex cannot leave us indifferent. we cannot allow the violation of the most fundamental human rights, such as the right to one's own physical integrity. this repeated attack on the fundamental principles enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights must be a source of revolt. only two years ago the european union was awarded the nobel peace prize, and this should give us the courage to fight for peace both in the countries within our sphere of influence and in those where human rights and the lives of people are most threatened by the shadow of permanent violence. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in iraq and syria.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it represents an attempt by the international community to put out the fire with more fire, when it is these same countries that are causing the fire in the middle east. the european parliament resolution follows the us war drums once again and welcomes the us call for an international coalition against the islamic state. now they intend to bomb those they have encouraged in syria, those who were once "friendly rebels". the solution to this fire in the region is not to bomb, but to convene an international conference with the participation of all the parties to put a definitive end to sectarian and violent politics.
in writing. - the situation of instability and conflict in iraq and syria, and the increasing deterioration of internal security in both countries, have been determining factors for the emergence and expansion of isil. this organization, which has imposed itself by force and occupied the territory of these countries by force, is applying indiscriminate violence to civilians, committing massive violations of human rights which we in this parliament must condemn in the strongest possible terms. the eu should improve coordination and promote dialogue in the region to counter the threat posed by isil and the challenges in the middle east by promoting democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law in the region. on iraq, we should welcome the recent government of al-abadi and use this window of opportunity to truly establish a representative and inclusive executive that serves as an incentive to curb violence in the country. the situation in syria is different: in the medium/long term, only a political solution agreed with all the actors in society, allowing a peaceful transition to a truly plural and representative government, will truly help to neutralize the impact of isil in the country.
in writing. i support the european parliament resolution which unequivocally condemns the barbaric actions of the so-called islamic state in iraq and syria. the actions of this terrorist organisation are contrary to fundamental human values and at the same time constitute an immense security risk for the whole of europe. we cannot take comfort in the fact that the battlefield is far from our countries, because, last but not least, there are a large number of combatants with eu citizenship on the battlefield. in this context, i would like to stress the need for european governments to respond decisively to the existence of these recruits of the islamic state from among european citizens. i also want to express my support for military aid to the iraqi government and also to the kurds, who today constitute a key counterweight to the terrorists of the islamic state.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it represents an attempt by the international community to put out the fire with more fire, when it is these same countries that are the source of that fire in the middle east. the european parliament resolution follows the us war drums once again and welcomes the us call for an international coalition against the islamic state. now they intend to bomb those they have encouraged in syria, those who were once "friendly rebels". the solution to this fire in the region is not to bomb, but to convene an international conference with the participation of all the parties to put a definitive end to sectarian and violent politics.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it represents an attempt by the international community to put out the fire with more fire, when it is these same countries that are the source of that fire in the middle east. the european parliament resolution follows the us war drums once again and welcomes the us call for an international coalition against the islamic state. now they intend to bomb those they have encouraged in syria, those who were once "friendly rebels". the solution to this fire in the region is not to bomb, but to convene an international conference with the participation of all the parties to put a definitive end to sectarian and violent politics.
in writing. - i voted against because it is obvious that it was the military intervention in libya in 2011 led by france, the uk, the us and canada under the umbrella of nato that has led libya to the current state of failed state. it was the military intervention that led to the death of innocent civilians and widespread destruction, which has led to the destabilisation of the libyan state and the ongoing civil war. those countries assumed the responsibility to protect, but, in fact, it was the responsibility to protect the oil. we support a solution in which the neighbouring countries, the arab league and the african union promote a process for an immediate end to hostilities and dialogue between the conflicting militias, an initiative promoted by algeria, and we reject a new nato intervention.
in writing. - i voted against because it is obvious that it was the military intervention in libya in 2011 led by france, the uk, the us and canada under the umbrella of nato that has led libya to the current state of failed state. it was the military intervention that led to the death of innocent civilians and widespread destruction, which has led to the destabilisation of the libyan state and the ongoing civil war. those countries assumed the responsibility to protect, but, in fact, it was the responsibility to protect the oil. we support a solution in which the neighbouring countries, the arab league and the african union promote a process for an immediate end to hostilities and dialogue between the conflicting militias, an initiative promoted by algeria, and we reject a new nato intervention.
in writing. - i voted against because it is obvious that it was the military intervention in libya in 2011 led by france, the uk, the us and canada under the umbrella of nato that has led libya to the current state of failed state. it was the military intervention that led to the death of innocent civilians and widespread destruction, which has led to the destabilisation of the libyan state and the ongoing civil war. those countries assumed the responsibility to protect, but, in fact, it was the responsibility to protect the oil. we support a solution in which the neighbouring countries, the arab league and the african union promote a process for an immediate end to hostilities and dialogue between the conflicting militias, an initiative promoted by algeria, and we reject a new nato intervention.
in writing. - i announce my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in libya because of the need to raise our voices and call for action to address the extreme instability in which this country finds itself. after the elections last june, libya now has two parliaments and two governments vying for power in this stateless country that has been in economic and social chaos for more than three years. local armed groups have increased their violence, especially in tripoli and benghazi, causing the deaths of thousands of civilians. the tragic humanitarian situation is compounded by the fact that thousands of displaced persons and refugees are leaving libya to reach the coasts of malta and italy, risking their lives and causing many human tragedies by the shipwrecks of their boats. i therefore support the motion for a resolution calling for a ceasefire between the parties, for greater dialogue leading to a political solution to give full legitimacy to the new democratically elected government, to prevent further humanitarian tragedies in the mediterranean and to end the impunity of those who have violated and continue to attack human rights in libya.
in writing. - i voted against because it is obvious that it was the military intervention in libya in 2011 led by france, the uk, the us and canada under the umbrella of nato that has led libya to the current state of failed state. it was the military intervention that led to the death of innocent civilians and widespread destruction, which has led to the destabilisation of the libyan state and the ongoing civil war. those countries assumed the responsibility to protect, but, in fact, it was the responsibility to protect the oil. we support a solution in which the neighbouring countries, the arab league and the african union promote a process for an immediate end to hostilities and dialogue between the conflicting militias, an initiative promoted by algeria, and we reject a new nato intervention.
in writing. – i am happy to support such a resolution in order to condemn the increasing violence, in particular against the civilian population and civilian institutions. i call on all parties to the conflict to immediately cease all violence and agree to a ceasefire in order to end the escalating suffering of the population and to engage in an inclusive national political dialogue to build a state based on the respect of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i call on those responsible for all violations of human rights and international humanitarian law to be held accountable. i want to express my deep concern and full solidarity with the suffering libyan civilian population and institutions.
in writing. - i voted against because it is obvious that it was the military intervention in libya in 2011 led by france, the uk, the us and canada under the umbrella of nato that has led libya to the current state of failed state. it was the military intervention that led to the death of innocent civilians and widespread destruction, which has led to the destabilisation of the libyan state and the ongoing civil war. those countries assumed the responsibility to protect, but, in fact, it was the responsibility to protect the oil. we support a solution in which the neighbouring countries, the arab league and the african union promote a process for an immediate end to hostilities and dialogue between the conflicting militias, an initiative promoted by algeria, and we reject a new nato intervention.
madam president, the european parliament must condemn in the strongest terms what is happening and what has happened in gaza. we are facing a real state crime perpetrated in this besieged prison called gaza, whose population is massacred with impunity. the european union cannot continue with this unbearable equidistant position in the face of what is happening, and i have to say that the resolution adopted today is unacceptable because of its timidity and equidistance and that is why we voted against it. we demand that the european union demands of israel: first, an end to the blockade and occupation; second, an end to the illegal settlements and illegal occupation of land, which affects so many peasants; third, immediate access for humanitarian aid to gaza; fourth, the release of the members of the palestinian legislative council and the political prisoners; fifth, it is high time an international committee investigated the israeli leaders for genuine war crimes; and sixth, the european union must activate article 2 of the association agreement now to suspend it and also suspend research funds going to israeli projects. i would like to conclude by saying that the peace process is absolutely dead because of israel's violent stance and that we must therefore apply all diplomatic norms in order to put an end to this siege and this slaughter of the gazans and the palestinians.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it denounces the israeli military aggression against gaza, the violations of international and humanitarian law, the use of prohibited weapons, new weapons, drones and weapons whose use is prohibited in densely populated areas. this resolution calls for an end to the israeli occupation of the west bank, gaza and east jerusalem. the text reiterates support for the recognition of a viable, independent and contiguous palestinian state, with east jerusalem as its capital, based on the 1967 borders and in peace with israel. the resolution calls for the application of article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement and for the suspension of the implementation of the agreement as long as israel continues to violate human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it denounces the israeli military aggression against gaza, the violations of international and humanitarian law, the use of prohibited weapons, new weapons, drones and weapons whose use is prohibited in densely populated areas. this resolution calls for an end to the israeli occupation of the west bank, gaza and east jerusalem. the text reiterates support for the recognition of a viable, independent and contiguous palestinian state, with east jerusalem as its capital, based on the 1967 borders and in peace with israel. the resolution calls for the application of article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement and for the suspension of the implementation of the agreement as long as israel continues to violate human rights.
in the meantime, the commission has been working on a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this escalation of conflict caused nearly 3,000 fatalities and the displacement of nearly 64,000 refugees, the complete destruction of more than 1700 homes and significant damage to more than 40,000. the destruction of these homes, hospitals and health care facilities, together with the considerable number of victims and refugees, has led to a major humanitarian crisis. the signing of the ceasefire agreement on 26 august must be welcomed. the international community cannot ignore the profound humanitarian crisis that has caused this conflict. the resolution, which was sponsored by the european parliament, calls on the eu to play an effective part in the urgent humanitarian aid and reconstruction efforts in gaza and to take a decisive part in the international donor conference to be held in cairo on 12 october.
in writing. - regarding amendment no 14, which calls for the 'freezing' of the eu-israel association agreement: article 2 of the eu-israel association treaty states that respect for human rights is a fundamental pillar, which must guide the internal and external policies of the associated countries. the israeli action systematically violates human rights, as many international actors recognize, which would justify the immediate freezing of the agreement. failure to do so would mean that the european union would be covering up these violations and becoming complicit in them, sending a clear message to israel that it will not force it to abide by international law. the european union must put the defence of human rights above its commercial interests. regarding the final vote against the joint resolution: the joint resolution once again does not include any concrete demands on israel, when there are many areas in which pressure could be put to promote the respect of human rights and a just solution to the conflict. we therefore consider that the resolution is dangerously balanced and unacceptable at a time when israel is acting with extreme aggression against a palestinian population which is heroically resisting. we cannot support a resolution on this matter which takes this ambivalent position.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it denounces the israeli military aggression against gaza, the violations of international and humanitarian law, the use of prohibited weapons, new weapons, drones and weapons whose use is prohibited in densely populated areas. this resolution calls for an end to the israeli occupation of the west bank, gaza and east jerusalem. the text reiterates support for the recognition of a viable, independent and contiguous palestinian state, with east jerusalem as its capital, based on the 1967 borders and in peace with israel. the resolution calls for the application of article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement and for the suspension of the implementation of the agreement as long as israel continues to violate human rights.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution on israel and palestine after the gaza war and the role of the eu in the dramatic and unacceptable situation facing the palestinian population after the last war in gaza. it left more than 2,000 palestinians dead (most of them civilians, including 503 children) and 72 israelis dead, in addition to 10,000 wounded and 63,000 displaced palestinians inside gaza. dozens of homes, hospitals, schools and water tanks have been destroyed, leaving thousands of palestinians in a humanitarian emergency, without access to food, water or basic services. the resolution calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the palestinian people are not left behind in the conflict. the spanish socialists stress and want the eu to support more intensely the peacemaking role of mahmoud abbas with the aim of unblocking the process and being able to return to peace negotiations leading to a just and lasting solution.
in writing. - article 2 of the eu-israel association treaty states that respect for human rights is a fundamental pillar, which should guide the internal and external policies of the associated countries. the israeli action systematically violates human rights, as many international actors recognize, which would justify the immediate freezing of the agreement. failure to do so would mean that the european union would be covering up these violations and becoming complicit in them, sending a clear message to israel that it will not force it to abide by international law. the european union must put the defence of human rights above its commercial interests.
in writing. - regarding amendment no 14, which calls for the 'freezing' of the eu-israel association agreement: article 2 of the eu-israel association treaty states that respect for human rights is a fundamental pillar, which must guide the internal and external policies of the associated countries. the israeli action systematically violates human rights, as many international actors recognize, which would justify the immediate freezing of the agreement. failure to do so would mean that the european union would be covering up these violations and becoming complicit in them, sending a clear message to israel that it will not force it to abide by international law. the european union must put the defence of human rights above its commercial interests. regarding the final vote against the joint resolution: the joint resolution again does not include any concrete demands on israel, when there are many areas in which pressure could be put to promote the respect of human rights and a just solution to the conflict. we therefore consider that the resolution is dangerously balanced and unacceptable at a time when israel is acting with extreme aggression against a palestinian population which is heroically resisting. we cannot support a resolution on this matter which takes this ambivalent position.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it denounces the israeli military aggression against gaza, the violations of international and humanitarian law, the use of prohibited weapons, new weapons, drones and weapons whose use is prohibited in densely populated areas. this resolution calls for an end to the israeli occupation of the west bank, gaza and east jerusalem. the text reiterates support for the recognition of a viable, independent and contiguous palestinian state, with east jerusalem as its capital, based on the 1967 borders and in peace with israel. the resolution calls for the application of article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement and for the suspension of the implementation of the agreement as long as israel continues to violate human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it denounces the israeli military aggression against gaza, the violations of international and humanitarian law, the use of prohibited weapons, new weapons, drones and weapons whose use is prohibited in densely populated areas. this resolution calls for an end to the israeli occupation of the west bank, gaza and east jerusalem. the text reiterates support for the recognition of a viable, independent and contiguous palestinian state, with east jerusalem as its capital, based on the 1967 borders and in peace with israel. the resolution calls for the application of article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement and for the suspension of the implementation of the agreement as long as israel continues to violate human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour because you are calling for the annulment of the act of ratification of the economic partnership agreement with fiji. the current self-proclaimed military government of fiji is not empowered to take decisions on the implementation and ratification of the agreement and therefore the decision of 17 july 2014 should be considered null and void. i believe that the commission should suspend any decision to reinstate fiji in annex i to the market access regulation as a result of the application of the provisional epa until the announced elections have been successfully held in accordance with international standards. similarly, the commission should not propose a new delegated act in this respect until after a transitional period which allows for a proper assessment of the stability and irreversibility of the democratic reform process.
in writing. - i voted in favour because you are calling for the annulment of the act of ratification of the economic partnership agreement with fiji. the current self-proclaimed military government of fiji is not entitled to take decisions on the implementation and ratification of the agreement and therefore the decision of 17 july 2014 should be considered null and void. i believe that the commission should suspend any decision to reinstate fiji in annex i to the market access regulation as a result of the application of the provisional epa until the announced elections have been successfully held in accordance with international standards. similarly, the commission should not propose a new delegated act in this respect until after a transitional period which allows for a proper assessment of the stability and irreversibility of the democratic reform process.
in writing. - i voted in favour because you are calling for the annulment of the act of ratification of the economic partnership agreement with fiji. the current self-proclaimed military government of fiji is not entitled to take decisions on the implementation and ratification of the agreement and therefore the decision of 17 july 2014 should be considered null and void. i believe that the commission should suspend any decision to reinstate fiji in annex i to the market access regulation as a result of the application of the provisional epa until the announced elections have been successfully held in accordance with international standards. similarly, the commission should not propose a new delegated act in this respect until after a transitional period which allows for a proper assessment of the stability and irreversibility of the democratic reform process.
in writing. - i voted in favour because you are calling for the annulment of the act of ratification of the economic partnership agreement with fiji. the current self-proclaimed military government of fiji is not entitled to take decisions on the implementation and ratification of the agreement and therefore the decision of 17 july 2014 should be considered null and void. i believe that the commission should suspend any decision to reinstate fiji in annex i to the market access regulation as a result of the application of the provisional epa until the announced elections have been successfully held in accordance with international standards. similarly, the commission should not propose a new delegated act in this respect until after a transitional period which allows for a proper assessment of the stability and irreversibility of the democratic reform process.
in writing. - i voted in favour because you are calling for the annulment of the act of ratification of the economic partnership agreement with fiji. the current self-proclaimed military government of fiji is not entitled to take decisions on the implementation and ratification of the agreement and therefore the decision of 17 july 2014 should be considered null and void. i believe that the commission should suspend any decision to reinstate fiji in annex i to the market access regulation as a result of the application of the provisional epa until the announced elections have been successfully held in accordance with international standards. similarly, the commission should not propose a new delegated act in this respect until after a transitional period which allows for a proper assessment of the stability and irreversibility of the democratic reform process.
in writing. while we are holding this debate, in tenerife, the neighbours are struggling today to recover from the terrible storm of water that for several hours discharged over santa cruz de tenerife and other areas of the island, causing serious material damage to buildings, cars and public infrastructure. and what's worse, it took a person's life. we are looking today at how to improve flood response at european level, and i ask you to pay close attention to the situation of the outermost regions and, in particular, the canary islands, because the geographical situation and characteristics of these regions make them more vulnerable to this type of natural phenomenon. it is about preventing these catastrophes and minimising risks, so that european citizens feel that wherever they live, there is an adequate eu response when they need it most. the solidarity fund is not a suitable solution, because the threshold for access to funds is still very high and it does not respond to specific situations such as the one experienced yesterday in tenerife. we cannot do anything to prevent the heavy rains, but we can certainly do something to lessen their devastating effects.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, a few weeks ago a nurse teresa romero was infected with ebola in madrid. today we're happy because she may already be cured. despite this, this case highlights the enormous political negligence of the spanish government in tackling the virus. in line with the complaints of the european federation of public service unions, we denounce the lack of resources, means and preparation that the spanish authorities have devoted to this problem. those fighting ebola have suffered cuts over the last five years, both from spain and from the european union. right now in spain, nurses are being employed on three-week contracts and without a hazard premium. the safety equipment and suits are not being adequate, as the people concerned themselves keep on denouncing; the austerity imposed from europe has led to this organizational chaos and this dramatic lack of means that endangers millions of people. in my country, health workers are real heroes. are you going to continue to allow the continued dismantling of public health? and are you going to conduct some kind of investigation to determine political responsibilities in this crisis?
to fight ebola, medicines are not enough. the causes that make people highly vulnerable to this virus must also be tackled. the massive extraction by the western powers of the great wealth accumulated in the soils of countries such as liberia, guinea, côte d'ivoire and sierra leone is the cause of hunger, the impoverishment of these populations and unemployment of over 80%, as well as of long periods of war. the policies imposed on these countries by the world bank, the international monetary fund and the african development bank are also responsible for the dismantling of public services, especially health systems, which makes it very difficult to contain this disease. the solution, therefore, is to send in soldiers and give money to the western pharmaceutical industry. the affected countries need health workers, they need measures to recover and strengthen the system of... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the foreign ministers of the 28 countries of the european union are meeting today to discuss the ebola problem. seven months after the outbreak! a little late, isn't it? but of course, until now it was a problem of africa, a continent ravaged by hunger, misery and war, where we europeans have many interests and responsibilities. the lack of solidarity there and the improvisation here have already caused 4 500 deaths and 9 000 injuries, 14 in the european union. we reacted late and badly. the management in spain has been disastrous and the world health organization itself acknowledges many failures in managing the crisis. the health minister of the community of madrid accused the spanish nurse of being the one to blame. something indecent, for which you are not worthy of an apology. our lack of solidarity leads to death. why was there no action taken earlier with hospitals and specialized help? this parliament must demand a new approach to development aid and a strict european protocol to control the disease here, which also includes movements at american bases, such as rota, from where the united states intends to direct its operations against ebola. otherwise we will remain ineffective and uncooperative.
mr president, a case of contagion in europe that is healing does not show the power of ebola, not the full power of ebola. the power of ebola is reflected in thousands and thousands of citizens in africa who cannot be cured. ebola is cured with hygiene and medicine, not politics. spain reacted with professionalism and seriousness to a contagion, which occurred in madrid, of a volunteer, a heroine: teresa romero. and today, thanks to the spanish health services, he is in the process of healing. we're not always going to get it. so it's very important that we be clear that, in the face of this disease, our lack of solidarity could trigger a global pandemic: our lack of solidarity alone. we must give europe peace of mind, but we must give africa hope. barriers and controls alone will not save europe from ebola. if we do not save africa, it is impossible to save europe: we must go where the problem is, and we must tell the citizens the truth.
mr president, it is clear that the international community as a whole has been playing down the problem of the ebola epidemic - and i refer to the clear mistakes made by the spanish government, which are a good example of this. we may have thought that the virus could understand borders and we would not know about cases in europe, but the truth is that the role of the european union must be strengthened. we must ask for coordinated protocols at the border, a common system for the evacuation of returnees, but above all we must ask for action at the origin, action in west africa. we support a civilian mission; we welcome the conclusions of the foreign ministers' council in luxembourg today. but what we are asking for in particular is that the next european council should show the commitment and solidarity required to tackle this great problem, and that is simply 'enough funds', funds with 'fresh' money, so that good intentions can really be turned into action.
in writing. there had never been an ebola outbreak outside of africa, nor were we expecting it. now, doctors and health workers have gained experience, the operating system is up to date, facilities are being improved and protocols and pharmacological resources have been improved. with experience, we have learned in spain, in europe and in the united states. i want to express my admiration for all the health professionals who are giving their best to fight the disease. and also my utter revulsion at those who have taken advantage of a tragedy to spread panic, stirring up the basest passions from ignorance, demagogy and political opportunism. fortunately, this ebola crisis has been overcome in spain thanks to good management, but i have no doubt that in the coming days we will be witnessing the media spectacle of ebola by those who still want to obtain personal profits of any kind and at any price. however, we must identify the shortcomings and correct them, and we must devote more effort to research. and we must address africa's shortcomings more and better.
in writing. as the next commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management, christos stylianides, said, ebola must be addressed as a major natural disaster. and we need to be there, in the affected areas. our objectives must be based on prevention, aid, information and research. humanitarian aid is essential for the most needy in the most remote and forgotten areas. we want to isolate the ebola virus, but not isolate the affected countries. in spain, hopeful news about the health of nurse teresa romero invites calm. their contacts have been and are being tracked and the government is coordinating all the experts involved in the case. a special committee has been set up, coordinated with a scientific committee. spain has followed the recommendations of the who, coordinating, training and strengthening the protocols. we would be wrong to let fear spread or to prematurely disqualify health care systems that, while fallible, are our best allies. these are times to forget our political colour and put ourselves at the disposal of whatever government.
in writing. we all know the devastation that ebola is causing in africa, both for deaths caused by the disease itself and for mortality associated with other diseases that are not treated due to the collapse of hospitals and the reluctance of the population to go to them for fear of being infected with ebola. the european union must improve its contribution to the fight against an epidemic whose spread only increases the possibility of new cases in europe. we cannot close our borders, but we must strengthen our protocols for responding to cases confirmed on our territory and we must focus our action on the african countries affected. the case of senegal shows that it is not impossible to stop the transmission of the virus. let us help guinea, sierra leone and liberia to follow the same path. if not, continuing as we are going will lead, according to who estimates, to up to 10,000 new cases every week in december in west africa alone.
madam president, the berlin and paris summits were a failure and unfortunately the milan conference brought nothing new: insufficient budgets and out of time; vague objectives - the insistence on aggressive labour reforms against workers; wage cuts and fewer rights and protections. in short, precarious work, increased temporary work and unwanted parttime work. in spain, for example, with over 50% of youth unemployment, training contracts amount to barely 7 800 contracts a month. with 50% of youth unemployment, as i said, this is absolutely ridiculous. this is not the answer. in short, with all these policies decided at the summits, all we see is the increase in poverty, the increase in inequality between our countries and within the european union itself. and you announce an investment plan without even knowing if there's going to be new money to carry it out. does 1% of the european union budget seem sufficient to us? this is absolutely ridiculous. we want to create jobs and we want them to be of quality. let's stop with the big summits and start putting resources towards growth, to stimulate demand and public investment and public services! the member states must act as employers of last resort in this situation, and this will also stimulate private investment, otherwise there will be no access to credit.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the council, a summit is practically nothing - and we have had a few already. i do not know, to bring together 16 heads of state and government for these poor conclusions seems frankly very unconstructive. we have been told, once again, about structural reforms, about continuing to comply with the fiscal frameworks already in place, which we know have been a real failure. you are telling us, mr andor, that the great structural reform in the field of employment is the youth guarantee. don't play games with us! the great structural reform, the great structural reforms in the field of employment, are the labour reforms that have been carried out in each of the countries and which have been a real disaster in spain, since the implementation of the last one, 400 000 fewer people employed. they talk about investment and growth, but they do not give us anything concrete, as has become the custom in this house, and they do not finally tell us about fundamental questions: what about the forced mobility of our young people, the longterm unemployment, the impact of the reforms on equality between men and women? and one last thing: do not talk about education when, at the moment, we are driving young people out of higher education because of the reform we are carrying out, because, for example, in college, the fees are already absolutely unbearable for many of our young people. so please, start turning around these policies that are leading us to failure.
madam president, these summits are intended to show concern at the highest level for a dramatic problem for millions of young people with no future, for which they provide solutions which are not only inefficient but which all too often make the situation worse. at best, they offer a precarious horizon based on underemployment. the youth guarantee programme, as we have already pointed out, is based on the premise that the main difficulty for young people in finding employment is their employability, that is to say, that they do not have sufficient training or flexibility. the problem is how to set priorities: is it to benefit big business or to solve people's problems? the flexibilization and continuous precariousness of working conditions mean sacrificing people to solve the problems generated by financial speculation. the solutions go the other way: what we have to do is put the economy at the service of the citizens and not put the citizens at the service of the private interests of the financial corporations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mr lavrilleux, there are many ways to find solutions, provided that the way is the will to put people's needs first. there are studies which suggest that, by promoting green employment alone, two million jobs would be created in spain. now, if the direction is to destroy the labour market, if the solution is to make redundancies cheaper - as mr renzi wants to do - if the solution is to raise the retirement age instead of reducing it to distribute work, then we will not create more jobs.
madam president, history seems to be repeating itself: european governments are meeting at summits and europeans are walking on the edge of the abyss once again. it's like a sort of déjà vu. after this summer, five years later, very negative macroeconomic data indicate that we are entering a recession in europe again - this would be the third one - and all the international analysts tell us that we are again the source of problems for the global economic recovery, causing, as we have said today, an extremely painful unemployment rate, a lot of poverty, precariousness and forced emigration in many countries. the worst part of all of this is that some of this pain is self-inflicted by the policies that we are putting in place. so please, let's listen to all those who are asking us to activate demand as the only way to use the leverage of the public sector and investment to get out of this economic crisis. because otherwise it will be impossible to restore employment, including for young people, on this continent. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. it is difficult to answer a question which you have not asked, but i will tell the honourable member that i am here to represent europeans - not just the united kingdom - and also to put forward the problems which my country, catalonia and spain are suffering, and i believe that the problems we are experiencing today cannot be attributed to free movement. and over the last century, by preventing free movement and driving economies into protectionism, we have witnessed the greatest social, economic and political disasters this continent has ever known.
madam president, i come from a people in southern europe, from galicia, beaten by debt and beaten by the troika. in my country, youth are still unemployed, thousands of young people since 2008 have left the country in search of work, many thousands remain in the country in search of work, for long journeys, but cannot find it. i would really like to ask the council and the commission when there will be real measures to ensure that young people and other unemployed people have jobs, quality jobs, and that they do not remain poor workers as is the case today.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to have the opportunity to take part this morning in the debate on the european semester. i have examined the draft resolution which forms the basis of this debate and i am impressed by the wide range of issues it deals with and the importance of the issues it addresses. in fact, the debate this morning goes beyond the mechanics of economic coordination. we are here to discuss how europe conducts its economic policy, its employment policy and all the other policies which contribute to employment and growth. the resolution focuses on the implementation of the priorities for 2014: implementation is key; we already have strategic guidelines at the level of the european union, the conclusions of the european council and, for each member state, country-specific recommendations. the implementation of these recommendations requires bold structural reforms, including in areas of national competence, which sometimes conflict with acquired rights. the benefits are slow to appear, which in turn increases political pressure. the council is strongly encouraging the member states to undertake such reforms. this debate is about the priorities for 2014, but we must recognise that the european semester is not and cannot be an exercise in which priorities change radically from one year to the next. some details may change from one year to the next, but the priorities themselves fall within a longer time horizon. that is what the presidency is doing this autumn. let us look at the european semester in the wider context of the europe 2020 strategy and its mid-term review. the review should also strengthen the link between all the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the european semester. that is why the presidency has launched a political reflection at council level on the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy. we decided from the outset that all the parties concerned should be involved in this exercise, including, for example, those involved in areas such as agriculture, culture and cohesion. the exercise is still ongoing, but i would like to take this opportunity to highlight some of the initial results. first, all the debates so far have confirmed the importance of keeping the europe 2020 strategy's focus on jobs and growth. the second message is about ambition. despite the significant progress made, particularly in energy and education, we must recognize that we are not on track in all areas. employment in particular is a matter of grave concern. but the fact that progress is not enough does not mean that we should pursue less ambitious goals. the third message is about strengthening governance. policy directions issued in the context of the european semester can sometimes be bitter pills. but i'm glad to say that no one wants to weaken the semester. in fact, we should rather try to streamline the process and improve the outcomes. we must also ensure that all those who have to implement reforms are included in the process. this includes not only governments but also parliaments and other stakeholders, both at national and european union level. let me say a few words about the sectoral contributions to this debate. on competitiveness, the council confirmed in september that the single market and industrial competitiveness must be firmly integrated into the europe 2020 strategy. in particular, in the field of research and innovation, which play a key role in europe's economic recovery, the quality of investment in research and innovation is as essential as the level of spending. we must do more to promote a european research area. in the field of economic policy, the council's approach is based on three pillars which represent a combination of measures to be implemented simultaneously and jointly by the member states. the first is structural reform, which i have already mentioned and which is closely linked to the second. the second is investment, which is a key priority for the italian presidency, and the third is the need to build confidence through a differentiated budgetary policy geared to growth and respect for the stability and growth pact, while making use of the flexibility inherent in its rules. the council welcomes president-elect juncker's announcement that he will present an investment initiative within the first three months of his mandate. investment will help to boost demand in the short term, but will also help to increase the growth potential of the economy in the long term. as regards employment and social affairs, the council discussed the europe 2020 strategy last week, and the italian presidency brought together heads of state at the beginning of october to find solutions to the problem of unemployment, but this concerns the in-depth debate we had in the previous point. in this regard, i would draw your attention to the letter signed by 22 member states, with the support of the italian presidency, which stresses the need for better integration of gender equality in the revised strategy. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have outlined the main points of our work so far. the ministers for the environment, cohesion, education, culture, transport, energy and telecommunications will also be making their contribution. we shall then summarize the situation and prepare a report for the general affairs council in december. we hope that this joint political reflection will be useful to the new commission when it prepares its proposals for the mid-term review. thank you for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr philippe de backer, and all the other members for their valuable contribution to parliament’s report on the european semester. this report is a timely and important contribution to the topical debate on economic governance in the eu. the report touches upon a wide range of issues, many of which are related to parliament’s expectations of the commission in the future. provided that parliament confirms the new college tomorrow, the new commission can be in place at the beginning of november. so we are currently in the middle of transition. i therefore hope you understand that here today i will not be in a position to answer all your questions related to the future actions of the new commission. however, i can assure you that this does not mean that we are not listening. on the contrary, we have taken into consideration the points you have raised in the report. i can also assure you that this will have the attention of the new commission. i fully agree with you that the most pressing challenge ahead of us is to create sustainable growth and generate jobs. the european semester has been an extremely useful exercise in identifying and coordinating policy responses to the challenges faced by individual member states and the eu as a whole. the member states are adjusting to the reinforced coordination process and common rules we built together in the depths of the crisis. the semester has proven to be fundamental in presenting incentives for significant fiscal and structural reforms in the member states. these are the very reforms that are essential to exit the crisis stronger and more united. the market turbulence of last week reminded us of the need to stay the course with reforms, in order to secure the confidence of the markets and, in doing so, unlock our growth potential and open up more job opportunities. this continues to be at the very core of the eu’s agenda going forward. there is clearly room for improvement. the next commission will review the europe 2020 strategy and will present the upcoming annual growth survey at the launch of the next european semester cycle. in the report there is, quite rightly, a great focus on the importance of implementing and monitoring the recommendations in the european semester. the recommendations must be concrete. they must not only address fiscal consolidation, but also structural reforms that can create sustainable and socially-balanced growth. jobs are making the eu market more competitive. the success of the european semester depends on implementation. this is why we monitor the implementation of reforms throughout the year and take action in case of insufficient or harmful policy development. it is important to recall that non-compliance with recommendations will not in itself trigger sanctions, but nor is it meant to. this is about policy coordination. implementation of the country-specific recommendations ultimately relies on national policy-making at the national parliaments. in this regard, i wish to take the opportunity to emphasise three significant findings in the report. first is the importance of putting in place a comprehensive mechanism that promotes the exchange of best practices between all national and eu-level actors responsible for getting more young people into work. in this regard, it is essential to speed up the implementation of programmes such as cosme, erasmus+ and horizon 2020, with nearly eur 80 billion of funding available over seven years. the second point is to devote more attention to improving the quality of jobs in order to match peoples’ skills with the real needs of the labour market. finally, i strongly support our fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and to shift the tax burden away from labour towards other forms of taxation that are less detrimental to growth and employment. one such example is environmental taxation. i see much agreement between the report and the commission’s own position. i hope this will be highlighted in our constructive and fruitful debate today.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. - mr president, commissioner, this is the third year in a row that i have been involved in this debate and it is true that we have good reports resulting from the consensus, but do you know what is really sad? it's that today i could do exactly the same intervention that i did a year ago, two years ago and three years ago. i would like to repeat that too much austerity is still suffocating us economically in the european union and is still causing the highest unemployment rates in our history. i could say again that the strategy of savage wage devaluation that we are applying to gain competitiveness is making us more dependent on economic conditions outside, but it is also impoverishing us inside. i could tell you again that after the lavish public money we have spent to bail out the banks, credit still does not reach businesses and families, and that what does reach them is very high rates, precisely because we never demand economic credit counterparts to give that money. i could tell you that some of the structural reforms we have promoted, although necessary - labour, health, pensions - have depressed our domestic demand and multiplied inequality among europeans. i could say again that monetary policy alone will not get us out of the crisis, that we need to be brave with fiscal policy, with stimulus, with investment. it is a shame that we have only allocated six billion euros to combat youth unemployment, but what a shame that the states have not yet used them, and that those who are planning to do so are using them only to promote precariousness. i could tell you all this again. but, on the eve of the third recession in the european union, on the eve of the highest unemployment and poverty rates in our history, i can only think of one question to ask you, commissioner, and to the council: what the hell are you waiting for to change and to rectify?
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the great work he has done in trying to agree on a common position. i agree with the rapporteur, with mr de backer, that we need to boost growth and job creation. but let us not be mistaken: sustainable growth will not be possible with a juncker plan alone, however ambitious it may be; it will not be possible to achieve sustainable growth with strong action by the european central bank, however ambitious it may be. to have sustainable growth, we need the joint action of all the actors involved: european institutions and member states; we need reforms: reforms in the member states and reforms in europe too. spain is a benchmark: it is one of the most ambitious countries in terms of reforms, and it is one of the countries with the highest growth in the eurozone and the most jobs being created. and we also need expansive tax policies in those countries that can afford it. we therefore need joint action by europe and the member states to consolidate and achieve sustainable growth.
mr president, despite some criticisms which we appreciate in the report, we cannot support it, especially paragraphs 5, 6 and, in particular, 8, which stress the importance of maintaining the process of structural reforms. we know that behind this expression we could have elements of positive change towards a more just, sustainable and equitable society, but the reality is just the opposite: 'structural reforms' is the euphemism that has been used to weaken public pension systems, to give more market share to private systems, much less sustainable. structural reforms in the labour market have meant that dismissals have become cheaper, collective bargaining has been boosted, wages have been reduced, often to the point of misery, and in return, for example in spain, there are now 400 000 fewer people in employment than before 2012, and this can be extended to many other countries. the semester is now the lever used to force internal devaluation and this parliament should be firm in condemning this type of process.
mr president, i will not analyse the time lost under the ideological paradigm of austerity over the last few years. i would like to focus, however, on this new discourse which is beginning to emerge in europe - as my colleague mr gualtieri has already mentioned - and which is included in this report on the european semester thanks to the amendments tabled by our group. i therefore call on the european commission, the new european commission, which will include commissioner katainen, to promote the europeanisation of economic policy in the euro area, banking union, capital market union and fiscal union. and i also believe, as mr balz does, that europe needs to have a greater capacity to implement the country-specific recommendations. and i think the new commission will have to redirect the tensions between france, italy and germany, because it is so complicated when a country does not follow the rules we have set ourselves, as when it has a current account surplus of more than 7% or 8% of gdp and the european commission does nothing. we therefore believe that this european semester is a step forward from the vision of the 'euro pattern' that we have suffered in recent years to a genuine economic union, and we believe that the new commission must lead it with a clear commitment.
mr president, commissioner, today we can see that, thanks to an improvement in the economic situation - especially in countries like mine which have made the necessary structural reforms - country-specific recommendations can be more focused on social issues and on what is fundamental. our objectives can be growth and job creation focused on innovative sectors such as ict, the green sector or the digital economy, and also poverty reduction. the european union is talking about economic, social and territorial cohesion, and to achieve this we must, on the one hand, pay greater attention to the most vulnerable groups and those furthest from the labour market through active employment policies aimed at improving education and employability and facilitating retraining and transition to employment, mainly through dual training and lifelong learning. and on the other hand, productive investments and improved interconnections with rural areas and areas with permanent natural or demographic difficulties are needed, as these tend to have higher unemployment rates and higher costs for access to public services such as education and health. finally, i would like to stress the importance of smes taking back the leading role in the european union.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment funds are a key tool to support thousands of workers affected by the major structural changes taking place in our economy. i vote in favour of the mobilisation of eur 1 019 184 to give 300 workers in the metal sector in the valencian community a new opportunity to retraine, set up businesses or receive occupational counselling, i.e. to adapt their skills and abilities to existing demand. a sector in crisis which accounted for 25.4% of employment in the valencian industrial sector, and which has now lost a third of its turnover and almost half of its jobs. i consider it essential to support this type of employment recovery policy, with the confidence that the european commission and the spanish authorities will take the necessary steps to verify that the funds we are approving today are administered in accordance with the principles of transparency and efficiency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 1 019 184 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 633 workers who have lost their jobs in the manufacture of metal products in the valencian community as a result of structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, placement, promotion of entrepreneurship and incentives for setting up a business. although these aids are not sufficient in themselves to alleviate the problem of unemployment in the valencian community, they do constitute good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for 300 of the 633 workers made redundant in 142 metal products manufacturing companies in order to implement measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 april 2013 to 31 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in spain, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. this aid is partial, since only 300 workers would benefit, and appears insufficient as the amount of investment per head to support their training and job placement processes through self-employment would not reach eur 3400. we consider that this egf is just a warm blanket on the bleeding that is collected every month, in terms of mass redundancies, this europe of markets and capital. it is urgent to formulate policies for the sharing of wage labour and for a real decoupling between access to work and the right of access to basic public goods and services.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. this aid is partial, since only 300 workers would benefit, and appears insufficient as the amount of investment per head to support their training and job placement processes through self-employment would not reach eur 3400. we consider that this egf is a mere patch that is collected every month, in terms of mass redundancies, in this europe where the interests of big business are above the interests of citizens. it is urgent to formulate policies for the sharing of wage labour and for a real decoupling between access to work and the right of access to basic public goods and services.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. this aid is partial, since only 300 workers would benefit, and appears insufficient as the amount of investment per head to support their training and job placement processes through self-employment would not reach eur 3400. we consider that this egf is a mere patch in terms of mass redundancies in this europe where the interests of big business are put above the interests of citizens. it is urgent to formulate policies for the sharing of wage labour and for a real decoupling between access to work and the right of access to basic public goods and services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for 300 of the 633 workers made redundant in 142 metal products manufacturing companies in order to implement measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 april 2013 to 31 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in spain, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the fund to cover the period from 1 january 1997 to 31 december 1999. in this context, spain submitted an application to mobilise this fund following the dismissal of 633 workers in 142 companies engaged in the manufacture of metal products in the valencian community as a result of the economic crisis affecting the eu and especially spain in this sector. the proposal adopted by the commission consists of aid of eur 1 019 184 for 300 workers for the implementation of active labour market measures: career guidance services, placement, training activities, promotion of entrepreneurship, incentives for setting up a business, allowances for job search, contribution to travel costs and incentives for job creation. i have voted in favour of this report because i believe that the granting of this measure meets the requirements and constitutes significant aid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 1 019 184 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for 633 workers who have lost their jobs in the manufacturing of metal products in the valencian community as a result of structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, placement, promotion of entrepreneurship and incentives for setting up a business. although this aid is insufficient to alleviate the problem of unemployment in the valencian community, it can help the workers concerned to return to work. in any event, it would be desirable to improve the financial allocation of this aid in future.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. this aid is partial, since only 300 workers would benefit, and appears insufficient as the amount of investment per head to support their training and job placement processes through self-employment would not reach eur 3400. we consider that this egf is just a warm blanket on the bleeding that is collected every month, in terms of mass redundancies, this europe of markets and capital. it is urgent to formulate policies for the sharing of wage labour and for a real decoupling between access to work and the right of access to basic public goods and services.
in writing. - as a valencian member of parliament i vote in favour of this resolution and i stress the importance of this aid in alleviating the effects of the brutal deindustrialization which my country is suffering. i would like to point out, however, that what we urgently need is a reindustrialisation plan so that the competitiveness of our companies before the housing bubble burst can be restored and the jobs created that we urgently need can be created.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for 300 of the 633 workers made redundant in 142 metal products manufacturing companies in order to implement measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 april 2013 to 31 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of workers in this sector in the context of the high unemployment in the spanish state, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i welcome any incentive that gives the tools to fight the big malaise that affects so many people in the país valencià. we are aware that this economic turmoil that is affecting different economic sectors is more acute in the metal industry as some important commercial partners in emerging economies are subsidising them. adapted training and the recognition of skills and competences gained throughout a worker’s professional career is one of the keys to regain competitiveness in the labour market. i also welcome the fact that the package has been drawn up with the stakeholders.
in writing. - this european fund is essential to ensure the continuity of industry in the peripheral countries and the employability of workers in this sector. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for 300 of the 633 workers made redundant in 142 metal products manufacturing companies in order to implement measures co-financed by the egf during the period from 1 april 2013 to 31 december 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in spain, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 570 945 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 512 workers who have lost their jobs at the ford-werke gmbh assembly plant in genk as a result of the structural changes in world trade resulting from globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance and retraining activities. these aids provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 479 redundancies out of the 512 redundancies that occurred at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh, located in the town of genk, and at ten companies supplying ford genk in belgium during the reference period from 1 july 2013 to 1 november 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in belgium, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. we believe, however, that this globalisation adjustment fund is just a warm blanket over the bleeding that occurs every month in terms of massive redundancies in this europe of markets and capital. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is a mere patch that is collected every month, in terms of mass redundancies, in this europe where the interests of big business are above the interests of citizens. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is a mere patch, in terms of mass redundancies, in this europe where the interests of big business are above the interests of citizens. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 479 redundancies out of the 512 redundancies that occurred at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh, located in the town of genk, and at ten companies supplying ford genk in belgium during the reference period from 1 july 2013 to 1 november 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in belgium, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - this fund has been established by the eu to provide additional support to workers who have suffered the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis. belgium submitted a request for the mobilisation of this fund to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh and at other suppliers of this plant. the proposal adopted by the commission consists of a total of eur 570.945 for job placement aid for a total of 479 workers. i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 570 945 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 512 workers who have lost their jobs at the ford-werke gmbh assembly plant in genk as a result of the structural changes in world trade resulting from globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance and retraining activities. these aids provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. we believe, however, that this globalisation adjustment fund is just a warm blanket over the bleeding that occurs every month in terms of massive redundancies in this europe of markets and capital. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 479 redundancies out of the 512 redundancies that occurred at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh, located in the town of genk, and at ten companies supplying ford genk in belgium during the reference period from 1 july 2013 to 1 november 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of workers in the context of high unemployment in belgium, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - globalisation has good and bad aspects and it is important to find quick solutions when citizens are affected by that, especially the ones that are losing their jobs. we are conscious that the problems in ford genk will also affect its suppliers located in the same geographical area and that it will have a serious impact on the whole flemish region. i supported this report today in order to give these people a second chance and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. this should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible in order to minimise the impact on employment and the local economy.
in writing. - this european fund is essential to ensure the continuity of industry in the peripheral countries and the employability of workers in this sector. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 479 redundancies out of the 512 redundancies that occurred at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh, located in the town of genk, and at ten companies supplying ford genk in belgium during the reference period from 1 july 2013 to 1 november 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in belgium, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 911 934 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 939 workers who have lost their jobs at the carsid assembly plant in the charleroi region, which is dedicated to the production of continuous casting crude steel, as a result of the structural changes in world trade resulting from globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance and retraining activities. although this aid alone cannot alleviate the problem of unemployment in the charleroi region, it does provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 752 redundancies which occurred at the carsid sa assembly plant in the town of marcinelle, near charleroi, in belgium, during the reference period from 28 september 2012 to 28 january 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in belgium, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. we believe, however, that this globalisation adjustment fund is just a warm blanket over the bleeding that occurs every month in terms of massive redundancies in this europe of markets and capital. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is a mere patch that is collected every month, in terms of mass redundancies, in this europe where the interests of big business are above the interests of citizens. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is a mere patch, in terms of mass redundancies, in this europe where the interests of big business are above the interests of citizens. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 752 redundancies which occurred at the carsid sa assembly plant in the town of marcinelle, near charleroi, in belgium, during the reference period from 28 september 2012 to 28 january 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in belgium, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the effects of globalisation on sectors such as the automotive industry have been extrapolated to related sectors such as steel. this, coupled with the crisis which has particularly affected steel-demanding sectors such as construction, has led to a major recession in this sector. on 5 september 2014, the commission approved belgium's application to mobilise the egf in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the assembly plant of carsid sa. the aid amounted to eur 911 934 for the provision of services to help reintegrate 752 workers made redundant at the plant.
in writing. i also voted in favour of the resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund today. however, i have some doubts about the fact that most of the funds go to the old member states, even though the new member states are affected by globalisation in the same way. i trust that the further distribution of funds from this fund will convince me that the distribution is balanced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 911 934 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 939 workers who have lost their jobs at the carsid assembly plant in the charleroi region, which is dedicated to the production of continuous casting crude steel, as a result of the structural changes in world trade resulting from globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance and retraining activities. although this aid alone cannot alleviate the problem of unemployment in the charleroi region, it does provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned. in any event, it would be desirable to improve the financial allocation of this aid in future.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. we believe, however, that this globalisation adjustment fund is just a warm blanket over the bleeding that occurs every month in terms of massive redundancies in this europe of markets and capital. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 752 redundancies which occurred at the carsid sa assembly plant in the town of marcinelle, near charleroi, in belgium, during the reference period from 28 september 2012 to 28 january 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of workers in the context of high unemployment in belgium, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - this european fund is essential to ensure the continuity of industry in the peripheral countries and the employability of workers in this sector. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 752 redundancies which occurred at the carsid sa assembly plant in the town of marcinelle, near charleroi, in belgium, during the reference period from 28 september 2012 to 28 january 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in belgium, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 12 704 605 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 6120 workers who have lost their jobs at peugeot citroën automobiles (psa) in france as a result of the structural changes in world trade resulting from globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. although this aid alone cannot alleviate the problem of unemployment in the charleroi region, it does provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 6,120 redundancies in peugeot citroën automobiles, which operates in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers), redundancies which have been mainly in the île-de-france region (the aulnay plant) and in brittany (the rennes plant), with 2,357 workers being eligible for the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 1 october 2013 to 31 january 2014. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in france, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. we believe, however, that this globalisation adjustment fund is just a warm blanket over the bleeding that occurs every month in terms of massive redundancies in this europe of markets and capital. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is a mere patch that is collected every month, in terms of mass redundancies, in this europe where the interests of big business are above the interests of citizens. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is a mere patch, in terms of mass redundancies, in this europe where the interests of big business are above the interests of citizens. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 6 120 redundancies in peugeot citroën automobiles, which operates in division 29 of nace rev. 2 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers), redundancies which have been mainly in the île-de-france region (the aulnay plant) and in brittany (the rennes plant), with 2 357 workers being eligible for the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 1 october 2013 to 31 january 2014. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in france, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - on 10 september 2014, the commission adopted a decision to mobilise this fund for france. the reason for the request was the dismissal of 6 120 workers from the peugeot citroën automobiles company. the automobile sector in europe has been severely affected by structural changes due to globalisation and has led to other requests for mobilisation of this fund as we can see in the previous report. the aid will be eur 12 704 605 for services to facilitate the reintegration into employment of 2 357 of the workers made redundant. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 12 704 605 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 6 120 workers who have lost their jobs at peugeot citroën automobiles (psa) in france as a result of the structural changes in world trade brought about by globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. these aids provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned. however, it would be desirable to improve the financial allocation of this aid in future.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. we believe, however, that this globalisation adjustment fund is just a warm blanket over the bleeding that occurs every month in terms of massive redundancies in this europe of markets and capital. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 6,120 redundancies in peugeot citroën automobiles, which operates in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers), redundancies which have been mainly in the île-de-france region (the aulnay plant) and in brittany (the rennes plant), with 2,357 workers being eligible for the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 1 october 2013 to 31 january 2014. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of workers in the context of high unemployment in france, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - this european fund is essential to ensure the continuity of industry in the peripheral countries and the employability of workers in this sector. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for the 6,120 redundancies in peugeot citroën automobiles, which operates in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers), redundancies which have been mainly in the île-de-france region (the aulnay plant) and in brittany (the rennes plant), with 2,357 workers being eligible for the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 1 october 2013 to 31 january 2014. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in france, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
member of the commission. - mr president, you have listened to me with great patience and i shall not, of course, repeat my arguments. i would simply like to answer some of the questions raised by the previous speakers. first of all, i believe that the proof that the commission which i had the honour of chairing was on the right track is that the criticisms come from both ends of the house and very often in the same tone which reveals a refusal to see, categorically, the difficulties and the extraordinary challenges we have had to face, and the same tendency to give, of course, no coherent answer. the truth is that we have probably experienced the greatest economic and financial crisis since the beginning of our european integration, and that it was not the european union that caused it. it is this truth that some "sovereignists" - to use their expression - do not understand or do not want to understand. europe has not been the cause of excessive private debt and financial irresponsibility. on the contrary, all this has happened under national supervision or lack of it. europe is the answer. we now have one of the most ambitious regulatory and supervisory systems in the world, if not the most ambitious. to say that europe is worse because of the european union is a lie. it shows a complete lack of respect and intellectual rigor. it was not europe that caused the financial crisis, it was the united states that started it. europe was vulnerable, but the european union was only reacting, it was not the cause. and all of us who share the european ideal, whether we are on the right, the left or the centre, must have the courage to say so, otherwise we will reinforce - and this is an advice i give you when i leave office - the populisms of the extreme left or the extreme right. i listened carefully to some of you saying that 'populism is now stronger' and blaming the european union for this. my dear friends, that is not true. populism and xenophobia exist very clearly outside the european union. look what happened in switzerland, against immigrants; look what happened in norway, with this terrorist - a maniac - who killed i don't know how many young people because he is against a multicultural europe; look at the tea party in the united states. is it europe's fault that the tea party exists in the united states? in today's world, there is an aggressive populism, with arguments sometimes from the left, sometimes from the right, and it's hard, i have to admit, to tell the difference. so to say that this is the result of the european union is a lack of intellectual rigor and a lack of political honesty. what we have to do as europeans is to show that europe did not create the crisis, nor did the public debts of the member states. europe can do little when a member state, for example, falsifies its accounts. europe has had to deal with this. the first initiative of my second commission was to ask the member states to give us more powers to supervise national statistics, because in the first commission i chaired this was refused. this was not rejected by greece, it was rejected by the large member states who did not want to give more responsibility to the european union. so if we really want to debate, let us be precise and rigorous in terms of intellectual honesty and political rigor. that's why, dear friends, i won't waste your time. i would like to say something to you with great conviction. the team i have had the honour of chairing has worked - and i see some of you in this parliament now, and they know it - with great dedication and great rigour, always putting the european interest first, and i want to say to you, since we are an assembly of different political forces, always putting the idea of the european common good first. it was not my colleagues from the epp group, the socialists or the liberals who made up my commission, it was men and women who worked for europe. you know what my party is: it is the epp party and i am proud of it. but as president of the commission, my party has been europe. this is a message i would like to share with you, and in particular with the major pro-european forces of the centre-left and centre-right. of course, differences must be expressed, but they must not weaken the european camp. we must not give gifts to the extreme right and the extreme left. we must unite the pro-european forces. they must have the courage to defend europe. they must also do so in the capitals and not just here in strasbourg. we must be able to have this grand coalition for europe because i believe we have enough energy to win the battles of the present and the battle of the future.
por escrito. – el balance de la pasada legislatura no puede ser más negativo. para una mayoría de ciudadanos, europa ha pasado, de identificarse con la idea de solidaridad, a hacerlo con la de sacrificio. la mayoría conservadora ha impuesto un enfoque ideológico frente a la crisis priorizando la reducción de la deuda y el déficit fiscal frente al crecimiento y el empleo. la unión europea es la zona económica mundial con mayor impacto de la crisis sobre el empleo. nos ha costado la pérdida de más de 2,5 millones de empleos. se han disparado desigualdad, pobreza y exclusión social. la austeridad ha fracasado en europa. mientras obama apostó por políticas de estímulo. estados unidos crece y crea más de 8 millones de empleos. ahora, enfrentamos la amenaza de una tercera recesión. pero los promotores de la austeridad siguen apostando por el sufrimiento frente al crecimiento. como resultado, los ciudadanos se alejan de europa porque europa se ha alejado de ellos. y el populismo crece amenazando la idea misma de europa. la nueva comisión tiene la oportunidad y la obligación de corregir el rumbo. probablemente, no habrá otra.
, in writing. the outgoing president of the european commission, josé manuel durão barroso, delivered his farewell speech in the european parliament without even mentioning the unemployment that is affecting europe today, especially countries such as greece and spain. this is the main reflection of a decade in which the european commission, which should have devoted its main efforts to creating jobs and combating the crisis through growth policies and public investment, has been lacking in many areas. however, in recent years the european commission has concentrated its efforts on implementing the prescriptions that the heads of state or government were imposing from the european council, blurring the european commission's capacity for action and reaction. we are now facing an eu which must urgently change course to restore hope to a european dream that has been hijacked by the rise of populism and the far right and by the devastating effects of the crisis and the austerity policies that have led to high unemployment and the impoverishment of european families.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council meeting scheduled for the end of this week will be exceptional in several respects: the european council will be the last meeting of the european council under the first permanent president of the european council, mr van rompuy. and assuming that parliament approves the new commission tomorrow, it will also be the last of the current commission president barroso. but it will also be exceptional in substance: first, the european council is called upon to reach agreement on the 2030 framework for the european union's climate and energy policies. i do not need to remind this house of the importance of this matter. it is in the interest of all of us to develop a coherent european climate and energy policy, which ensures affordable energy prices, industrial competitiveness, security of supply and the achievement of climate and environmental objectives. it is certainly not an easy task, if our overall objective is clear, each member state has its own vision, reflecting a number of factors such as the accessibility of energy sources, their industrial capacity and energy demand and also the different environmental cultures. this means that the negotiations currently under way to prepare for this week's meeting are complex and represent a major challenge, but we all know how essential it is to ensure an ambitious outcome, not least in the light of the role that the european union wants and must play on the international stage as a world leader. the agreement should be global and the key point is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. the proposal under discussion is an internal emission reduction target of 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. to achieve this, six main chapters have been defined covering the eu-ets emission trade system and non-ets areas, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, the achievement of a fully functioning internal energy market, energy security and governance. i shall not go into too much detail, as the negotiations are still in progress, and as i speak the general affairs council is discussing these issues in the context of the process of preparing for the european council meeting. the presidency has worked hard to ensure that an agreement is reached. a successful outcome of this european council would allow the european union to present a contribution in line with the agreed timetable of the unefccc in warsaw for the conclusion of a comprehensive climate agreement by the first quarter of 2015. the step our leaders must take is therefore extremely important. in addition to energy and climate issues, the european council is called upon to discuss the economic situation. we know it is fragile and the latest forecasts remind us that we cannot afford any delay. we have managed to overcome the difficulties immediately following the crisis, but now we must boost growth, create jobs and develop competitiveness. only then can we rebuild an appropriate level of confidence in our economies. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by mentioning another extremely important point: the deadly spread of the ebola virus. you discussed this yesterday in the presence of the commission. i don't need to tell you that we are in the middle of a serious crisis. we need a global response both internally and externally, and it was agreed that the european council should take stock of the situation and, above all, highlight the strategic actions needed to bring this deadly virus under control.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i am honoured to be here today to present to you the views of the commission on the european council meeting this week. the summit will seek to agree on the 2030 climate and energy framework and discuss the economy and external developments, including ukraine, and we will also address the ebola epidemic. let me start with a few remarks on the economy. this week’s meeting is not one for decisions in this regard. it will be for the new commission to initiate the new european semester in a few weeks from now. throughout the crisis, yes, our comprehensive response has always been built upon the three pillars of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and targeted investments. this is still valid today. while economic recovery in the eu is still fragile and uneven, we are seeing that the efforts are paying off. those countries which downturned the most are now better off than those which are lagging behind in addressing the root causes of the crisis. the reforms to european economic governance have been instrumental in making this progress possible. together, we have changed the way that europe’s economies and financial sector are legislated, supervised and regulated. the framework for that has been created. now we need to stick to it and to fully implement it. this is very important for restoring confidence. agreeing a new framework on energy and climate policies for the period up to 2030 at this european council will show how credible we are in transforming our economies and societies towards a low-carbon future. the proposals in our current 2020 framework have been of strategic importance. they have put our union firmly into a position of global leadership and were widely recognised as a key contributor in the global fight against climate change. importantly, we came to these agreements by finding the right mix of ambition and realism. by combining two strands – environment and energy – consensus was possible. there are economic advantages to climate-friendly innovation and investment and an economic case for cost-effective decarbonisation is clearer than ever. we also broadened the scope to include energy security. recent challenges to our security and the strategic dimension have given energy security concerns even more impetus. energy security must therefore be part of the climate agenda. yet sadly our european climate ambition is far from being matched by the two most important polluters globally – the united states and china. public opinion in europe accepted the targets of 20-20-20 by 2020, even if they were aware of the difficulties in implementing them. the eu felt let down when a comprehensive global deal did not happen, despite pressing others to follow suit. but developments afterwards have shown that the union was and remains on the right side of the argument. there is now a renewed momentum towards a global, binding climate treaty to be agreed in paris next year. agreeing on our own 2030 framework now will set the tone; it would provide our union with key leverage in a crucial phase of the international negotiations. the commission’s 2030 proposal from january is the frame of reference for this eu debate. our proposals are clear, ambitious and balanced, with a 40% emission reduction target at their heart. the ball is now in the court of the european council. leaders must assume their responsibility; we expect difficult discussions but we are confident that a decisive deal is within reach now. the third issue to be discussed at the european council is the external situation, in particular the conflict between ukraine and russia. with the unsettled conflict in ukraine we realise more than ever that to defend our values and protect our interests, europe needs to take the lead and be active. we need to continue contributing to a political solution. at the same time, we need to demonstrate that unlawful and uncooperative behaviour brings with it heavy consequences. the situation in ukraine is a clash of world views that touches the very heart of the european union, its principles, its values and what it symbolises: freedom, democracy and rule of law. this is why the eu from the start took a principled position against russia’s illegal annexation of crimea and the destabilisation in ukraine’s eastern region. since then we have done all we could to make the most of a bad situation. the political and peaceful solution of the conflict has always remained our first priority. not any solution, but one that guaranteed the sovereignty, independence and unity of ukraine. our relations with our eastern neighbours are not detrimental to relations with the other neighbours. we never sought exclusivity in our relations. in fact, the european union has invested a lot in the strategic partnership with the russian federation, convinced that it is in our common interest to cooperate. developments are still unfolding. the european union continues to work for a politically negotiated solution. the commission has made every effort in this regard by taking the lead in promoting trilateral talks on sensitive issues such as trade and energy. just today, the commission is mediating another round of talks on the gas issue. on the security front, priority needs to be given to full implementation of the minsk agreements. this is the basis for restoring and consolidating trust. the ceasefire needs to be respected and verified. elections in the donbas need to be held in accordance with ukrainian law and the border needs to be controlled and monitored. we cannot give up on ukraine. we cannot give up on reaching a solution. if we do not reach a solution, what would be at risk would be both ukraine’s independence and also the security, stability and unity of the european continent. we must defend the credibility of a multilateral order based on values, equality and the rule of law. at the same time, we are greatly concerned by the humanitarian and security situation in syria and iraq. it is deteriorating dramatically day by day. the rapid progression of isil is alarming. military action in line with international law is necessary, but it is not enough. it needs to be part of the wider effort, comprising measures in the political and diplomatic, counter-terrorism and terrorism funding, humanitarian and communication fields. the commission has been active on the humanitarian part. to date, around eur 2.9 billion has been mobilised to those in need in syria and iraq, but the security situation impacts negatively the delivery of aid. while military intervention will be the key to defeating isil, it is imperative not to link the delivery of humanitarian aid to military objectives. humanitarian access should not be put at risk. unfortunately, there is yet another crisis which the european council will have to address, and this is ebola. the ebola outbreak is not just a problem for west africa; it is a challenge for the international community as a whole and europe has a responsibility to do its part. the commission and the member states have provided assistance to the countries affected and to the humanitarian effort on the ground – more than eur 600 million already, and it is not just money. twelve member states are providing medical and other equipment through the eu civil protection mechanism. but we need to do more to help the affected african countries and also protect our own citizens. the commission discussed this issue at todayʼs college, and will feed into a discussion at the european council. this week’s european council will cover very telling issues as far as the need for european union unity is concerned: what the european union is for; what it should do and what challenges it faces. i look forward to hearing your views here today on how we can work together to tackle these challenges. it is with this spirit of cooperation and with the crucial support of this house that europe must be successful in coping with today’s and tomorrow’s challenges.
i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report, which has been very well received by the house. but if we want to turn that around, we have to look at the data of reality and not remain blind to all the alarms that are being set off. we should listen to the flood of analyses and recommendations from experts and think tanks and not remain deaf to this analytical coincidence, and we should abandon insensibility to the social consequences of the policies that have been put in place. if we look at the data, we see that the latest oecd and international monetary fund reports agree that the growth prospects in the european union in 2014 and 2015 are not optimistic at all; any prospects are worse than what has happened before. we also see that, at best, we are in an economic slump and, at worst, we are entering a third recession. but the middle scenario is stagnation, what the imf has called "secular stagnation". if we talk about inflation, we see that the best hypothesis is low deflation, and the worst hypothesis is clear deflation, and that either of these limits our chances of reducing the deficit and increasing growth. at the same time, we have not been able to reduce the level of unemployment either. in view of this situation, analyses by the imf, the oecd, think tanks and the german institute for economic studies itself point out that what is happening to us is a consequence of the policies we have been implementing. what can be done about this? the new commission must take advantage of this situation to launch the €300 billion programme of public and private funds to stimulate growth and employment. where to do it? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources. parliament has always been more ambitious than the commission in this respect, and the socialist group more than parliament as a whole. so, cheers to the new commission! try to put in place a new economic, environmental, sustainable policy in the european union.
in writing. the ec will decide on the 2030 climate and energy targets. juncker called for a 'green europe, a leader in renewable energy' and now we have to make it happen. the ep set out its position in february 2014 and, although the s$d group was more ambitious, we must not lower the ep's approved demands (30% on renewables, binding on member states; savings and efficiency -40% binding and -40% emissions) to improve the competitiveness of the european economy, to preserve the environment and to secure energy supply. this requires progress in the unification of the energy market in europe, with the development of interconnections being crucial, an objective which has been 'lagging' because of the lack of political will to allow the existence of energy islands, such as the iberian peninsula, which can play a relevant role in the supply of gas to the rest of europe, as well as in the development of renewable energies.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is a pleasure and an honour for me to be taking part once again in a sitting of the european parliament, which has on its agenda items relating to the community budget. specifically, the subject we are now dealing with concerns first of all the draft amending budget no 2 for 2014, already approved by the council at its meeting of 14 july 2014. as you know, this budget is part of a procedure which is precisely codified in the financial regulation, which, once the result of the previous financial year has been defined, requires the adoption of the necessary budgetary changes for the current year. in line with the forecasts in the financial regulation, the commission therefore proposed to book in 2014 the surplus of around eur 1 billion recorded in the 2013 budget. we note that the european parliament is about to approve amendments to this purely technical budget, providing for a new budget line on which to set aside this amount pending its use for unforeseen payments. this approach - as we have been told very clearly - is reflected in the more general discussions we are having on the 2014 amending budgets and the draft budget for 2015. it goes without saying that the amendment proposal itself cannot be accepted by the council, but it will obviously be taken into account in the more comprehensive debate we will have in the conciliation procedure, and i am sure that in this context we will be able to strike the right balance for a decision which meets the needs of the various parties in accordance with the rules laid down by the legislation in force.
member of the commission. - madam president, the commission proposal for this draft amending budget was tabled in april 2014, in accordance with the article 18 of the financial regulation. it concerns the budgeting of the 2013 surplus. as pointed out by the rapporteur, mr deprez, the amount of the surplus is one billion, five million euros, and it mostly comes from the additional revenue from competition fines received towards the end of 2013. only a very small part of the 2013 surplus – somewhere in the region of eur 275 million out of an executed budget of almost eur 144 billion – comes from the expenditure side of the budget. at the same time, the commission has also presented amending budgets requesting additional expenditure of eur 4.7 billion since the end of last may. last year, the reinforcement of payments in amending budgets 2 and 8 of 2013, totalling eur 11.2 billion, had been fully used by the end of 2013. this year again, the situation of payment is tight; it started with a backlog of eur 23.4 billion. we simply have no possibilities for redeployment, and several budget lines have been fully exhausted. overall implementation stands at the level of 82%. it is in light of this scarcity of payments across the budget that the commission understands the amendments proposed by the parliament to create a reserve for payments in the 2014 budget with the same amount as the surplus. out of the seven amending budgets, six are still outstanding. two of them concern the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund. together with the council, we will need to find a compromise on all draft amending budgets on the table – including the three for this year – which reinforces payments amounting to eur 4.7 billion. the commission considers that all of the elements needed to do so quickly are available. this year, we have a unique opportunity to cover the additional expenditure with the revenue mainly coming from funds. this means that we can cover it at no cost to member states’ budgets. taking this decision will only increase the eu’s credibility and allow us to gain control over the eu budget. i invite members to act responsibly and to take the appropriate decisions in the forthcoming conciliation.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. it is true that the agenda includes the second amending budget, but it is clear that what is on the table and at the heart of the debate we are having at the moment in the committee on budgets and in the european parliament is how we solve the payment crisis that we have been dragging on since 2010. i have the impression that when we talk about payments we often repeat the obvious, but it seems that the council's position is not so clear on this point; so we must continue to repeat the obvious and be patient to see if we can get the council to change its position once and for all. and the first obvious thing, which we keep repeating in this parliament, is that we have to pay what we owe. i think it is quite simple to explain to our citizens that in the european union, the council, the commission and parliament we have taken decisions and reached agreements; that many companies, ngos, public institutions, private institutions and universities have trusted in the proposals we have made, have participated in european programmes and now all we have to do is simply pay the invoices they have sent us in relation to those agreements we have reached with them. and so this is an obvious fact which we shall be tired of repeating, but which it seems that some countries, at least in the council, are not so clear. that is an unacceptable situation. we cannot continue to delay the settlement of the arrears. we have been discussing this problem since 2010 and the situation is becoming more and more worrying, until we reach some 26 or 30 billion euros, because we do not even know what figure we are talking about anymore. and i will say two more obvious things: firstly, not paying is not respecting those agreements we have reached. and secondly, by not paying, we are also not respecting the agreement on the financial framework, and what we are really doing is cutting the budget through the back door. as the commission has told you, you have a golden opportunity, it will not cost you a single euro to reduce these defaults by at least five billion euros. take advantage of the opportunity!
member of the commission. - madam president, to sum up this whole discussion, it is clearly this: eu credibility is at stake and there is no question to answer; we have to fulfil our obligations. we have a unique situation: to solve the problem at no expense to the member states. that is a really unique situation as far as i know; it has never happened in the past. the commission has this money, it is on the account – eur 5 billion. legally, we are not able to use it; we have to give it back to the member states. so now, the reply awaited from the council is whether the council and the member states prefer to put this money in their own pockets and ignore the commitments they have made in the past, and ignore the payments they have to make, or do they want to really address the problem, show their european will and pay the bills? the problem is that what we observe is an increasing reluctance by the member states to pay their bills, to contribute to the european union budget as such. there is an ongoing tendency to cut as much as possible without any rationale, while at the same time taking on new obligations, new commitments. we have commitments which were taken on during the multiannual financial framework (mff) negotiations which have not been respected within the first year of its implementation. this all creates a nightmare for the budget negotiations. we spend days and days trying to figure out whether the council is going to respect its commitments or not; instead of doing simple calculations to see how much money we have to devote to paying the bills. the decision on the whole set of amending budgets could be made very easily; the calculation is simple: more than eur 5 billion available, a little bit less than eur 5 billion to be paid. the outcome is positive and yet still the council hesitates. it is an unacceptable situation. if we do as the council is proposing – postpone as many decisions as possible – it will not be possible to implement the mff properly. we will create additional tensions in the budgets for 2015 and 2016. we will probably need a major reform soon and have to make it publically known that the european union is not able to implement its own decisions from the past and is not a credible partner for researchers, small and medium-sized enterprises and european citizens.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i have listened to the speeches; i have to say on the specific item on the agenda today, actually, i think we are all in. parliament intends to amend the commission's proposal for amendment no 2 because it wants it to be discussed together with all the other amendments, inevitably in a situation where we are going to discuss it in conciliation and of course the council has said nothing but the same thing in this respect. that is to say, the parliament's amendment in itself, which is taken out of context, cannot of course be accepted by us, provided that we understand perfectly well, as we have been told, that the logic is to think globally, and we will think globally. for the rest, i can only assure you that the presidency is making every effort to reach an agreement as soon as possible, respecting of course our joint declaration on payments adopted last year in the context of the adoption of the 2014 budget. i have heard repeatedly that the council's position is not acceptable, and that it is typically concentrated on amendment no 3, since we were of course prepared to accept amendment no 2 as it stands, just as we are not opposed to amendment no 4. i would like to stress, however, that at the moment, rather than a position to the contrary, one can legitimately complain of a lack of a definite position, which is part of the desire to seek a position that is good rather than quick, precisely in the name of attention to credibility for the european union and for the individual institutions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today we are debating here and tomorrow we will vote - i hope by a large majority - on the draft budget for 2015, and i can say that our position is absolutely responsible and consistent with the situation we are living in. we have been in a deep economic crisis for seven years, the austerity policies have brought nothing but suffering, and not only are we not getting out of the crisis, but we are facing a high probability of a third recession and therefore it is more than obvious that we have to change the course of economic policy and, above all, activate demand through the public sector. and that is where the european budget can play an important role, because with just 1% of gross domestic product, the european budget stimulates public investment complementing national budgets and, in addition, it boosts growth and employment. in the last few months we have talked a lot about new investment plans, new strategies, focusing on priorities. i would like to remind you that we already had a lisbon strategy which failed because of a lack of political will and that now, although some have been forgotten, we also have the europe 2020 strategy, which will also fail if we do not put in the political will and, above all, the necessary funds. and we have just approved the multiannual financial framework, which is nothing more than a table showing the political and budgetary priorities for seven years. so we don't have to reinvent the wheel every year, because great strategies and white papers are in our drawers. but here we have the 2015 budget and the financial framework with a series of potentials that we must exploit to the full, and that is what we have done in our draft budget, because we propose a budget to the full of its capacities to channel productive economies, so that europe can compete in the world in quality and knowledge, and so that we can once again be an example of a welfare society that cares for its people. and that is why we have decided to concentrate our efforts on the core programmes of the europe 2020 strategy, which are aimed at promoting growth, research, employment and competitiveness; we improve access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises or we put more money into erasmus or marie curie grants; we also want to allocate funds to energy infrastructure, and we have not forgotten farmers and fishermen, nor the damage caused by the russian veto on our products. we have designed a budget that combats inequalities, supporting the most disadvantaged regions, but also helping the people who are suffering the most, inside and outside our borders, with the european fund for aid to the most deprived or with policies relating to asylum, migration and internal security. and we have also allocated more money to neighbourhood policies, to development cooperation policy and - of course, essential - to humanitarian aid in order to be able to deal with all the humanitarian crises that we are having at the moment, all at once, in an unprecedented event. we cannot forget the aid to refugees and the increase in the funds available to unrwa so that it can continue to help the refugees of palestine. these are all the priorities of the european parliament; many of them, as i have said on other occasions, are the same as those of the european council. the problem is that your budget, your figures tell a very different story from ours, because you have political priorities, but you seem to have no budgetary priorities, and we do not agree with that position, because we cannot say that we are betting on research and at the same time cutting the budget. because you are once again treating the european budget as a budget item that can be cut at will. and this is not only the fault of the economic crisis and the state of the national accounts, but sometimes also of the lack of an absolute vision of the future and of a shared project. we have just seen this in the debate on payments, and it is evident from the attitude we have in taking on a debt of 26 billion euros, which, as has been said, is damaging to the credibility of the european union and is also having a devastating effect on economic recovery. we have proposed extraordinary measures and i hope that the council is prepared to negotiate and discuss these extraordinary measures and that together we can find a solution.
mr president, the absence of democracy and a democracy of stone-clad cardboard are two very similar things. in this great european theatre, we are today actors in a drama with a known end: more austerity, more unemployment, more misery. in the first act of the work, the european commission proposes a budget for 2015 that is stingy: no cohesion, no r & d, no stimulus against unemployment, no promotion of renewable energies, nothing. what is big in the mouth is small and sparse in the numbers. in the second act of the drama, the council comes in, cuts another 500 million and then, in the final act, the honourable members from across the parliamentary arc are very contestative and very keynesian, but only with the second part. they're taking three-quarters of the cut, but they look great in the media. if you approve these irresponsible budgets, you cannot be surprised that millions of people living in an economic emergency turn their backs on institutions that no longer serve or listen to them. if you turn this parliament into a theatre, do not be surprised when people turn theatres, streets and squares into real parliaments, parliaments which are called upon to replace this one.
mr president, gender equality is a principle of the european union and therefore the respect of this principle must also be applied in the community budget. it is important to note that there are some priorities, which we have raised since the negotiations in the committee on women's rights and gender equality, such as not allowing a single euro cut to the european institute for gender equality, which is doing an important job. in addition, the maintenance of the budget line for the daphne programme to combat gender-based violence is another key issue. today it is integrated into the general programme of "rights and citizenship", but it is necessary to continue to maintain this concept of a programme to combat gender-based violence. and let us not forget the contributions being made from the community budget to the non-governmental organisations and civil society working in this field. we have an important responsibility and gender mainstreaming must be a fundamental issue to be taken into account.
madam president, i did not want to miss this debate on the report on the council's position on the draft budget for 2015, but first i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs gardiazabal, on her work, which i think she has done very well. and now, yes, i want to take this opportunity with the commissioner and the council to say that what is being done with this manoeuvre that the commission has carried out - which, in my opinion, is a sham - through its letter of amendment of 15 october is a covert cut in the cap funds of just over 450 million euros that will be allocated to other policies to alleviate something - which i agree with all those who have spoken - which is the existing budgetary imbalance. but why does the cap budget have to pay for it? why should farmers in the european union have to pay for it?
member of the commission. - madam president, i was thinking about what to say now, but i think there is one issue that we have to clarify from the very beginning about this amending letter no 1 to the budget 2015. it is not true that this letter consists of cuts of any kind to direct payments. the crisis reserve is established by law on an annual basis by simple application of financial discipline. this crisis reserve was created to solve crisis problems in agriculture and that is what is being proposed by the commission: to apply the crisis reserve to the crisis situation. however, it does not have a direct impact on the level of direct payments for farmers. as you know, heading 2 for agriculture is one of the biggest in the eu budget. it consists of almost eur 45 billion. at the end of every budgetary year, calculations are done to see how much is left in additional revenues after fulfilling all the obligations to the farmers. when you look at the history of this heading in the past there were savings in every annual budget – savings amounting to at least half a billion euro, sometimes even a billion. this money was usually used to top up any direct payments that were legally eligible. so this will also be the case in 2015. what the commission has proposed in the amending letter is simply to improve the liquidity of the eu budget due to the scarce resources for payments. the only impact it will have is that some headings will have additional payment appropriations available at the beginning of the year when they are most needed, but it does not create any additional restrictions to heading 2. this amending letter does not change either the level of commitments under heading 2 or the level of payments available under heading 2. so what many of you have indicated – that the commissionʼs decision immediately reduces direct payments to farmers – is not true. you will see the result by the end of the year. we have produced the same type of amending letters every year in the past and it has never created such tensions. the same instruments were applied in every eu budget. the additional revenues that were indicated in heading 2 were transferred to all other headings on an annual basis because farmers are not able to use more money and resources than they are eligible for. heading 2 has the biggest margins of all headings. so we should not really concentrate too much on this situation. i can assure you that the amending letter does not create any reductions in direct payments for farmers and it does not have any direct influence on the level of direct payments that the farmers will have received by the end of the year. if i may make a few comments concerning the budget for 2015 as such. we have to remember that the eu annual budget is just an implementation of commitments taken previously in the mff; so if someone is arguing about why we spend money, we spend money because that was what was promised by member states. the commission is simply asking, or first indicating in its draft budget, how much money we need for a particular year – taking into account the commitments that were made by member states and taking into account the fact that 90% of the eu budget is spent in the member states by the member states – and not the commission, as we have to remember. it is not the commission that is trying to find new ways of spending money. ninety per cent of the budget is decided by member states. they have the projects to be financed and decided domestically. they launch the projects, they spend the money and they send the bills to the commission to be refunded. so the commission’s role is only to collect this information and then present to both arms of the budgetary authority how much money we need to fulfil their obligations or to refund money they have spent. so this whole process of discussion now as to whether we should cut more or less is actually about whether we should fulfil our obligations or not, whether we want to pay our bills back or not. that is the whole debate we are having here now.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i have listened to all the speeches, and i have heard many of them expressing concern about the question of the quantity of resources. i have heard, however, less of them who were concerned with the quality aspect and, in their use, with the impact that the resources have in practice on the spending programmes; i am absolutely in agreement with commissioner dominik that a very large part, the absolute majority of this budget is then spent across the member states in the member states, but that is precisely why the questions about the need to make efficiency as efficient as possible are questions that the council is asking itself. and i think that parliament should also include them more in its debate, along with the more exquisitely quantitative part. i am absolutely convinced, as has been said on many occasions, that this budgetary procedure should not be treated as usual. i am convinced of that, but that is true not only of the council, it is also true of parliament. and i do not believe that a proposal from parliament to increase commitments and payments significantly, even in relation to the commission, is in the direction of an innovative approach, i think it is closer to the usual approach, at most the difference is in quantity once again rather than in quality. obviously, when i say this, i am fully aware that the council is also participating in its turn with excessive phlegm, with excessive slowness compared with the positions of the 2014 amending budgets, to make the composition less simple at this initial stage, without prejudice to the fact that it is precisely in the conciliation process that the approach proposed by parliament can only be shared. we will deal with all the parties together in an overall framework. what the council did in its proposal - even where it proposed reductions compared with the commission's proposal - was certainly not to proceed by linear cuts, but on the contrary, it made a very careful operation which was based on a fundamental premise and which i think is very much shared by all the institutions, namely the problem of late payments. this is why, in the logic of demanding reductions compared with the commission's proposal, we have focused more on heading 1a growth than on heading 1b cohesion. the reason was precisely that, the ball was in the court of the problem of payments, a problem which mainly concerns, mainly, in a much broader way, heading 1b and that is why, in this view of maximising the financial efficiency of the budget, cuts have been proposed in payments mainly on heading 1a as it is composed of many investment plans, many investment programmes, which in this first two-year period will result in fewer incidents of need for payment, certainly of commitment but less of payment, compared to what we already have in advance on heading 1b. and in doing so, once again, we have been careful to differentiate between these programmes, so much so that for example - unlike what i have heard in some speeches - it is true that for example for items such as plans such as erasmus plus and cosme there is no sign of any proposal for reductions by the council compared to the commission proposal, because precisely there, on the contrary, we have immediately seen a greater need for financial resources. i would like to conclude by reiterating my conviction that both the council's late adoption of a position on the 2014 amending budgets and parliament's quantitative approach - as we have said - to the 2015 budget, which we consider unsustainable, will be able to find in the conciliation procedure the overall assessment required here, which we share and which we are convinced will lead us to find a solution, also for this year, in the awareness of everyone that this is undoubtedly a year in which things are a little more difficult than usual and therefore requires an extraordinary commitment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr zanetti said in his first speech that our proposal was very difficult to defend, and the truth is that during the debate we had this afternoon, in which about sixty members of parliament took part, i think there were two or three who criticised parliament's proposal and the rest gave the council ample reason to support our position. i also said that it was an unrealistic proposal, and this is obviously a matter of position, but what seems unrealistic to us is that with 26 billion unpaid invoices on the table, the council is still cutting the commission's proposal by 2 billion. we have put all the tools on the table; that is why we are asking for this increase of 6 billion euros in payments, because it is the maximum that the laws allow us, because our objective in this negotiation for 2015 is not to solve because we do not have enough room for manoeuvre to solve it, but at least to alleviate this crisis of unpaid bills that we have on the table and that we have been dragging since 2010. it is clear that there are many differences between the council's position and that of the european parliament, but it is also true that tomorrow, as i said at the beginning, we start those 21 days of conciliation in which we can meet tomorrow, afternoon and evening, if that means that parliament and the council can reach an agreement. and we're totally open to that negotiation. but i would also like to warn the council of one thing: if the council wants to negotiate and is prepared to move from its initial position, parliament will respond to it quickly, but if the council is going to go to those negotiations as in previous years when its position was the initial and final position, it will certainly not find us there.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate, in which the council has been invited to speak, concerns democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary. the council is aware of the concerns expressed by certain groups in parliament on this subject. although it did not discuss the matter in detail, no proposal to invoke a procedure involving the council on this subject having been received. i want to be clear on the general themes of the issue: the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. if these values are part of the very raison d'être of the european union and the basis of our being together, all european institutions and member states are called upon to work to ensure that full respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law are always guaranteed. i know that this house fully shares that position. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental rights of the member states are enshrined in the constitutional traditions of the member states, in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and in the european convention on human rights, to which all the member states of the european union are parties and to which the european union itself will accede in due course. all member states must therefore ensure that their national law, whether primary or secondary, respects eu law. if there are any doubts or misgivings in this respect, it is the commission's responsibility to deal with them first and foremost, not the council's. i can assure you, however, that i shall pay close attention to what you have to say on this subject in the course of this debate. these are certainly useful considerations for the italian presidency, which is considering in these very days, on the basis of the commission's communication of 11 march, the possibility of holding a debate in the council on strengthening the rule of law in the union.
member of the commission. - madam president, as guardian of the treaties, the commission enforces the law of the european union, including the charter of fundamental rights, through infringement procedures, under the supervision of the court of justice of the union and, of course, in complementarity with the role of the national courts which work with the court of justice of the union to enforce the rights guaranteed by the charter in the member states. the commission's role is not limited to ensuring the protection of fundamental rights in the application of union law. the commission has also made a political commitment to protect the union's values. to this end, in march 2014 it adopted its communication on a new eu framework to strengthen the rule of law. the communication has the dual purpose of ensuring equal treatment between member states and promoting political dialogue in the event of a threat to our common values. in the event of a systemic threat to the rule of law in a member state, the commission plans to enter into a political dialogue with it. this dialogue must be based on loyal cooperation and must allow solutions to be found before the situation worsens. this process is in place to fill the gap that has existed until now between infringement procedures and the use of article 7 mechanisms. the framework for strengthening the rule of law will seek to ensure the proper functioning of all judicial and constitutional mechanisms and guarantees aimed at protecting democracy and fundamental rights in the member states. if these guarantees are jeopardised, the commission will not hesitate to take the necessary measures to ensure that union law and values are respected. the commission shall act within the limits of its powers as conferred by the treaties. on the other hand, it will not hesitate, if necessary, to launch infringement procedures for breaches of eu law and to initiate a political dialogue with the member state whose national mechanisms to ensure the rule of law are seriously compromised, whatever that member state may be. the european union framework for strengthening the rule of law applies to all member states in the same way. our debate today, madam president, is about the rule of law in hungary. in recent weeks, there has been a disagreement between the hungarian and norwegian authorities on the issue of granting subsidies to certain ngos. in the light of the information available at this stage, the subject matter of this dispute does not appear to fall within the scope of european union law. the management of union funds is not directly involved in this dispute. in addition, we have no evidence at this stage of a malfunctioning of the national mechanisms for the protection of the rule of law, nor of a malfunctioning of the hungarian judicial system. the ngos concerned have the possibility of appealing against the decisions taken. the commission has, however, used all its political weight to encourage the parties to settle this dispute and we are following this process closely. let me now return to the hungarian media legislation. in 2011, the commission services indicated that several provisions of this law were not in line with the provisions of the audiovisual media services directive, the treatment on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights. following exchanges initiated by the commission, hungary adopted amendments in 2011 and 2012 to correct the highlighted points. the amendments now ensure that hungarian law is in conformity with union law. the compatibility of the new hungarian legislation on the tax on advertising revenue generated in the media with union law is under examination. the impact of this tax on freedom of expression and its compatibility with the freedom of establishment guaranteed by the treaties remains to be assessed. we are looking into this situation and are continuing to dialogue with the hungarian authorities. the commission has also proposed that the hungarian authorities should be given the opportunity to present their observations on the application of the new legislation. if this were not the case, the commission would of course not hesitate to use its powers in infringement proceedings. i would also like to inform you of the outcome of the case concerning the independence of the hungarian national data protection authority. following the judgment of the court of 8 april 2014, the hungarian authorities acknowledged the breach of union law and fully compensated the national commissioner responsible for the authority, who did not indicate his intention to resume his duties. in these circumstances, the commission closed the infringement procedure. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tonight's debate is an opportunity to remind ourselves that what makes us feel european is our attachment to this community of values, principles and law enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, has the duty to ensure that they are respected, whether the member states are large or small, whether they are founding member states or not. this is the guarantee provided by the new framework of the european union to strengthen the rule of law.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the european parliament has already dealt with the hungarian issue on many occasions and in all of them the european people's party has expressed its support for fundamental rights and the rule of law. but we also believe that it is not acceptable to attack a member state for ideological reasons: the general prejudice against a country is as dangerous as the complaints that are going to be voiced here today. if europe is a democracy, it must also be a separation of powers. the guardian of the treaties, as has been said, is the commission, not parliament. we have political debates in parliament, not judgments. we do not judge, let alone countries; we make policy: our opinions are not neutral. we represent different political parties, and to try to turn our political opinions into legal judgments is to go beyond what parliament is supposed to do. hungary is a country that respects the rules and common values of the european union; that is why it is a member. it is also a country that is willing to negotiate and to work, as has just been demonstrated. the european people's party trusts and believes in hungary. there have been three elections in hungary this year, all won by fidesz, a member of the european people's party. to bring hungarian politics back into this house could be to continue the election campaign in strasbourg when it was lost in hungary.
madam president, last year this parliament raised serious doubts about the independence of the judiciary and the plurality of information in hungary. the party in government is shielding itself by amending the electoral law in the constitution i'm not surprised that gonzález pons likes it. it also exercises monopoly control over the media. a national project where people who don't identify with the regime are excluded; it doesn't matter if they are progressive, homosexual, or belong to ethnic minorities: for the ruling party, they are practically not hungarians. the growth of xenophobia, homophobia and racism is not accidental, it has a lot to do with a policy of the european union that gives wings to the extreme right by not taking into account the interests of all its parts. in the last elections, the voting for the far right was concentrated in the poorest areas, the areas that are not needed in this liberal project. less empty words, less rhetoric, only a europe which takes care of all its parts equally, which does not divide between centre and periphery is the vaccine against xenophobia and the resurgence of fascism in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr juncker, we all know that in recent years the more than strict economic policies of many countries, with the approval, support and demands of the troika, have been very hard on the citizens. at the same time, however, controls over the states, apart from financial controls, were invisible or were becoming weaker. what measures - not words - do you and your commission intend to take in this mandate, when everything should end, to name and actively control those states which violate the fundamental rights or the laws and directives of this parliament? our institutions, including the european commission, should be an example of democratic behaviour.
mr president, europe is at a crossroads today and the way out is in our hands. the decisions taken in recent years to get out of the crisis have not solved the problems and have added to the unjust suffering of millions of men and women. it would be unforgivable not to change; it would be an unacceptable mistake. you, mr juncker, you and your college of commissioners have today the historic responsibility of leading a game-changing project: a europe whose only agenda is not austerity but smart growth, which invests time and resources to tackle the fundamental challenges. we are talking about job creation because in countries like mine it has been a matter of despair for millions of people who have stopped believing in this project. we are talking about a sustainable europe, compatible with an industrial policy that supports europe's entrepreneurs. we are talking about a europe which does not allow for two speeds, inequalities or imbalances, which does not allow for the lack of protection for workers and those who have been unjustly excluded from the system. you will have the confidence of this house today - and i am not voting for you - but what your commission has to win is the confidence of the citizens, of those outside this parliament, and to do that, mr juncker, you must change policies and give the social europe back to the citizens.
mr president, mr juncker, europe is at a crossroads. you have to be idealistic, but pragmatic at the same time. it has to be austere, but it has to boost growth at the same time. it has to fight climate change, but re-industrialize at the same time. you have to open up to the world, but protect yourself at the same time. it has to compete with emerging economies, but defend the welfare state at the same time. europe must remain europe in a universe which is no longer european. you have committed yourself to parliament today to try to solve that equation and you will have a large majority. only the extremists of the right and the left, those who want to leave the european union within five years and those who come to europe to continue making national policy will be left out. in short, those who always want to stay out will be left out. you will be chairing a strong commission, a commission voted for by the citizens, a commission of the centre, a commission of moderation. and it is up to you to solve that equation: how to continue to comply with the stability pacts and how to grow at the same time. from spain, many members will support him, but we will ask him as representatives of the spanish people that his first objective be to create jobs, especially for young people; that he not forget the farmers, who are now paying for a foreign policy that they have not made as a result of the russian veto; that there be a common immigration policy, because irregular immigration is a common problem; and that there be energy interconnections to save citizens from expensive energy that might not come. you will have the help of miguel arias cañete, who is very familiar with spanish problems, who is a great defender of spain and who, if you ever have any doubts, you can ask. mr juncker, the alternatives are not to continue dreaming of europe or to wake up afraid. waking up scared is not the alternative to the european dream. the dream of europe is the only way, the only chance, the only way out. i come from a land called valencia and there we say to those who start a sailing: "good wind and new boat!" his fate is everyone's fate.
mr president, mr juncker, your college of commissioners is a provocation. perhaps because he already knew that the popular and socialists would put his chair before the interests of the citizens. the environment and energy will be the subject of discussions by those who in the past have favoured polluting industries and climate change, even in their private businesses. the economy will be the subject of the most ardent supporters of austerity, precarious employment and the commodification of the public sector. and as in spain, this agenda will be imposed against democracy itself, rewarding authoritarianism with portfolios of civil liberties. in debating your candidates i have seen your loyalty to the neoliberal framework they impose on us, accusing us of being outside the system - your system, mr juncker - for advocating alternatives for the people and for the needs of the people. for you, the economic is reduced to competitiveness, and the political to governance. their language is corrosive and deceptive. it cannot be the market that decides whether there will be jobs or peace or justice: it is the people who must decide. and that is why, because we defend the interests of the majority, we are going to vote 'no' to this commission.
mr president, mr juncker, there are some phrases that remain for history. the one mr barroso made yesterday was: 'we have come out of the crisis in the clear' - a phrase typical of the theatre of the absurd. her line for the story has been, "i can't change sex in the short term". i would recommend that you not joke about these things, and if not, ask your friend cañete about the consequences. but i will take up the joke to give you the impression that i see you as lax in your feminist reading, mr juncker. if you had read simone de beauvoir, you would know that gender is a cultural construct; if you had read judith butler, you would know that gender is a problem of performativity. i make a suggestion to you, mr juncker: next time you come to the european parliament dressed as a woman, convince mr cañete to do the same! it is the most radical thing you can do because, in view of your speech and in view of your document, to expect something from your commission is like waiting for godot.
mr president, on behalf of the ppe it is with great respect that i salute the new commission and i hope that all of us here in the plenary will afterwards vote for this commission. it has been a long road map since we started this. this is an elected commission; this is different and many of us believe that we will now have a political future and that we are going to respond to the citizens. this is the commission we want. we will support you in your initiatives, in all the priorities that we all share here. i know that some of you do not, but you will feel how this is going to change the future and the unity of this european union. this is starting today and i feel proud from the ppe family, from all my colleagues and also for those who are going to vote in favour of this new commission and this new era under jean-claude juncker.
in writing. i voted for the juncker commission in the context of a broad agreement between the epp, s&d and the liberals. this is a much more political commission with much more potential than the previous ones, and it would have been irresponsible for parliament to weaken it before it began its mandate, because to weaken the commission is to strengthen the role of the states. the college of commissioners has emerged strengthened from the hearings, where they have demonstrated their independence and worthiness for office in an exercise of democratic and transparent scrutiny. the great political pact between the epp, s&d and the liberals is very positive and hopeful, given that the european parliament has been set up in such a way that neither the epp nor the s&d can articulate alternative majorities in the house. this shows that the two major parties must be able to reach agreements on those matters of general interest to the eu. i am convinced that the path of dialogue and agreement will be very positive for the legislature that has just begun and which can lay the transversal foundations on which to build the european union of the future.
mr president, as every year, due to the complexity of the procedure, there are some technical adjustments to be put to the vote. concerning pilot project ‘cohesion policy and synergies with the research and development funds: “the stairways to excellence”’ in line 13 03 77 13, plenary amendment 9500 replaces amendment 1167 (ex-budg 3570). this is to delete a duplicated paragraph, leaving only the modification as adopted. on ‘financial support for encouraging the economic development of the turkish cypriot community’ in line 22 03 01, plenary amendment 9501 replaces amendment 1235 (ex-budg 3638). this is to correct omissions in a modified paragraph and to delete a duplicate paragraph.
in writing. - i voted categorically against this new commissioners' college of mr juncker because it is nothing more than a change of faces for the continuation of the same policy of the barroso commission. neoliberal policies that violate the most fundamental human rights, which have led to unemployment levels never seen in the history of the eu, to intolerable levels of poverty and social exclusion. this commission ensures that the structural reforms aimed at levelling down living and working conditions in the eu will be pursued. reforms that will continue to favour the big economic groups, at the expense of the dismantling and privatisation of the little public sector that still remains in the eu countries. for all these reasons i have voted against this juncker commission.
in writing. - podemos voted against the new juncker commission. we are voting against the substance and the form; we are voting against the way in which this european institution works, against the arrangements and compositions of the grand coalition and the council, against the irresponsible adherence to the guidelines of the troika, against the political and ideological framework which continues to impose austerity, generating unbearable amounts of social suffering in the countries of the south and undermining the very foundations of the european project. we are voting against a commission plagued by conflicts of interest, complicit in and promoter of austerity, complacent about failed, unfair and unworkable policies on employment, immigration or energy. we are voting against a programme which continues to impose the dangerous dogma of the stability pact and a programme which seeks to boost competitiveness by lowering wages. in the south of europe we know what is behind this commission: the imposition of cuts in public spending; the increase in indirect taxes; the loss of rights, greater inequality and precariousness of employment; insufficient wage income; the degradation and vulnerability of the working situation; and, as a consequence of all this, the general worsening of the living conditions of the working classes.
in writing. - podemos voted against the new juncker commission. we are voting against the substance and the form; we are voting against the way in which this european institution works, against the arrangements and compositions of the grand coalition and the council, against the irresponsible adherence to the guidelines of the troika, against the political and ideological framework which continues to impose austerity, generating unbearable amounts of social suffering in the countries of the south and undermining the very foundations of the european project. we are voting against a commission whose name is tainted by conflicts of interest, by its complicity and collusion with austerity policies, by its complacency with failed, unfair and unworkable policies on employment, immigration and energy. we are voting against a programme which continues to impose the dangerous dogma of the stability and growth pact, a programme which aims to boost competitiveness by lowering prices and, therefore, wages.
in writing. - we can vote against the new juncker commission. we are voting against the substance and the form; we are voting against the way in which this european institution works, against the arrangements and compositions of the grand coalition and the council, against the irresponsible adherence to the guidelines of the troika, against the political and ideological framework which continues to impose austerity, generating unbearable amounts of social suffering in the countries of the south and undermining the very foundations of the european project. we are voting against a commission whose name is tainted by conflicts of interest, by its complicity and collusion with austerity policies, by its complacency with failed, unfair and unworkable policies on employment, immigration and energy. we are voting against a programme which continues to impose the dangerous dogma of the stability and growth pact, a programme which aims to boost competitiveness by lowering prices and, therefore, wages.
in writing. - i voted categorically against this new commissioners' college of mr juncker because it is nothing more than a change of faces for the continuation of the same policy of the barroso commission. neoliberal policies that violate the most fundamental human rights, which have led to unemployment levels never seen in the history of the eu, to intolerable levels of poverty and social exclusion. this commission ensures that the structural reforms aimed at levelling down living and working conditions in the eu will be pursued. reforms that will continue to favour the big economic groups, at the expense of the dismantling and privatisation of the little public sector that still remains in the eu countries. for all these reasons i have voted against this juncker commission.
in writing. - i voted against the new commission, against the substance and the form; i voted against the way this european institution is functioning, against the arrangements and compositions of the grand coalition and the council, against the irresponsible adherence to the guidelines of the troika, against the political and ideological framework which continues to impose austerity, generating unbearable amounts of social suffering in the countries of the south and undermining the very foundations of the european project. according to eurostat data, the poverty rate in our country has increased from 24.5% in 2008 to 28.2% in 2012, and the number of working poor has gone from 10.1% in 2006 to 12.3% in 2012. the new commission represents the continuation of economic policies which have brought our country to a state of social emergency such as we have not known for decades. i have voted against this new commission and i reiterate my commitment to combating the dangerous ideological and political drift of a union which should be dedicated to defending and guaranteeing the rights of its citizens, and not to curtailing them to serve the interests of a few who have been elected by no one and who are steadily leading us towards disaster.
in writing. - i am voting against the election of this commission, where parity is far from being achieved and where there are commissioners like cañete and hill who until recently had interests with private groups which in my view are morally incompatible with the defence of the public interests of european citizens. neither the fight against austerity, nor the urgent need to restore lost social justice to europeans, nor the determined commitment to a shift from an energy and productive model to one of sustainability, are among the priorities of this commission, and therefore we do not share its project and cannot vote for it.
in writing. - i voted against mr juncker's college of commissioners because, judging by the profiles of the individuals and the hearings, it will mean continuation and hardening of the neoliberal policies which violate human rights and have generated the highest levels of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion in the eu. structural reforms to lower living and working conditions will continue. it will continue with agricultural and food policies that are harmful to the peasantry, that will provide unsafe food, and that encourage environmentally aggressive production methods. it will continue to favour the large economic groups, at the expense of the dismantling and privatisation of the public sector. it will continue to look the other way with its repression of the trade union movement and of social movements which are fighting to maintain social rights and gains. nor will it promote the directives needed to advance equal rights for women and the fight against gender-based violence. a commission which also shows no respect for the right to decide of the peoples who make up the multinational reality of some states. president juncker has not made any pronouncement on the spanish government's decision to prevent catalonia from calling a referendum.
in writing. - today i abstained in the vote on this new commission and mr juncker for the following reasons: 1. i was not convinced by some commissioner candidates in the hearings; in particular i was not convinced by the commissioner candidates of spain, france and the uk; 2. this european commission seems to be the same as the previous one of mr barroso, and it will submit to the council and its member states; 3. this european commission seems to be the secretary of the council. this is not what we need. we need a real european and federalist government of europe, clearly committed to democratic principles and to respecting the will of the people.
in writing. - i voted categorically against this new commissioners' college of mr juncker because it is nothing more than a change of faces for the continuation of the same policy of the barroso commission. neoliberal policies that violate the most fundamental human rights, which have led to unemployment levels never seen in the history of the eu, to intolerable levels of poverty and social exclusion. this commission ensures that the structural reforms aimed at levelling down living and working conditions in the eu will be pursued. reforms that will continue to favour the big economic groups, at the expense of the dismantling and privatisation of the little public sector that still remains in the eu countries. for all these reasons i have voted against this juncker commission.
in writing. - draft amending budget 2/2014 intends to enter in the 2014 budget a surplus of the 2013 budget, amounting to eur 1005 million of positive differences resulting from the implementation of the 2013 budget: eur 276 million from under-implementation and eur 42 million from negative variations. as i agree with the principle of transferring surpluses from one year to the next, i have voted in favour.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the amendment to paragraph 46 of the european parliament's resolution of 22 october 2014 on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii, as we consider that no cap or any other budget appropriation should be used to finance bullfighting activities involving the killing of the bull. such funding is also in breach of the european convention for the protection of animals kept for farming purposes (council directive 98/58/ec).
in writing. - we voted in favour of the amendment to paragraph 46 of the european parliament's resolution of 22 october 2014 on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii, as we consider that no cap or any other budget appropriation should be used to finance bullfighting activities involving the killing of the bull. such funding is also in breach of the european convention for the protection of animals kept for farming purposes (council directive 98/58/ec).
in writing. - we voted in favour of the amendment to paragraph 46 of the european parliament's resolution of 22 october 2014 on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii, as we consider that no cap or any other budget appropriation should be used to finance bullfighting activities involving the killing of the bull. such funding is also in breach of the european convention for the protection of animals kept for farming purposes (council directive 98/58/ec).
in writing. - draft amending budget 2/2014 intends to enter in the 2014 budget a surplus of the 2013 budget, amounting to eur 1005 million of positive differences resulting from the implementation of the 2013 budget: eur 276 million from under-implementation and eur 42 million from negative variations. as i agree with the principle of transferring surpluses from one year to the next, i have voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to demand that the council urgently resolve the alarming payment crisis which already amounts to over 26 000 million euro in unpaid invoices. the eu must be a good payer and honour its commitments. public and private institutions, ngos, smes, students, researchers and universities, which have participated in european programmes and are still waiting for the funding committed by the eu, depend on it. the eu must pay what it owes. we cannot delay the situation of the defaults any longer.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the amendment to paragraph 46 of the european parliament's resolution of 22 october 2014 on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii, as we consider that no cap or any other budget appropriation should be used to finance bullfighting activities involving the killing of the bull. such funding is also in breach of the european convention for the protection of animals kept for farming purposes (council directive 98/58/ec).
in writing. - draft amending budget 2/2014 intends to enter in the 2014 budget a surplus of the 2013 budget, amounting to eur 1005 million of positive differences resulting from the implementation of the 2013 budget: eur 276 million from under-implementation and eur 42 million from negative variations. as i agree with the principle of transferring surpluses from one year to the next, i have voted in favour.
in writing. - draft amending budget 2/2014 intends to enter in the 2014 budget a surplus of the 2013 budget, amounting to eur 1005 million of positive differences resulting from the implementation of the 2013 budget: eur 276 million from under-implementation and eur 42 million from negative variations. as i agree with the principle of transferring surpluses from one year to the next, i have voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted against the eu budget for 2015 because it is once again the budget of austerity and poverty. these are budgets which have been made without regard for the reality of the social emergency which the working classes are experiencing in all the eu countries. this budget follows the neoliberal logic of memoranda, cuts, privatisation of the public sector and is not a budget for the creation of jobs and decent living conditions for eu citizens.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament abstained because we expressed our complete disagreement with the budget defined by the european commission in its draft. the council has also proposed additional cuts and has failed to take account of basic agreements in the preparation of the multiannual budget, insisting on its obsession with austerity which puts at risk the basic functioning of important programmes and which continues to bet on abandoning the public initiative to rescue european society. the european parliament's position is merely to restore the level of spending, we note that it does not seek to go beyond accepting its freezing and loss of weight in the european economy, that its main concern is delays and difficulties in paying outstanding invoices, and that it has not had the audacity to put forward a more ambitious budget.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament abstained because we expressed our complete disagreement with the budget defined by the european commission in its draft. the council has also proposed additional cuts and has failed to take account of basic agreements in the preparation of the multiannual budget, insisting on its obsession with austerity which puts at risk the basic functioning of important programmes and which continues to bet on abandoning the public initiative to rescue european society. the european parliament's position is merely to restore the level of spending, we note that it does not seek to go beyond accepting its freezing and loss of weight in the european economy, that its main concern is delays and difficulties in paying outstanding invoices, and that it has not had the audacity to put forward a more ambitious budget.
in writing. - i voted against the eu budget for 2015 because it is once again the budget of austerity and poverty. these are budgets which have been made without regard for the reality of the social emergency which the working classes are experiencing in all the eu countries. this budget follows the neoliberal logic of memoranda, cuts, privatisation of the public sector and is not a budget for the creation of jobs and decent living conditions for eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft budget to restore the commission's draft budget in most of the areas cut by the council, rejecting the council's proposal to cut eur 522 million in commitments and eur 2 100 million in payments. the austerity policies have been a failure, they have brought nothing but suffering and not only have they not gotten us out of the crisis, but they are bringing us to the brink of a third recession. the current situation calls for a change in the direction of economic policy and the european budget must serve to activate public investment by complementing national budgets and boosting growth and employment. the council's draft budget does not reflect the needs and priorities of the union. i have therefore supported this resolution which calls for increases in key budget lines for growth, competitiveness and employment such as horizon 2020, erasmus+ or cosme, and is committed to a budget that tackles inequalities and attends to our citizens who suffer the most, increasing the fund for european aid to the most deprived, and a budget that does not cut into neighbourhood policy, development cooperation and humanitarian aid.
in writing. - i voted against the eu budget for 2015 because it is once again the budget of austerity and poverty. these are budgets which have been made without regard for the reality of the social emergency which the working classes are experiencing in all the eu countries. this budget follows the neoliberal logic of memoranda, cuts, privatisation of the public sector and is not a budget for the creation of jobs and decent living conditions for eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted against the eu budget for 2015 because it is once again the budget of austerity and poverty. these are budgets which have been made without regard for the reality of the social emergency which the working classes are experiencing in all the eu countries. this budget follows the neoliberal logic of memoranda, cuts, privatisation of the public sector and is not a budget for the creation of jobs and decent living conditions for eu citizens.
in writing. - the general eu budget approved by parliament corrects the cuts imposed by the council on the commission's draft, the only way to meet the real payment needs envisaged and which is going in the right direction. the eu's payments crisis is alarming in many ways, threatening to prevent the smooth running of programmes funded by european funds, from erasmus to the cohesion funds, with outstanding bills amounting to €26 billion in 2014, adding to the difficulties and uncertainties in tackling the crisis. in the fisheries sector, the amendment adopted to increase the budget of the european fisheries control agency is worth considering, although we regret that the fisheries policy has not been spared the general cut. europe needs a turnaround in its economic policy to put a stop to the austerity measures that are leading the eu into its third recession. the increase in funding for growth and jobs must not be reversed and must be complemented by the investment plan announced by the new commission president, jean claude juncker. the council must not prevent the crisis from being resolved.
in writing. - the eu does not provide any specific support for bullfighting, but supports 'agricultural activity'. that is, the cultivation of agricultural products and the rearing and maintenance of dairy or meat animals, as well as the maintenance of land in good agricultural and environmental conditions. amendment no 232 concerns budget line 05 03 0101, which covers direct payments from the cap. for the reasons already set out, we consider that this amendment lacks technical support, nor could its adoption have any direct consequence on the abolition of bullfighting.
in writing. - i voted against the eu budget for 2015 because it is once again the budget of austerity and poverty. these are budgets which have been made without regard for the reality of the social emergency which the working classes are experiencing in all the eu countries. this budget follows the neoliberal logic of the mandatory, the cuts, the privatizations of the public sector and is still not a budget for the creation of jobs and decent living conditions for the citizens of the eu.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament abstained because we expressed our complete disagreement with the budget defined by the european commission in its draft. the council has also proposed additional cuts and has failed to take account of basic agreements in the preparation of the multiannual budget, insisting on its obsession with austerity which puts at risk the basic functioning of important programmes and which continues to bet on abandoning the public initiative to rescue european society. the european parliament's position is only to restore the level of spending, but we note that it does not go beyond accepting its freezing and loss of weight in the european economy, that its main concern is delays and difficulties in paying outstanding invoices, and that it has not had the audacity to propose a more ambitious budget.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today on a budget for the eu which has been heavily influenced by the strategy of member state governments based on very aggressive fiscal consolidation policies which have brought more suffering to families and which threaten to lead the eu into a third economic recession in five years. the european parliament has tried to adapt the community budget to the need to implement policies for growth and employment, by activating demand through the public sector with the aim of becoming a benchmark in the welfare society once again. we want to change the trend of the policies that are being implemented from the council in order to be able to respond in the most efficient way to the urgent needs that the citizens of the continent have today.
in writing. - i voted against the eu budget for 2015 because it is once again the budget of austerity and poverty. these are budgets which have been made without regard for the reality of the social emergency which the working classes are experiencing in all the eu countries. this budget follows the neoliberal logic of the mandatory, the cuts, the privatizations of the public sector and is still not a budget for the creation of jobs and decent living conditions for the citizens of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft budget to restore the commission's draft budget in most of the areas cut by the council, rejecting the council's proposal to cut eur 522 million in commitments and eur 2 100 million in payments. the austerity policies have been a failure, they have brought nothing but suffering and not only have they not gotten us out of the crisis, but they are bringing us to the brink of a third recession. the current situation calls for a change in the direction of economic policy and the european budget must serve to activate public investment by complementing national budgets and boosting growth and employment. the council's draft budget does not reflect the needs and priorities of the union. i have therefore supported this resolution which calls for increases in key budget lines for growth, competitiveness and employment such as horizon 2020, erasmus+ or cosme, and is committed to a budget that tackles inequalities and attends to our citizens who suffer the most, increasing the fund for european aid to the most deprived, and a budget that does not cut into neighbourhood policy, development cooperation and humanitarian aid.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament abstained because we expressed our complete disagreement with the budget defined by the european commission in its draft. the council has also proposed additional cuts and has failed to take account of basic agreements in the preparation of the multiannual budget, insisting on its obsession with austerity which puts at risk the basic functioning of important programmes and which continues to bet on abandoning the public initiative to rescue european society. the european parliament's position is only to restore the level of spending, but we note that it does not go beyond accepting its freezing and loss of weight in the european economy, that its main concern is delays and difficulties in paying outstanding invoices, and that it has not had the audacity to propose a more ambitious budget.
in writing. - i voted against the eu budget for 2015 because it is once again the budget of austerity and poverty. these are budgets which have been made without regard for the reality of the social emergency which the working classes are experiencing in all the eu countries. this budget follows the neoliberal logic of the mandatory, the cuts, the privatizations of the public sector and is still not a budget for the creation of jobs and decent living conditions for the citizens of the eu. these budgets are still the instrument for further deterioration of public services, as they are the support for implementing laws that enshrine the transfer of public money, which should be used in the public sector, to private companies to which the management of the public sector will be handed over.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this budget but i want to stress that the budget has to be spent in order to provide answers to the priorities agreed: to fully support the eu’s recovery, to strengthen the single market and to follow the eu guidelines to achieve the 2020 strategy. in my view, giving public subsidies to raise bulls to be sent to bullfights is not a priority that the eu should support or promote, as it goes against my principal values of respecting the well-being of animals. i also voted in favour of the amendment to paragraph 86 which ‘stresses that the parliament and the council, in order to create long term savings in the union budget, must address the need for a roadmap to a single seat, as stated by the parliament in several previous resolutions;’. i strongly support a single seat for this house in order to save waste and money, and also in order to be more environmentally-friendly in our work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's proposal because of its demand for a significant increase in several essential items which the council wants to cut.
in writing. - i voted against the eu budget for 2015 because it is once again the budget of austerity and poverty. these are budgets which have been made without regard for the reality of the social emergency which the working classes are experiencing in all the eu countries. this budget follows the neoliberal logic of the mandatory, the cuts, the privatizations of the public sector and is still not a budget for the creation of jobs and decent living conditions for the citizens of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation so that the republic of croatia can participate fully as a member of the european union in the eu-korea free trade agreement, signed in 2009.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is just one more way in which strong economies enter new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers from different geographical areas in competition. although this report is purely technical, as it is a component of the process of ratification of the additional protocol of accession of croatia to the eu, i have not voted in favour of it for the reasons set out above.
in writing. - we abstained because, despite being against the fta, we consider it consistent that croatia as an eu member state should be in line with the rest of the eu states. we do not support the eu-korea free trade agreement approved in july 2011. the agreement has major negative consequences for the european economy and employment, particularly in relation to the automobile industry and the potential for industrialization in europe. furthermore, the treaty does not consider the environmental impact of exchanging goods from the other side of the planet. korean farmers' and trade union organizations also strongly rejected the treaty. however, the european parliament legislative resolution of 22 october 2014 on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union, merely addresses the accession of croatia, as a new member state of the union, to that agreement.
in writing. - we abstained because, despite being against the fta, we consider it consistent that croatia as an eu member state should be in line with the rest of the eu states. we do not support the eu-korea free trade agreement approved in july 2011. the agreement has major negative consequences for the european economy and employment, particularly in relation to the automobile industry and the potential for industrialization in europe. furthermore, the treaty does not consider the environmental impact of exchanging goods from the other side of the planet. korean farmers' and trade union organizations also strongly rejected the treaty. however, the european parliament legislative resolution of 22 october 2014 on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union, merely addresses the accession of croatia, as a new member state of the union, to that agreement.
in writing. - we abstained because, despite being against the fta, we consider it consistent that croatia as an eu member state should be in line with the rest of the eu states. we do not support the eu-korea free trade agreement approved in july 2011. the agreement has major negative consequences for the european economy and employment, particularly in relation to the automobile industry and the potential for industrialization in europe. furthermore, the treaty does not consider the environmental impact of exchanging goods from the other side of the planet. korean farmers' and trade union organizations also strongly rejected the treaty. however, the european parliament legislative resolution of 22 october 2014 on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union, merely addresses the accession of croatia, as a new member state of the union, to that agreement.
in writing. - since croatia's accession to the eu in july 2013, the eu-korea free trade agreement (dating from 2009) has been provisionally applied. in march 2014, the eu concluded the signing of the additional protocol to the eu-korea free trade agreement to take account of the accession of croatia and croatia's continued full participation in the eu-korea agreement. the adoption by parliament of this council decision is a mandatory step in completing the ratification process of the additional protocol. i have therefore voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is just one more way in which strong economies enter new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers from different geographical areas in competition. although this report is purely technical, as it is a component of the process of ratification of the additional protocol of accession of croatia to the eu, i have not voted in favour of it for the reasons set out above.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation so that the republic of croatia can participate fully as a member of the european union in the eu-korea free trade agreement, signed in 2009.
in writing. - i abstained because, although i am against the fta, i think it is consistent for croatia as an eu member state to harmonize with the rest of the eu states. we do not support the eu-korea free trade agreement approved in july 2011. the agreement has major negative consequences for the european economy and employment, particularly in relation to the automobile industry and the potential for industrialization in europe. furthermore, the treaty does not consider the environmental impact of exchanging goods from the other side of the planet. korean farmers' and trade union organizations also strongly rejected the treaty. however, the european parliament legislative resolution of 22 october 2014 on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union, merely addresses the accession of croatia, as a new member state of the union, to that agreement.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is just another way for strong economies to penetrate new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers from different geographical areas in competition and subjecting the peasantry on both sides to unfair competition from industrial agriculture and agro-export businesses. the circulation of a huge amount of goods, including food that we eat every day and that we might find nearby, leads to a very large increase in greenhouse gas emissions, which further aggravates the climate crisis. although this report is purely technical, as it is a component of the process of ratification of the additional protocol of accession of croatia to the eu, i have not voted in favour of it for the reasons set out above.
in writing. - any agreement to facilitate business exchange is positive for european companies, and in a context of economic crisis still more, since exports are very important to maintain the growth of the european economy. moreover, the internal market is one of the best treasures of the european union. it has brought economic growth, prosperity and better life quality to the countries that are in it, so it is a great pleasure to welcome croatia in it. that is why i have supported this protocol, because it contributes to safeguarding the integrity of the union’s internal market and facilitates exports in asia.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is just one more way in which strong economies enter new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers from different geographical areas in competition. although this report is purely technical, as it is a component of the process of ratification of the additional protocol of accession of croatia to the eu, i have not voted in favour of it for the reasons set out above.
in writing. - europe cannot continue on the path of austerity. the policies of austerity and internal devaluation have only caused an increase in unemployment, especially among young people, to unacceptable levels, labour poverty, precariousness and increased inequality. europe needs to revive an investment cycle that encourages job creation and recovers domestic demand to avoid falling into a third recession. it is urgent to implement the investment plan announced by the president of the commission with additional funds and to urge the countries with room for manoeuvre to implement expansionary policies drawing on the union as a whole. and deficit control objectives must be subordinated to the maintenance and promotion of social cohesion, which has been sacrificed during these years of austerity. we must also help member states to make better use of european funds, while avoiding that the link between them and the principles of good governance can cause damage to the citizens of countries in difficulty. we must build a social pillar alongside economic and monetary union to protect the european social model.
in writing. - this report analyses the implementation of the european semester in the last semester and makes recommendations for the next, which will start once the european commission publishes its annual growth survey in november. the report is full of rhetoric about socially balanced and sustainable growth, calls for job creation and the fight against youth unemployment to make people believe that we are on the path to the new cycle. but the reality is that the european semester confirms the austerity policies which have destroyed millions of jobs and gives a free hand to continue down the same path. that is why i have obviously voted against.
in writing. - the current european economic context calls for greater coordination of macroeconomic and budgetary policies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the internal market must also be strengthened, in particular the free movement of services; making this a reality and fully operational would be a stimulus for the economy. while signs of recovery have been shown, further stimulus is needed to achieve stabilisation in the medium term. in this context, the important role of the eu budget in stimulating sustainable growth, boosting job creation and reducing macroeconomic imbalances in the eu should be underlined. the youth guarantee and the eu youth employment initiative should be promoted as useful means to combat the high rate of youth unemployment. a sound budgetary policy, a real free movement of services that protects the consumer and benefits smes, and the implementation of programmes to combat unemployment are key stimuli for moving towards a stronger economic and monetary policy.
in writing. - it is not the time to regret the time lost under the ideological paradigm of extreme austerity, but to face the future in a different way. the amendments tabled by our group to this report make it possible to move forward with another discourse on europe. the new european commission must be involved in the europeanisation of economic policy in the euro area, and in europe's ability to implement country-specific recommendations and to redirect tensions between france, italy and germany. it is as worrying when a country does not comply with the rules we have set ourselves as when it has a current account surplus of more than 7% or 8% of gdp and the european commission does nothing. we need countries with room for manoeuvre to make expansionary policies. we also welcome the removal of the macro-conditionality requirement for the structural and cohesion funds, which was a double penalty for many regions in europe. this european semester must be the step from the vision of the 'euro pattern' we have suffered in recent years to a genuine economic union and we believe that the new commission must lead it with a clear commitment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents an important step in the face of the signs of a slowdown in the eu economies, which, if they persist, could lead to a new recession. we must deepen the process of european integration and support policies to improve competitiveness and job creation, with an emphasis on the youngest. the eu must invest in r & d & i, modern infrastructure, sustainable energy, education and social inclusion and facilitate access to finance for smes. the investment of eur 300 billion pledged by the president-elect of the commission is therefore an appropriate measure to help the european economy grow. states should pursue structural reforms with the aim of improving employment and economic growth. it is necessary to pursue a balanced long-term strategy for growth- and investment-friendly fiscal consolidation, while always seeking the sustainability and equity of social security systems. concern for social obligations, the fight against the increase in poverty and social exclusion must be the focus of the eu's economic policy.
in writing. - in general, the rapporteur's motion for a resolution is too focused on the need to maintain the economic policies of recent years which have brought us to a situation unprecedented in europe in terms of inequality, poverty, exclusion, unemployment - especially among young people - and which are on the way to leaving us on the verge of a third consecutive recession. however, the socialist contributions have made it possible to highlight important aspects of our diagnosis of the european semester, especially the essential change of course that the community authorities must make in order to give a definitive boost to economic growth and job creation and to urgently restore the well-being of europeans: stimulate demand and investment in countries with capacity as a precondition for continuing with austerity; use flexibility in the processes of fiscal consolidation; promote automatic stabilizers; ensure the integration of social indicators and objectives in the european semester recommendations. finally, despite our vote against the wording which stressed the macroeconomic conditionality for access to the structural and cohesion funds, we have decided to vote in favour of the whole of it, weighing up the positive aspects.
in writing. - this report analyses the implementation of the european semester in the last semester and makes recommendations for the next, which will start once the european commission publishes its annual growth survey in november. the report is full of rhetoric about socially balanced and sustainable growth, calls for job creation and the fight against youth unemployment to make people believe that we are on the path to the new cycle. but the reality is that the european semester confirms the austerity policies which have destroyed millions of jobs and gives a free hand to continue down the same path. that is why i have obviously voted against.
in writing. - with post-war levels of poverty, especially on europe's periphery; unemployment levels unprecedented, especially among young people; social inequalities that exceed those of the 'belle époque'; a colossal lack of domestic demand compensated by exports that make europe dependent on what is happening in the world; a growing economic and social divergence between the member states; a progressive abandonment of the fight against climate change; a public debt that has skyrocketed in countries undergoing suicidal austerity; unparalleled tax evasion and genuine fiscal dumping between countries to attract capital; a declining intra-european trade and credit and a high risk of deflation; with all these data in view, the real europe is far from being reflected in the de baker report and therefore its proposals, even relatively critical, are not only symptomatic but also demand a strong palette of measures to deal with and resolve its immediate and wrong consequences, and above all, the crisis requires a management that does not address its causes and its consequences.
in writing. - this report analyses the implementation of the european semester in the last semester and makes recommendations for the next, which will start once the european commission publishes its annual growth survey in november. the report is full of rhetoric about socially balanced and sustainable growth, calls for job creation and the fight against youth unemployment to make people believe that we are on the path to the new cycle. but the reality is that the european semester confirms the austerity policies which have destroyed millions of jobs and gives a free hand to continue down the same path. that is why i have obviously voted against.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the european semester report, as it is a new step forward towards efficiently coordinating the economic policies of the euro zone member states. the origins of our current crisis are partly to be found in the great economic divergence of the first decade of the 21st century. the european commission has the duty to continue pushing for structural reforms that will enhance growth in the medium term.
in writing. - this report analyses the implementation of the european semester in the last semester and makes recommendations for the next, which will start once the european commission publishes its annual growth survey in november. the report is full of rhetoric about socially balanced and sustainable growth, calls for job creation and the fight against youth unemployment to make people believe that we are on the path to the new cycle. but the reality is that the european semester confirms the austerity policies which have destroyed millions of jobs and gives a free hand to continue down the same path. that is why i have obviously voted against.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to express my displeasure at the decision of this house to prevent a resolution on such a sensitive matter. it is irresponsible not to pay due attention to what is happening in kobane. since 21 september, kobane has been under a terrible siege by the forces of the islamic state. a life and death struggle against barbarism, which is the same as saying against intolerance, against each and every human right. for thirty days of terror, the kurdish people's protection units have defended kobane. they have fought bravely, without any outside help, without any support from turkey, except for sporadic bombing by the coalition. it is true that since last monday turkey has made a change in policy, a change which could prove decisive in the settlement of the siege of kobane, a change which consists in giving the iraqi kurdistan security forces free rein and allowing the coalition planes to take off from their bases. however, we cannot forget that the turkish policy during these four weeks has cost a very high price in human lives and that the final positive solution to the harassment of the city is still far from being achieved. but it would not be fair if i only criticized turkey. we are also here in the european parliament and we must admit that we have once again failed to live up to the expectations of the situation. we must therefore react and take urgent action: first, the european union must exert greater diplomatic pressure on ankara to reconsider its policies in relation to northern syria; second, turkey must impede the illegal oil trade network of the islamic state across its border; third, turkey must also return to peace talks with the kurdish people; and fourth, the european union must push for a stronger and more unified response to the threat of the islamic state, and support the coalition more forcefully. i shall not tire of calling for a genuine common foreign and security policy which will enable us to anticipate and be prepared. we can't afford the "as usual, we're late" and then there is the objective of alleviating the humanitarian situation.
mr president, i was thinking that, for us, kobane has been described here as a symbol, the symbol of a whole resistance, as the last line that separates us from the terror of the islamic state, a strip of land that is at the same time a border for us and, however, surely, for the people of kobane this resistance has been nothing more than the defense of their lives, of their families, simply the resistance to be able to survive. and in this debate we have spoken about turkey, also about the united states; with turkey, by the way, i think we have to be aware that we need an intelligent demand, because we need turkey. but i am much more interested in talking about us, about the european union, as minister della vedova has done. it is true that we have acted too late and too lukewarmly, and it is true that there are still many member states which are reluctant to take up this task and we need them. that we need toughness and we need action, and we need humanitarian aid. that is essential and urgent at this time, not only for the people who are suffering, but also for the countries bordering on them that are making a huge effort to care for the refugees, who are counted in staggering numbers. we would not be able to care for that number of refugees on our own. so kobane is a symbol, but unfortunately the complexity of the problem we face in that region is much greater. the islamic state controls large areas, at this moment, of syria and northern iraq, and its threat is growing and very violent. terror spreads, and the death of innocents, too. human rights violations are massive, in syria, in iraq, at the hands of virtually all the contending parties. it's very complex. so complexity requires our action, our defence of the future, which is what we are playing for, and for that we need our diplomacy, our politics, our resources and our intelligence.
mr president, this parliament is very prone to indignation and scandal, but when it comes to looking for the causes, we always look the other way. the situation in kobane is desperate: hundreds of people have been killed and more than 250,000 have fled. but it's not a catastrophe, it's not an accident. and i am sorry to say that turkey is largely to blame for the origin and emergence of the terrorist-integralist problem, for its detestable role as a regional 'bully' by interfering and destabilising syria, training and arming the so-called rebels and blocking any peace initiative. now we celebrate that you're allowing kurdish guerrillas in. i can't celebrate a murderer stopping killing just because he decides to. turkey has been watching with criminal passivity as the isis criminals did the dirty work against their enemies. turkey is a nato country and its foreign policy, which sometimes borders on international crime, has serious implications for all of us here and for the countries in the region. added to this is the disastrous western strategy: decades of policies based on the destruction of secular national identities, especially in iraq and syria. it's time to stop fueling the fire with fire. the european union must put pressure on turkey and the gulf countries to stop financing terrorist groups and destabilising the region, to help rebuild the political unity of iraq, to provide a solution to syria within the framework of international law and the united nations - that is to say, to do something serious and with a future, rather than watching how the brave kurdish guerrillas and guerrillas are turning kobane into the stalingrad of the islamic state. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, once again we have to talk in this house about isil, which is a serious threat. fortunately, in kobane, their forces are no longer winning, thanks in particular to the bombing campaign of the international coalition and the struggle of the kurds. what is happening in kobane is important, but we must not forget other areas of conflict: the iraqi region, for example ambar, where isis is unfortunately still very active and is moving closer and closer to baghdad. without prejudice to military action in iraq, in which the reconstruction of the iraqi army seems to me crucial, we also need political solutions. the is is closely linked - as i think the italian presidency has already pointed out - to the sunni discontent in iraq. we therefore need the new government to pursue an inclusive policy and to regain the confidence of the sunnis and also the kurds. the situation in syria is very complex, as has been said here. in addition to the need to counter is, we must continue to seek a political transition. we must help the moderate forces which, unfortunately, have lost virtually all prominence in recent times. and we must continue to support the efforts of the un special envoy to bring about this political transition. the actors in syria must not be exclusively assad and isis. to defeat isis and safeguard the territorial integrity of syria and iraq, we need the cooperation of all the states in the region and, of course, turkey and iran. no state in the region should benefit from the fact that is can prevail and found a new afghanistan on former iraqi or syrian territory, or a mixture of both. we, the european union and the member states, must continue to try to help find solutions for the region, also in close coordination with the united states. the is, in addition to its destabilising shortcomings throughout the region, can also be a global threat in which, for the most part, european fighters are present. winter is coming, the humanitarian crisis is getting worse, and that is why we must also put special emphasis on it and help some populations who need us.
mr. president, mrs. ashton is an ectoplasm, so it's difficult to talk about her. she's not here, she's not expecting you. let's move on. it is surprising that our european external action service is surprised, first, about the existence of the army of daesh. it's impossible to improvise an army! even the most experienced sergeant in the least competent army in the world will tell you that managing 4,000-5,000 fighters for 1,000 kilometers requires enormous logistics. where was our foreign policy, our foreign policy services, that they didn't know? where was our european external action service that didn't know what maliki's sectarian regime means? where was this service, that didn't know what was happening in the province of al-anbar, where the advance of isis occurred? where was the european external action service when the attack on fallujah, the fallujah insurrection, which was the first warning of isil, took place in january? second question: kobane, where are you? i am shocked by the scandal, because it is only known because we have it before our eyes on television. but kobane, or ain al-arab, as the arabs call it, is the consequence of all the conflict that exists in the arc that goes from aleppo, through deir ez-zor, to baghdad, to the vicinity of baghdad. so let's stop thinking that with kobane we are making a symbol, because i want to talk about the category, and the category i want to refer to. this parliament, on 18 september this year, issued a resolution demanding that there be a halt in the logistical support to daesh. i am astonished when the council of europe on 20 october says that they are going to take immediate action. what are we talking about? while we are talking, daesh is acting; and i don't want any more condemnations, approvals, solidarity or music: daesh is faced with deeds and not words. and, of course, my most absolute rebuke to the ectoplasmic entity that is mrs. ashton, who is neither here nor has ever expected her.
mr president, as we speak, kobane is resisting with the few means at its disposal. only the united response of the kurdish forces has so far prevented another massacre like the one recorded this past summer. and it is the kurdish people who must have the means to resist and win, both in the face of the threat of the islamic state and in the face of the attitude of the states occupying their territory. the responsibility of the international community, including the european union, is clear. but the powers, nato, are not acting to protect the kurdish people but to respond to a situation out of control, another one, caused by their policies in the middle east and thus protect their own economic and geo-strategic interests. ladies and gentlemen, the rights and future of the kurdish people are at stake, rights which have been trampled on for decades in the face of international and european passivity or complicity. and those rights are what this is about, after all.
mr president, the fight for control of kobane by daesh is of twofold importance: strategic, in terms of controlling the illegal supply routes, and political, in terms of provoking turkey on syrian territory as well. the shadow of the pkk prevents turkish analysts say the necessary response from a country that has one of the most powerful armies on earth. to allow the peshmerga to pass, in my opinion, is insufficient. meanwhile, abdullah ocalan, the leader of the pkk, remains in permanent prison, a life sentence, on the island of imrali in the sea of marmara. that's all i'm saying. meanwhile, daesh has already killed 700 people and caused a mass displacement of the kurdish majority population in ain al-arab. in my view, the fighting peshmerga and those who are about to arrive need rapid and effective military aid. by air, coalition strikes are insufficient and daesh continues its indiscriminate attacks on the civilian population. what's going on in iraq and syria? decapitations, sexual slavery, recruitment of children, kidnappings, massacres of religious minorities - over 200,000 dead according to the united nations - 6.4 million internally displaced people in syria, 5.2 million people in iraq and 11 million syrians in need of immediate humanitarian aid as winter approaches. the european union has provided eur 3 billion in aid to syria and iraq, but the situation is still unchecked. more donors and more military determination on the part of the coalition are needed. the fundamentalist virus of the so-called caliphate is spreading and must be neutralized, must be stopped before it invades countries with terror here and there. there they exterminate, but here they will end up making a reality of what is no longer a threat but a fact: the european union's intelligence services no longer doubt that they will attack here. all that remains to be known is when and how, what day and what country. we must react, mr president.
i would ask the speakers - this is how the interpreters are translating it for me - to speak more slowly, because sometimes it is very difficult to follow them.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, once again we are talking about the small instead of the big. we are not talking about hong kong here: we are talking about the democratic process in china. hong kong is 7.1 million people and china is 1.5 billion, in a schizophrenic system where a supposedly communist but truly capitalist oligarchy of the 19th century - which would have been condemned by karl marx - is maintaining a government that is simultaneously producing the contradiction of a middle class that will be the substrate of democracy. and to that middle class we are sending a message that is absolutely outrageous, as is outrageous what is happening here, and we will say it clearly. we are talking about the largest nation in the world and we are thirty-five members - with you thirty-nine - compared to the seven hundred and fifty or seven hundred i do not know how many who make up the european parliament. what kind of joke is this!? what message are we sending!? that we don't care! i have just heard from the head of the european external action service something which reminds me of a song, i do not know whether by rita pavone or by an italian: "parole, parole, parole". we talk about universal suffrage: in iran they have universal suffrage and they also have a chamber, which is responsible for finding candidates. but what are we talking about!? are we going to close our eyes because the situation in china means a huge business for us? and before that: words, words, words and wishes that the parts understand each other. but what parts exist!? a monolithic government that wants to maintain power, a society emerging in democracy and us doing words, words, words, thirty-five!
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, a ghost is haunting the world: democratic revolutions against the financial oligarchy that plunders and impoverishes us. there's no safe place for thieves to hide. popular movements are everywhere in tunisia, in egypt, in the squares in spain during the movement of the indignados and also in asia. we will always stand with those who fight against corruption and authoritarianism, wherever they are from. ours are in the streets against yours, because when you hypocritically support the protests in hong kong, you do so for geopolitical reasons, not for ethical reasons; because you continue to trade and negotiate an investment protection treaty with china and other countries that systematically violate human rights. hong kong is one of the world's leading financial centres, and the anti-democratic laws, which limit participation and the right to self-organisation, defend the same elites who here in europe plunder our people. we tell the students and workers of hong kong not to trust the bureaucracy of the pseudo-communist chinese party or an undemocratic and neoliberal european union. you are not alone; we will show our solidarity with all those who suffer repression for demanding freedom, democracy and social equality.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, look, i have two texts here and let's get to the point: chapter 15 of the pakistani penal code, in which article 295, letter c), determines that it is a crime punishable by death to directly or indirectly desecrate or blaspheme against the holy prophet muhammad. and here is another text, also interesting, which is a text of 24 november 2001, the cooperation agreement of the european union with pakistan, which says that respect for human rights and democratic principles, according to the universal declaration of human rights, is an essential 'essential, essential' element of this agreement. if mrs ashton - may god preserve her life for many years! - has the ability to put these two texts together and make them coordinate, then it is a miracle. what we have to do is to see which of these two texts prevails, to stop rhetoric and if we really have the principle of applying the democratic principle criterion as a requirement in our agreements, let us implement it in accordance with article 19. and if not, let's be honest and take it off. what's unbearable is the hypocrisy. so i'm talking about asia bibi saying: is mrs ashton going to present the article 1 requirement to the pakistani government with article 19, or are we going to keep playing beautiful music while the words are put by others?
acting president of the council (on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy). - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate the strong commitment to the asia bibi case and i am sure that dialogue between the european parliament and the parliamentarians in pakistan can also help to bring about change. i reiterate the european union's continued commitment to promote and defend human rights in pakistan at all times: the commission has also been working closely with the government, human rights defenders and other stakeholders. to this end, we will make full use of all the instruments at our disposal: the commission has already made a number of proposals. the upcoming visit of the president of the senate of pakistan to europe at the end of november, in addition to the visit to pakistan next week by eusr stavros lambrinidis, will be a useful opportunity to discuss these issues.
member of the commission. - this is indeed a very serious phenomenon that we are debating here today. it is a serious threat to the european union, and we saw what happened in brussels only half a year ago when a returning foreign fighter opened fire in the jewish museum in brussels and killed four people. we need to step up our efforts to stem the flow of foreign fighters and we need to work together in the european union. first of all, we need to ensure better information exchanges between the member states, notably by establishing appropriate mechanisms. one such mechanism is the passenger name record data that the council mentioned. pnr data could be an essential tool to carry out trend pattern analyses, identifying potentially high-risk travellers. this enables the authorities to better detect those foreign fighters travelling to and from the eu by air that were previously unknown to law enforcement agencies. pnr is also a very important tool to detect traffickers and drug smugglers. of course, an eu pnr needs a clear legal framework and coherent data protection safeguards across the eu in line with article 8 of the charter, as interpreted by the european court of justice. eu legislation must lay down clear and precise rules governing the scope and the application of the measures, and imposing appropriate safeguards so that the persons whose pnr data has been retained have sufficient guarantees to protect their personal data against the risk of abuse and any unlawful access or use of that data. i really hope that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs can look at this again. as you know, member state after member state is developing its own pnr system, and it would be much better to have a joint system with common rules, not least when it comes to data protection. another strand of action is the detection of returnees from conflict zones to europe, and therefore issues of border security and border management play a role here. the schengen information system (sis) is an effective tool for the detection and disruption of suspicious travel by sharing information about foreign fighters. it allows today for specific action to be taken on the basis of alerts. the commission is making efforts to accelerate and improve the information exchange on sis alerts among member states, and it is crucial that member states use all the possibilities offered by the system today. it is also important that member states carry out minimum checks on persons as required by the schengen border code and systematically check the travel documents of all persons at external borders against the relevant databases. there are voices calling for a revision of the existing framework on this, but it is important to first look at how we can use in an optimal way the existing tools and measures and make the best of them. the situation is urgent and the commission is, of course, looking at technical discussions, but for the moment we do not plan any initiatives in this area. you must also understand that the commission reserves its position until the next commission is in place. looking forward, aviation security capacity-building in third countries is a priority. the commission stands ready to support work in this field highlighted by the european council in august. we will continue our work on detection technologies to make sure that our own aviation security is as strong as it has to be. a very important strand here not to be forgotten, because it is key, is preventive work. we need to address, as the council mentioned, terrorists’ use of the internet. we know that many of these organisations recruit via the internet. that is why we have started a dialogue with internet providers to see if we can cooperate in developing counter-narratives online and in cooperation, for instance, with returned people who can tell their stories. as you know, we also created three years ago the radicalisation awareness network. it plays a very important role in helping local actors and member states to improve the tools and understand the root causes of radicalisation. we have networks working in all member states with families and victims to draft counter-narratives, to pool the research, and we are working on exit strategies and will very soon be setting up a sort of centre of excellence that will be at the disposal of member states for all this. at this point i would like to reiterate that security and fundamental rights are intrinsically related here. combatting racist and xenophobic crime, intolerance, discrimination, including promoting integration and social cohesion, is a key element of eu policies. it is very important not to stigmatise any group here. we will also do everything to give priority to the enforcement of the framework decision on combatting racism and xenophobia by means of criminal laws. honourable members, member states are meeting a lot to discuss these issues. the commission is trying to be helpful, creating forums for the exchange of information. we need to step up our action here to combat this dangerous phenomenon of foreign fighters. we should use the existing tools at our disposal to the maximum extent made possible by border measures and national databases. we must also facilitate and promote european action, for instance a european pnr would be important here. we need to reinforce and spread the very important preventive work that has already been going on for a couple of years. this is the only way that we can jointly address this threat.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the epp group, and that is monika hohlmeier. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council and commissioner cecilia malmström for the work they have done over the years and wish them every success in the future. the serious and persistent human rights violations in iraq and syria under the control of daesh have become a clear threat to international security. we are faced with acts of extreme cruelty: mutilation and beheading of civilians and soldiers; sexual slavery of women; recruitment of children and kidnapping. in short, they are engaged in creating terror by selective or mass killings of civilians, and also in causing mass displacements of people: thousands, millions of displaced persons and refugees. the recruitment of fighters by the so-called islamic state is not an isolated event throughout history: major international conflicts with certain islamic countries in between often become a good opportunity for the recruitment of jihadists. it happened in the 1980s with afghanistan, in the 1990s with chechnya and it happened again in the 2000s with the iraq war. but the big difference with all these conflicts is that the terror generated by daesh is on its way to surpassing all that was experienced in the previous decades. this terrorist group recruits its members through a studied and long-term recruitment work through social networks, which began even before the outbreak of the syrian conflict. we are facing a grave threat that is growing by the day. the number of european combatants is estimated at 3 000, including 300 belgians, 700 french, 500 from the united kingdom, 51 from spain. it must be recognized, ladies and gentlemen, that the return of these fighters to europe after having participated in armed conflicts and having received military training poses a very serious threat to our security. the union must therefore face up to this great challenge and do so without any reservations. and as i have said on many occasions before this house, the best tool to combat them is prevention and action by the intelligence services. yes, we will definitely support the european pnr. the commission's proposal is that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the draft budget. i'm going to support timothy kirkhope's initiative and i'm going to do everything i can to unlock something that remains dead, sadly dead, since april of 2013. so yes to the european pnr; yes not only to detecting those who return, but also to detecting those who leave or intend to leave. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the opportunity to present the initiative launched by the italian presidency to curb illegal immigration, one of the elements of the initiative. this joint police operation, known as 'mos maiorum', is taking place from 13 to 26 october 2014. it is the latest in a long series of similar initiatives, and the sixth such operation organised by successive presidencies since the launch of operation hermes under the belgian presidency in october 2010. mos maiorum was prepared on the basis of the guidelines contained in the 2010 police joint operations guide. the purpose of the guide was to implement the stockholm programme, which, as we know, was partly intended to improve security within the european union and to combat organised crime. the main objective of 'mos maiorum' is to collect information from the participating member states and schengen associated countries in order to undermine the ability of organised crime to facilitate illegal immigration to the european union. the aim of 'mos maiorum' is to identify the modus operandi used by criminal networks to smuggle their victims into the territory of the european union and to identify the link between the illegal crossing of the external borders of the european union and illegal migration within the schengen area. these objectives can be better achieved by exchanging relevant data at eu level and introducing a more efficient and comprehensive information sharing model. the implementation of this joint operation shall not imply any departure for the participating states from any aspect of the eu acquis relating to migration flows and the guarantees it provides to the persons concerned. likewise, the operation has no negative effect on the reception capacity of italy or any other participating state. furthermore, the rules of conduct of the operation clearly provide that all relevant activities are to be carried out with full respect for human dignity and human rights, with due regard to vulnerable groups. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that this brief presentation has helped to clarify the context of the operation, which is designed to dismantle illegal criminal networks seeking economic profit by putting the lives of innocent people at risk. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, as enshrined in roman law, the mos maiorum is the custom of the ancestors, a symbol of moral integrity and a set of rules and precepts which the roman citizen had to respect. europe has been a defender of the rule of law since its origins and must remain so. immigration should be a matter of state, regardless of ideology or government. the 'mos maiorum' operation, coordinated by the italian ministry of the interior and open to the voluntary participation of all member states and schengen partners, should pursue a number of objectives already referred to by the presidency of the council, but mainly identify, pursue and disrupt organised crime groups; detect irregular migrants and gather relevant information for investigative and intelligence purposes; provide a clear and up-to-date picture of the situation in relation to human trafficking operations, their modus operandi, the main trends and possible changes they may undergo, and develop joint actions to have an impact on irregular immigration, especially in relation to border controls and border surveillance activities. in my view, 'mos maiorum' should be understood neither as a persecution nor as a mass roundup of irregular immigrants, but as a real persecution against the mafias that traffic in human beings. protocols and actions must be produced which can be applied regardless of the political moment and with a continuity which ensures their success. this continuity in border control policy can be seen in the fact that the template that the italians will use to report on the operational results achieved is similar, if not the same, as that already used in previous operations: the belgian one, in october 2010; the hungarian mitras, in april 2011; the balder of denmark, in april 2012; aphrodite and perkunas, of cyprus, in october 2013. all these operations have naturally been based on respect for human rights. europe is a territory in which the rule of law must prevail. we must be concerned about preventing deaths and abuses at our borders and, in turn, facilitating the entry and legal defense of those who need our protection. this is why it is important to develop joint and transversal actions at european level and in the member states, as well as with countries of origin and transit. we must develop the ambitious proposals contained in the smart borders package and even consider, mr president, definitively, the reform and strengthening of frontex's capacities.
madam president, under the grandiloquent expression 'mos maiorum' is a police operation that is taking place not for the first time. an operation in which the governments of the member states of the european union - not all of them - agree to launch an identification system which targets the victims of illicit trafficking in human beings rather than the mafias behind it, and which should therefore not be objected to because, in principle, it is a legitimate operation of the council within its powers. it does happen, however, that it does cause concern, and for good reason. firstly, because we socialists have consistently denounced the biased and biased view of immigration that is being applied by the council of the european union in all matters relating to the control of the union's external borders. secondly, because once again the focus is on the person trying to gain access to the external borders of the union, and not on the mafias who are trafficking in their desperation. but thirdly, and fundamentally, because no door is being left open to regular immigration and therefore irregular immigration is being criminalized, stigmatized as illegal immigration. we are particularly concerned about the potential threat to fundamental rights posed by the racial or ethnic origin profiling of asylum seekers or of access to the external borders of the union and, of course, we are concerned that this also affects some particularly vulnerable borders, as is clearly the case with the borders of southern europe. this is the case - why not say it - in my country, spain. we have recently witnessed some very worrying events in melilla. in any case, i am not pointing the finger at the security forces and bodies of the guardia civil or the national police that monitor these operations, but at the chain of command of the government, which, without any respect for the fundamental rights of the people involved, is practicing hot returns, prohibited not only by european law, but also by domestic law, domestic law, the national law of my own country, spain.
madam president, 'mos maiorum' means 'the custom of the ancestors' in latin and is also the name of a pan-european, racist and fear-based macro-network. 'mos maiorum' is designed to terrorize those who have come in search of work, shelter and bread, but it also appeals to that fear of the other, of the stranger, that fear so well used by fascism and which still grips the hearts of many good people. in passing, we point to an imaginary enemy, to a culprit of the crisis who is not such, while the real enemies, the real culprits, look at us from the windows of the towers of the financial districts and rub their hands knowing that they can continue to steal here, but also there. beyond where we beat the unconscious, and sometimes the dead, at our jagged borders. if this is really the custom of our ancestors, i'll find another adoptive civilization that doesn't embarrass me so much.
mr president, we are talking about illegal immigrants, but the word 'refugees' is beginning to disappear, because it implies responsibilities in international human rights law. no one takes care of illegal immigrants and they are expelled: these are the words of caddy adzuba, congolese journalist and prince of asturias concordia prize winner. "mos maiorum" means racism, it means associating the idea of the immigrant with the criminal. it puts the right to non-discrimination and freedom of movement at risk, and it also joins the policies of the european union and of some member states such as spain, where the principle of non-refoulement and the right to asylum are not respected, with the so-called 'hot returns', which are the living image of a european union that can no longer give lessons on human rights to anyone. mr pons was saying in this house the other day, with all the cynicism in the world, that africa must be given hope, but what hope are we giving it? we exploit their resources at the source, we are accomplices of corrupt states and when the pressure of hunger, poverty and death push them to jump fences, to risk their lives in boats, we lock them up, expel them and abandon them to their fate. the political tendency to make others suffer needs to be changed.
mr president, it is curious that the first to translate the latin phrase and to speak of the custom of the ancestors was mr díaz de mera. of course, he has forgotten the auctorite aspect of that roman tradition, its military position against the hellenistic customs and asian currents of thought, that is, the fear of the other, of those who come from outside, as if there were an 'inside' and an 'outside' and, in response, to close the door. that is the mos maiorum. mr díaz de mera, to speak of respect for human rights when we have just seen another video depicting the repression of the civil guard at the fence in melilla is an absolutely unacceptable sarcasm. for once, listen to commissioner malmström: she has just said that force should not be used to deter unauthorized border crossings. neither the savage crackdown on the fence nor 'mos maiorum' fulfils that premise, so i call on the commission to act. walls and mos maiorum are a disgrace.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first of all i would like to express my complaint about the timing of this debate, i would not say at night, but at least at night, and of course that the vote will be tomorrow instead of today, when the budget was being voted, which would have given us a little more visibility into how the budget of the european union is prepared and also how it is well managed. i would also like to thank the italian presidency for its presence. i think that historically we have always complained that, when the council's management was approved, the presidency was not present here, and i also thank mr della vedova for his words and his offer, which i hope we can use to improve not only relations but above all transparency. i would like to say - and i thank the two rapporteurs, mr sarvamaa and mr deutsch - that they have given us two examples here today of how parliament controls and monitors the budget and also protects the financial resources of the european union. in the first case, the case of berec, the body of european regulators for electronic communications, not major problems were identified - as mr sarvamaa very well said - but small ones which, taken as a whole, gave the impression of poor management and, above all, could lead to the growth of major problems. i think that in frank dialogue with the court of auditors, the commission and the berec managers, we have done a very good job in improving public recruitment, staff selection, conflict prevention and management and, above all, greater visibility as an agency of the european union, something which is also in the interest of berec and which i understand - and i congratulate mr sarvamaa on this - and the alternative rapporteurs and the berec managers themselves for their good management. a good practice of how small steps and good dialogue can improve transparency. on the other hand, there is the bad practice of the council, which persists in not recognizing the democratic and healthy right of the european parliament to audit the accounts, especially in those areas where, it is true, no illegality has been raised, and we recognize this, but there are small errors that the court of auditors has pointed out in procedures or in conception as regards public procurement and building construction policy. these are small things, but just as in berec a big step forward has been made in terms of transparency, so in the council's case it would also be to be expected. i therefore take up your point, mr della vedova, and we in this group will try to improve that visibility and transparency.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to the speeches. if there is a political will to find a modus vivendi between parliament and the council, then we will be able to find solutions. in this context, our two institutions should avoid antagonising each other. the council is acting in good faith and i have no doubt that parliament is doing the same. interinstitutional conflicts are not useful for common objectives and for the european agenda in general. we are all concerned about sound financial management and public accountability of the institutions of the european union. that, i believe, is what the citizens expect of us. i thank you again for the opportunity to speak in this debate. thank you for your attention.
madam president, the citizens of europe need to believe in europe again and that will only be possible if we reverse the situation and generate confidence, growth and employment. european citizens are tired of so much austerity, so many cuts and exponential growth in inequality. it is not enough to announce plans to re-industrialize europe: they must be carried out with 'fresh' money, with real money, with extra money. we must encourage the construction of transport and energy infrastructures and reinvigorate the commitment to innovative industries; we must unlock credit so that small and mediumsized enterprises can breathe, invest, generate economic activity and, consequently, employment, something which is particularly important for countries like spain and for regions like my own - galicia - which is suffering from a serious economic and demographic crisis and which needs this european push to get back on the path of convergence. we have to do something about this, and we have to do it now.
madam president, dear colleagues, regarding catalonia, i would like to inform you and denounce certain intolerable facts happening over the last weeks. following the will of the catalan people to peacefully and democratically decide their political future, it has become commonplace for the spanish establishment to compare the pro-independence movement with nazism. this outrageous exercise of political criminalisation seems to have become a national sport in some spanish media and political parties. the spanish government’s reaction has been non-existent. nothing has been done to stop or condemn these attitudes. in this respect, the spanish government is not upholding the fundamental rights and values of the european union, in particular those mentioned in article 2 of the teu. the catalan people expect europe to answer and react, condemning those who trivialise nazism and violate fundamental european principles.
madam president, today i want to talk about elcogas, a project which is an example of industrial development. a pioneering project to develop environmentally efficient technologies and to exploit local resources to produce energy; a project that was born with european aid and which today, when it demonstrates its environmental and economic viability, is going to close because of the greed of the power companies and the ineffectiveness of the regulators. today i want to denounce the situation of elcogas, which provides more than 1 500 jobs, direct and indirect, in puertollano, an industrial region of spain hit by 34% unemployment. a plant that's about to close and that europe doesn't want to hear about. if we really care about jobs, if we really care about industry, if we really care about development and clean energy - as this new commission told us yesterday - i urge you to work together to prevent profits from being imposed on people again. not at the elcogas closing. elcogas is not closing!
madam president, growth according to our strategy 2020 has to be smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the coming years. and that will only be possible if we are committed to inclusive education systems, to policies that guarantee universal access to ordinary schools for all pupils with special needs; that guarantee their permanence in these schools on equal terms with others; that also guarantee the quality of the educational response they receive and - of course - the promotion of all of them at the various educational stages. they must be in the regular classroom: there can be no segregation of pupils with special needs and pupils without special needs. it must be something very exceptional to have this type of pupil in temporary, non-permanent education. that, without a doubt, is betting on educational quality - there is no educational quality without total inclusion - and it is betting on education in values. everyone contributes something: the disabled person receives encouragement from his peers; those without a disability learn to be tolerant, the value of respect and tolerance.
author. - madam president, the resolution is very practical: after the council agreed to give uzbekistan time to implement absolutely necessary resolutions and after the resolution of this parliament of 15 december 2011, which stated that none of the requirements that had been determined were working, and in accordance with the cooperation agreement with uzbekistan, article 2 of which explicitly speaks of respect for guarantees and human rights, paragraph 12 states unequivocally that it has six months to implement the resolutions that it has not wanted to implement and that, otherwise, article 2 will be applied in conjunction with article 95 of the agreement, which means the suspension of the agreement. this is a sufficiently radical measure and what the gue/ngl group colleague has pointed out is all contained in the resolution of 15 december 2011. let's not be so personal, let's look for the common instead of the individual, it's worth it.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the remarks in the resolution deserve very special consideration in any circumstances. in fact, with the withdrawal of allied forces from afghanistan imminent, it is feared that one of the next targets of fanatical islamism will be uzbekistan, a country where the standard of living of the population is deteriorating in a continuous and alarming way, and where fanatical islamism continues to advance. the regime's use of force is the breeding ground for a culture of violence against the system that is becoming more and more widespread. there is a real danger that uzbekistan will become another chechnya, and the responsibility for this, ladies and gentlemen, lies with the present political regime of islam karimov, whose advanced age and visible deterioration - not only of his person but also of his environment - make it feared that the transition will be problematic and not peaceful at all. this is the other issue that we must address soon, ladies and gentlemen.
madam president, speaking of uzbekistan, i want you to have this image in your mind: imagine that your son or daughter, when they are small, are forced to work, to pick ten kilos of cotton a day in inhuman conditions. imagine that, when they grow up a little bit, they fall victim to human trafficking and are taken to other countries to engage in prostitution. imagine if your daughters were lucky enough to escape that reality, before they reach adulthood they are in the hands of men who have the right to beat, despise and rape them. imagine if you've gotten out of all that, 80 percent of them when they give birth by cesarean are then sterilized without their consent. all this is happening. and, as always, by economic and geostrategic interests, which are the ones behind it. it is also worth recalling that the european union has had an agreement with uzbekistan on textile trade since 1995. we demand, in short, with the support of this house, that the european union play its role and be the guarantor of human rights.
author. - madam president, my first words are, from the bottom of my heart, of solidarity with the mexican people in the face of the barbarity of the iguala crimes, and, of course and above all, of support for the victims and families of these unacceptable crimes. at this moment, all mexicans and europeans who believe in human rights must raise their voices and use it as a basis for true cooperation between regions that are distant in miles but close in values. we must not only raise our voices in indignation and condemn these crimes, but we must also offer our help to the mexican authorities so that they can face the challenge of fighting against drug trafficking and corruption, and against those people who use the institutions for their own benefit, such as the mayor of iguala. i welcome the decision of the prosecutor's office to arrest them, which we have been informed of: enough of the climate of impunity that those who do not respect the institutions want to impose. and i support dialogue and closeness to the mexican people: only from there can we build and not destroy.
author. - madam president, the enforced disappearance of these 43 students has caused a shock to the world, but it is only the tip of the iceberg of a situation that we call impunity, and the data says so. the country with the most murdered journalists in the world and 22,000 people missing, only half of them under the current government - and the government's own data says so. or the continuing allegations of widespread harassment against social actors and political activists. real impunity, so says the national commission for human rights. you don't usually judge, investigate or punish. so, 98% of crimes go unpunished. we need not just good words, but deeds. mexico must cooperate within the regional framework with celac to solve this problem of widespread impunity, and the european union agreement must be conditional on the effective fight against this impunity.
author. - madam president, it is clear to everyone that what has happened in mexico these days is extremely serious. i want to begin by expressing my sincere solidarity with the victims, the missing and their families. we want to denounce that this heinous crime adds to a climate of growing impunity in the country and we condemn the continuing crime of enforced disappearances: more than 22 000 cases since 2006. we want to demand that the 43 students who are still missing be returned to their families; we demand that president peña nieto put an end to the climate of impunity by taking steps to ensure that a serious investigation is conducted and that the conviction is upheld; and we expect the mexican government to fight organized crime without a break. i would like to express my group's sincere solidarity with the mexican people in their struggle against the repression of social movements and the crimes committed by the security forces. we call on the high representative to take decisive action in this regard and we ask that no consideration be given to modernising the global agreement until credible and tangible measures are taken to combat impunity. the alternative resolution and the amendments tabled by my group of the united left are not intended, ladies and gentlemen, to open a general case against a country we love. but to love mexico and defend its people today means demanding your government take more decisive action against impunity.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting a report on the situation in the former yugoslavia. on behalf of the european socialists, i would like to give you a hug, to show you our solidarity and to say that this parliament condemns in a strong, complete and absolute way what has happened in the horrible crimes of iguala. i want to tell you that we ask and demand that the mexican government bring those responsible to justice - all of them, direct and indirect. and we demand that there be no impunity. but at the same time, we tell the mexican government that we want to collaborate with them, that we do not want to impose sanctions on the mexican government, on the mexican democracy. we do not want to cut off our political dialogue with mexico. we don't want to cut our economic ties with mexico. we want to help mexico and we want the government of this country to get from these horrible events a new impetus to modernize, improve and give more democracy, more security and more freedom to the citizens of mexico.
madam president, welcome the most special guests of this house: the colleagues of the 43 normalistas of iguala. thank you for being here! today marks the 26th anniversary of his disappearance, evidently ordered by the mayor of iguala, currently on international wanted list with his wife. iguala embodies all the evils that mexico wants to banish: violence, impunity and corruption, especially in public institutions. the mexican state has to redefine itself in the face of crime because it has made a terrible qualitative leap. it is no longer just complicity: public officials, political representatives. in this case, a mayor is the criminal responsible; he is the one who has given direct orders to persecute, kill and kidnap, and that is very serious. the peña nieto government was slow to react, yes, and made a serious mistake in giving him a local treatment at first. but it has come to the fore and its unquestioning defence of the rule of law, the rule of law and the prosecution of the guilty must be recognised and supported by the european union, which must also demand from it the standards of transparency and accountability to end corruption.
madam president, like my colleague, i was shocked by the news of the massacre in iguala. the european parliament must of course condemn this tragic event in the strongest possible terms, but at the same time call on the mexican government to reform the institutions of the state and to continue the intensive fight against organised crime. however, it is not possible, in my view, to remain at the conviction alone. the european parliament should look for ways to help countries where organised crime is at least in some parts outstripping the state. as a former czech minister of justice, i can still remember how the eu helped the acceding states with reforms of the judiciary and the state bodies in general. i think we should consider a similar form of assistance for mexico as a strategic partner of the eu. i would therefore urge the relevant commissioners to pay attention to this area, to pay attention to the area of justice in countries like mexico.
member of the commission. - madam president, on behalf of vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, i thank members for this debate on the terrible incidents in iguala in the state of guerrero, mexico. these appalling events, and the collusion between local authorities and criminal gangs which they have brought to light, have shocked mexican society and the international community alike. we have seen a wave of public demonstrations over the incidents, which continue to this day. the events have also drawn unparalleled attention in the local and international media. from the very beginning, the eu delegation in mexico and the european external action service (eeas) have been in contact with the mexican authorities, closely following developments. the eu delegation, in agreement with the heads of mission of the eu member states present in mexico, has expressed its profound concern over the crimes committed and called for an impartial and exhaustive investigation. mexico is a close and valued strategic partner of the eu. the eu and mexico have a strong convergence of views on human rights issues, both in multilateral human rights forums and also bilaterally. mexico, belonging to the same group of like-minded partners as the eu, has been a strong supporter of many eu initiatives and resolutions in geneva and in new york. our regular high-level dialogue on human rights has allowed for several open and frank discussions on core human rights issues, including the fight against organised crime and reform of criminal justice. the international community should join forces with mexico to support it in facing this difficult and complex challenge: the fight against organised crime and impunity. it is in this spirit that the eu supports the efforts of the federal government. key issues in this endeavour are: strengthening the justice system, a reform of the police, reinforcing the culture of citizen security, and the observance of human rights. human rights priorities for the eu in mexico include the criminal justice system – and the issues of impunity, torture and arbitrary detention – as well as gender violence and threats against human rights defenders and vulnerable groups. these priorities guide the eu human rights dialogue and cooperation in mexico. i would like to remind the house that through the social cohesion laboratory ii project, with an eu contribution of eur 11 million, the eu supports capacity building at the level of federal institutions and in the states of oaxaca and san luis potosi. under the european instrument for human rights and non-state actors thematic programme, the eu supports around 30 projects, including in the field of criminal justice reform, for an amount of eur 7.5 million. in conclusion, we condemn the latest events with all our energy. the mexican government must carry out its investigations, bring the perpetrators of crime to justice and regain control of lawless areas.
in writing. i support the resolution condemning the disappearance of 43 students of the magisterio since 26 september in the city of iguala, mexico. according to several sources, these students were chased and taken by police officers and handed over to armed men linked to a drug cartel. the mayor of iguala, his wife and the city's police chief are on the run. in addition, 28 bodies have been found in clandestine graves that do not correspond to those of the missing students. these crimes demand a swift and firm response from the mexican authorities. the current levels of infiltration of organized crime into local police and administrative bodies in certain areas of the country are alarming. the mexican government has our full support in its determined fight against organized drug trafficking, police corruption and the climate of violence and impunity that exists in some states of the country, particularly against activists committed to the promotion and defence of human rights. these crimes cannot go unpunished. investigations must continue, those responsible must be identified and brought to justice
madam president, i would like to greet and thank the students from iguala, mexico, who are here with us today in this gallery. before voting on this resolution i wanted to give you all our support, as well as the families of the victims in mexico. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - we have condemned and reiterate our condemnation of the coup d'état in ukraine and the rise of fascist forces to power. that is why we are voting against the eu-ukraine association agreement, because it was the trigger for the coup, and because the consequences of the free trade agreement will be disastrous for various sectors of the economy in ukraine and in some eu countries. behind the alleged aid that the eu intends to give to ukraine, there is the imposition of economic liberalization, deregulation and privatization of various sectors, as well as the dismantling of the ukrainian productive fabric, which will not have the conditions to compete with the big european companies. the report is intended in particular to accompany the entry into force of trade provisions of the eu-ukraine association agreement. that is why i did not vote for it.
in writing. - we have condemned and reiterate our condemnation of the coup d'état in ukraine and the rise of fascist forces to power. that is why we are voting against the eu-ukraine association agreement, because it was the trigger for the coup, and because the consequences of the free trade agreement will be disastrous for various sectors of the economy in ukraine and in some eu countries. behind the alleged aid that the eu intends to give to ukraine, there is the imposition of economic liberalization, deregulation and privatization of various sectors, as well as the dismantling of the ukrainian productive fabric, which will not have the conditions to compete with the big european companies. the report is intended in particular to accompany the entry into force of trade provisions of the eu-ukraine association agreement. that is why i did not vote for it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of extending the autonomous trade measures for ukraine because, alongside the need to avoid the legal vacuum and uncertainty caused by the end of the current measures and the suspension of the application of the eu-ukraine trade agreement until january 2016, this regulation includes, as a condition for its application, respect for human rights by ukraine. the condition is set out in the wording of the regulation itself (recital 3 and article 2) and is fully binding. this is part of a series of actions undertaken by the eu to support ukraine in its peace process, and has been endorsed by all 28 eu member states. we european socialists believe that international trade should not be an end in itself but a means of promoting sustainable development, respect for human rights, labour standards and the environment in the world, in the framework of political dialogue. we will ensure that the government of ukraine duly fulfils its commitment to respond in the terms of this regulation. and if not, we will call for the immediate termination of the trade preferences granted here.
in writing. - we have condemned and reiterate our condemnation of the coup d'état in ukraine and the rise of fascist forces to power. that is why we are voting against the eu-ukraine association agreement, because it was the trigger for the coup, and because the consequences of the free trade agreement will be disastrous for various sectors of the economy in ukraine and in some eu countries. behind the alleged aid that the eu intends to give to ukraine, there is the imposition of economic liberalization, deregulation and privatization of various sectors, as well as the dismantling of the ukrainian productive fabric, which will not have the conditions to compete with the big european companies. the peasantry of the european union and ukraine will once again be affected by the competition of industrial agriculture and agro-export business. the report is intended in particular to accompany the entry into force of trade provisions of the eu-ukraine association agreement. that is why i did not vote for it.
in writing. - the situation on the eu’s borders is not at all satisfactory. in ukraine, more than 3 000 people have been killed in fighting this year. yet the eu and we, as meps, must find some way to stop the flames at our borders. it is our duty to do so. we need to have a clear geopolitical vision about what the eu stands for. our ring is on fire, from the mediterranean to the eastern flank. hence, i welcome the agreement to boost commercial links between ukraine and the eu. this agreement has to go hand in hand with various political elements that strengthen the democratic process, in order to promote a better life for ukraine’s people.
in writing. - we have condemned and reiterate our condemnation of the coup d'état in ukraine and the rise of fascist forces to power. that is why we are voting against the eu-ukraine association agreement, because it was the trigger for the coup, and because the consequences of the free trade agreement will be disastrous for various sectors of the economy in ukraine and in some eu countries. behind the alleged aid that the eu intends to give to ukraine, there is the imposition of economic liberalization, deregulation and privatization of various sectors, as well as the dismantling of the ukrainian productive fabric, which will not have the conditions to compete with the big european companies. the report is intended in particular to accompany the entry into force of trade provisions of the eu-ukraine association agreement. that is why i did not vote for it.
in writing. - following the european parliament's decision in april to postpone the approval of the 2012 ebrd budget, the european parliament took several steps to improve the situation, such as better financial planning or strict monthly monitoring. that is why i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. - following the european parliament's decision in april to postpone the approval of the 2012 ebrd budget, the european parliament took several steps to improve the situation, such as better financial planning or strict monthly monitoring. that is why i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. - the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications was the only eu agency that did not receive the 2012 accounts from this parliament in april 2014. the european court of auditors included in its 2012 annual report reservations regarding the legality and regularity of certain operations and certain aspects of their management. these shortcomings, which can be explained to some extent by the recent establishment of the agency, have been remedied. i have therefore decided to support the clearance of the accounts of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - following the european parliament's decision in april to postpone the approval of the 2012 ebrd budget, the european parliament took several steps to improve the situation, such as better financial planning or strict monthly monitoring. that is why i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. - following the european parliament's decision in april to postpone the approval of the 2012 ebrd budget, the european parliament took several steps to improve the situation, such as better financial planning or strict monthly monitoring. that is why i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report proposing that the council and the european council should not be given discharge for the 2012 budget, since the council is once again refusing to answer questions put by parliament in the exercise of its right of scrutiny under the tfeu, as reiterated by the european commission itself. the lack of cooperation, once again, on the part of the council and its lack of will for transparency have again led to parliament not giving its discharge for 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report proposing that the council and the european council should not be given discharge for the 2012 budget, since the council is once again refusing to answer questions put by parliament in the exercise of its right of scrutiny under the tfeu, as reiterated by the european commission itself. the lack of cooperation, once again, on the part of the council and its lack of will for transparency have again led to parliament not giving its discharge for 2012.
in writing. - the approval of the council's management and accounts for the financial year 2012 was postponed in the april plenary session for the fourth consecutive time, due to the lack of transparency demanded by parliament from the council. the council continues to refuse to provide this house with the required documents and to appear before the committee on budgetary control as part of the regular exercise of clearing the management of the eu accounts. the situation has not changed since then and i have therefore voted in favour of the decision not to approve the council's accounts for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report proposing that the council and the european council should not be given discharge for the 2012 budget, since the council is once again refusing to answer questions put by parliament in the exercise of its right of scrutiny under the tfeu, as reiterated by the european commission itself. the lack of cooperation, once again, on the part of the council and its lack of will for transparency have again led to parliament not giving its discharge for 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report proposing that the council and the european council should not be given discharge for the 2012 budget, since the council is once again refusing to answer questions put by parliament in the exercise of its right of scrutiny under the tfeu, as reiterated by the european commission itself. the lack of cooperation, once again, on the part of the council and its lack of will for transparency have again led to parliament not giving its discharge for 2012.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this resolution on the european agreement concluded by the european union of inland navigation (eui), the european ship owners' organisation (eso) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport because, although it may appear to be an agreement to improve the social provisions for workers in this sector, it is yet another example of downward social harmonisation. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this resolution on the european agreement concluded by the european union of inland navigation (eui), the european ship owners' organisation (eso) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport because, although it may appear to be an agreement to improve the social provisions for workers in this sector, it is yet another example of downward social harmonisation. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution to recommend the adoption of the agreement reached by the social partners on certain aspects of the organization of working time in inland waterway transport. the proposal will help to improve working conditions for the 31 000 crew members and other staff concerned by establishing minimum conditions for weekly and night-time working time, and for the rights to paid annual leave and daily and weekly rest. the agreed proposal will also bring fairer conditions of competition to the 9,465 companies in the sector in the eu.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this resolution on the european agreement concluded by the european union of inland navigation (eui), the european ship owners' organisation (eso) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport because, although it may appear to be an agreement to improve the social provisions for workers in this sector, it is yet another example of downward social harmonisation. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this resolution on the european agreement concluded by the european union of inland navigation (eui), the european ship owners' organisation (eso) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport because, although it may appear to be an agreement to improve the social provisions for workers in this sector, it is yet another example of downward social harmonisation. that is why i abstained.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, i understand that everyone agrees that the problem is not just luxembourgish. the answer cannot therefore be exclusively luxembourgish. i'm no longer in charge of this country, and i'm not apologizing for what i've done for my country. i never gave instructions on a particular tax file. the luxembourg ministers of finance do not have any instructions to give to the tax authorities. just like the tax administration doesn't have to report to the finance minister. please note that there are other countries where it is the finance ministers who make decisions on advance tax rulings. that's not the case in my country. i'm not saying this to relieve myself of responsibility. politically, i am of course responsible for everything that is done by the tax authorities or any other luxembourg administration. but you have to know the rules. what i wanted to say to you - as i said when i visited the various parliamentary groups, in the various televised debates, in the debate we had in plenary - is that the commission which i have the honour of chairing will fight tax evasion and tax fraud. why can tax evasion and tax fraud exist? because we have before us an arsenal of disparate national rules, which facilitate tax evasion by involving the tax administrations, who have to apply the laws as they are. if these are disparate and if you organize, with formidable tax engineering talent, this interaction between the different national rules, you arrive at the result to which unfortunately we have arrived, which does not correspond to the requirements of tax fairness. i will. those of you who have been with me for a long time, both in luxembourg and elsewhere, know my deep convictions on this point. do not doubt my convictions on these points. don't describe me as the great friend of big business. this must have been very amusing for the top management of luxembourg and european companies. big business has better friends in this house than i do, believe me. mr. verhofstadt, i'm not very impressed by the fact that you're asking for my resignation, because i don't owe my position to your support. you're consistent on that point. you voted against me. it seems quite normal to me that you would ask for my resignation in any case. mr. gollnisch, you must be informed before you speak. first of all, i was never minister of economy. i have always had ministers of economy, whether liberal or socialist, because i have governed with both the socialists and the liberals. secondly, i have not resigned as prime minister of luxembourg. we held an early election, and i did not resign. in view of these initial errors, you will allow me not to answer your other questions which, in fact, were not questions but mere insults, to which i will not answer. frau zimmer, you are dealing with my biography. that is a white field, if you will. i have yesterday as kommissionspräsident geredet. it is also the expectation of the parliaments that the commission should be able to take action to prevent and combat tax evasion and tax fraud in the enterprises concerned. this is exactly what i have done and pointed out, why and how this phenomenon occurs in at least 22 countries of the european union. the commission does not work better with the luxembourg government together as to its term of office. there have been few prime ministers in recent years who have enjoyed such intensive and good relations with the european commission as i have. i will therefore also try, as president of the commission, to have similarly good relations with other heads of government, as in the earlier part of the war. mr. verhofstadt, dear guy, what is it? first they tell me: "do not interfere, do not interfere with the instructions in progress". then they said, "tell mrs. vestager to finish her investigation before the end of the year". i will not do that, because i do not interfere with the way in which mrs vestager intends to fulfil her role. i have every confidence in her. she doesn't need your advice or my instructions to know what she wants and what she should do. (applause) if it turns out that unauthorized state aid has been decided by some luxembourg body, why do you want me to resign as president of the commission? then i'd have a problem. you were prime minister. can you stand up now and say: 'there has never been a state aid refused and cancelled by the commission during my time as prime minister'? you don't know that. i'm for a broad and deep investigation, in all countries. maybe then you'll have a problem. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the revelations about secret agreements with hundreds of companies to lighten the tax burden in luxembourg are extremely serious. while this was happening, a policy of extreme austerity was being implemented with dramatic consequences for many citizens and for many countries. mr juncker, that is enough. when inequalities increase, we have unbearable unemployment, poverty, especially child poverty, increases, europe must guarantee zero tolerance for tax fraud, tax evasion and dumping. the commission has no tolerance for tax havens. there are no words, no commitments. we are at a crucial moment in the construction of europe. it's urgent to investigate. it's a need and a requirement. it is in your hands, mr juncker. either europe gives hope back to the citizens or the citizens will lose hope in europe for good.
in writing. we welcome the steps taken by the commission to tackle tax fraud through the fight against aggressive tax planning, the efforts to abolish banking secrecy, especially in the countries around us, and the agreements with these countries to establish automatic exchange of information mechanisms. however, it is necessary to emphasise that much work remains to be done in the field of the fight against fraud, especially in the case of large enterprises. in this respect, the recent news about the luxembourg government and its previous tax agreements with large companies to reduce their taxation considerably by acting as a european hub to this end is quite worrying. citizens can observe on the one hand a certain inaction on the part of the national and community authorities - since it is perfectly possible to conclude that many of these practices are legal, even if they are clearly unfair - and on the other hand a certain collusion between these authorities and the companies that benefit. when that trust also affects the image of the most senior official in the newly elected commission, it is completely counterproductive and it is necessary to act with the utmost force.
madam president, commissioner, allow me first of all - on behalf of the people's party, the party which supports the spanish government - to support mr juncker. more so today, when he has voluntarily decided to appear before this house. i have no doubt that the debate we are having today would not have taken place if we had done enough to move towards the much needed and longed for economic union, fiscal union and, in short, political union. and i have no doubt that what has happened in the last few days is an opportunity, precisely, to achieve what we have not done and to move forward in this much-awaited fiscal union. but let us not forget that tax union does not mean equal taxation. we must create a fiscal union which is flexible enough to allow the implementation of popular fiscal policies, which are precisely one of the hallmarks of socialism. and i have no doubt that what has happened in the last few days is also an opportunity - as mr juncker has rightly said today - to continue to fight, if need be even harder, so that tax havens are a thing of the past.
madam president, this situation exposes the european commission and undermines its credibility. while mr juncker pushed austerity deals as president of the eurogroup, he also struck deals with 340 multinationals to avoid paying taxes. how can mr juncker look at those citizens who today see their access to public healthcare limited because there are no resources? how can mr juncker today look at those unemployed who have their benefits withdrawn because they have no resources? his credibility is at an all-time low right now. i must also say that the proposals you have put forward today are totally inadequate, as my colleagues have already pointed out. he did not speak about the fiscal transparency of the member states. he has not spoken of minimum tax levels at european level to avoid tax competition, which is the main problem draining public finances. i must also say that mr juncker's conflict of interest is obvious, because if it is the commission itself which he chairs which has to investigate the agreements which he has concluded, if this is not a conflict of interest, then someone should come and explain it. i have to say that mr juncker is once again the wrong person in the wrong post. without a clear commitment, without a commission of inquiry and without a clear fight against tax evasion, the only possibility for mr juncker is to leave.
madam president, mr juncker has taken almost a week to show his face. the spanish socialists have been demanding until the last minute that he should appear in this house, because the president of the european commission must know that democratic legitimacy is won not only by votes but also by respect for the citizens and their institutions. since the economic crisis began, millions of citizens have lost their jobs, their rights, their hope... and how do you think they feel today, when they see that there have been agreements so that large multinationals could evade their taxes? i tell you, cheated and swindled. today, what is needed is not just an explanation, but a reaction. we demand the fiscal union. we demand the prohibition of tax havens, fair taxes for all. we demand from mr juncker a different way out of the crisis, a fair way out which corrects what we find offensive, and above all to those outside.
madam president, i do not know how the word 'caradura' will be translated into the different official languages of the union, but i think it best expresses what we have seen today. mr juncker said: 'i am responsible for tax fraud in my country, but you can rely on my commission to prosecute tax fraud'. mr pittella, in his usual grandiloquence, said: 'we must fight tax fraud, but we european socialists will continue to support you, mr juncker.' mr zalba, from my country's people's party, said: 'mr juncker, we in my party support you'. and he is supported by mr. de guindos, who was the financial director of the consultancy that helped him sign those secret agreements. mario benedetti said: "suicide does not redeem a torturer, but something is something". resignation doesn't redeem the faces, but something is something.
madam president, just one question for you: what criteria do you use to award the cards?
madam president, what has happened in luxembourg is extremely serious, doubly serious. while that was happening, a policy of extreme austerity was being implemented, with dramatic consequences for many citizens, for many countries, and that is a clear social injustice. when inequalities grow; when we have unbearable unemployment rates; when poverty increases, and especially child poverty; when there is no credit for business; when we have difficulty making productive investment, europe cannot tolerate this. europe must ensure zero tolerance for fraud, tax evasion and dumping. zero tolerance against tax havens. there are no words, no commitments. we are at a crucial moment for the european union. we need to investigate, clarify, act, move forward... because, commissioners, either europe gives people hope again, or people will lose hope in europe for good.
in writing. the revelations concerning secret tax agreements between the luxembourg government and several well-known multinationals demonstrate that the internal market is threatened by anti-competitive practices which use tax competition and opacity to distort the allocation of production factors and undermine tax collection and the maintenance of welfare policies. meanwhile, many states have increased taxes on workers and cut social spending as part of the budgetary consolidation process. the fact that these so-called agreements were secret casts doubt on their legality. the commissioner for competition should initiate inquiries as soon as possible. the lux leaks scandal should be the turning point for a change in the fight against tax evasion, avoidance and fraud in europe, which should be achieved by the total disappearance of tax havens within the european union, the automatic exchange of information, the definitive harmonization of corporate taxation and the creation of a specific european tax. i therefore call on the european commission to put in place the measures necessary to achieve these objectives as soon as possible.
in writing. the european model was inspired by the slogan 'no taxation without representation'. millions of europeans are shouting to their representatives that there will be no 'fair representation without fair taxation'; that is why this is the first political debate after juncker's inauguration, to tackle the issue that best reflects the terrible state in which the eu is: inequality and injustice in the sharing of the sacrifices. and what is the source of that evil: inequality and tax evasion and fraud and leniency with tax havens. that is why the luxembourg agreements are not a surprise but confirmation of something unacceptable. workers pay their taxes but multinationals don't, and to top it off they're allowed to demand where they don't pay. that has to stop and a ritual declaration by juncker is not enough. we must investigate how we got here and we must act, and that requires transparent cooperation on taxation between member states and harmonisation but, above all, ensuring that the big fortunes and multinationals pay all their taxes, not where they choose but where they make their profits.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, welcome, mrs georgieva, to this new task. and thank you very much, mr caldeira, for the court of auditors' efforts, for the new analyses, the new projects and the new, wise and courageous proposals. we have a new commission. we are facing a new parliament and a new budgetary period. and with the same crisis for seven years, which is already like a biblical plague, and persevering. so we also have new challenges: an increasingly limited budget, with payment problems. i've never seen him. a programme, a programme promise by mr juncker: 300 billion for investment, but with difficult and complex financial engineering formulas, which the court of auditors itself warns us against and which we must watch out for, mrs georgieva. and on the other hand, the control of banking instruments, which is also becoming increasingly difficult and on which we will have to work together with the economic authorities of the union. and new alarms in revenue and own resources. the court of auditors once again points out that there are problems of credibility, of the shape of the gdp of the member states. we are feeding an increasingly deficitary budget and a customs system that is increasingly uncontrolled, so these own resources are also in deficit. we therefore have great concerns, not only with regard to expenditure, but essentially also with regard to revenue. in any case, i thank mr caldeira, the court of auditors, for having indicated to us what we have spent in the european budget for 2013: 290 euros per inhabitant per year. and of those 290 euros per person per year that the union budget has spent, there is only material error only, even though no euro is susceptible to error at 13.6 euros per person per year. it may not seem like much, but even that little is enough to make the work of continuing to delve deeper and deeper into control fundamental. i am grateful to you, however, that the court of auditors is also working on trends and magnitudes. as has been said here, the error rate is being reduced by 0.2% in the 45 billion euro of the common agricultural policy, and in rural development, on the other hand, where the error rate is smaller, it is higher: almost doubled to 6.7%, although it is slightly reduced. i mean, they're different magnitudes and different trends. we therefore support and follow the court of auditors in its recommendation to move more towards a culture of results, but with incentives, rather than a culture of looking only at increasingly limited spending and increasingly stronger sanctions which do not encourage but create more burden for citizens and the administration.
madam president, we welcome the introduction of this motion for a resolution, which seeks to give a boost to a process in northern ireland that seemed to be at a standstill. as a society, we have an obligation to promote peace, but also as a society we have a moral obligation not to forget what happened when what happened was terrible. we cannot forget the nature of what happened in northern ireland. we cannot forget the reasons why he was killed, because he was killed in the name of european nations and because he was killed in the name of the religions that we europeans believe in. we cannot forget that there was an armed confrontation there which left very important wounds which have not yet been healed and will be for a long time. yes, we must encourage peace processes and isolate radicalism and try to encourage understanding, but we cannot forget that if we do not bear in mind what has happened, the victims are the ones who always end up paying, alone, for terrorism. the commissioner has said - and it is true - that this resolution concerns northern ireland alone and exclusively, but we spaniards would like the motion for a resolution to say that any policy of impunity is out of the question. when there is no justice, the victims pay twice for what the terrorists do to them. in northern ireland there have been thousands of victims of armed conflict. in other places, where there was no armed conflict but peace, terrorism has also claimed thousands of victims. we must draw up a european charter of victims' rights, so that terrorists can ask forgiveness, so that terrorists can compensate, so that terrorists can serve their sentences, so that terrorists can help to clarify all the crimes committed, and so that we can all recognize the victims of terrorism with honour and dignity. ladies and gentlemen, impunity kills victims a second time if the terrorists escape. there is no impunity in the world that can be maintained - nor in northern ireland. in this motion for a resolution, madam president, there is no reference to the victims of terrorism. it seems like a lie, but we're still in time to prevent it.
madam president, madam commissioner, i believe that even speaking in spanish we can and should respect the decision taken by the irish groups in this process. and i think that means recognizing and remembering what indira gandhi said: "there are no roads to peace, peace is the way". and peace in the case of northern ireland is a long process, it's a difficult process, and i think we have to help. it is a problem of europe as a whole and we must help. and if there is agreement here from all the irish groups, i think that's fantastic, and i think we have to be understanding that this process, this long and difficult road to peace, requires help, requires political support, requires speeches; requires a telling of the truth, requires a reconciliation of communities, requires a reintegration of people. europe is also helping northern ireland with economic aid, but it is doing so in the knowledge that this difficult path of building peace, of reconciled coexistence, requires the support of europe as in other processes that have also been able to take place in europe, as has happened, for example, with the conquest of peace in the basque country. the european union's help is very important, it is vital, and i think we have to reclaim the consensus of the irish political groups here today so that europe can continue to contribute to that long and difficult path to peace.
madam president, i would like to join in supporting this motion for a resolution because i believe in truth, in justice, in reparation, in respect for the fundamental rights of all, and in dialogue and reconciliation to resolve violent conflicts. i welcome european involvement in this process because it is consistent with the founding values of our union and because it recognises that a flashpoint of instability in the heart of europe is never an internal problem of a member state but an opportunity for solidarity and cooperation between us all to help resolve it. that is why the president of the basque country, iñigo urkullu, is already working with the peace programme managers so that the experience gained in northern ireland will also help us to bring the sad and very negative phase of violence that we have suffered in the basque country to a final end. i ask the european institutions to have the same degree of interest, attention and involvement in euskadi as in northern ireland and to become friends of euskadi, because we need it too.
madam president, i think this motion for a resolution is very important. it contains the key points, contained in the agreements, which must be fully developed and implemented and which have not yet been, especially in the six occupied counties of the north-east of ireland. i would like to congratulate mrs creţu on the willingness she has shown both in this debate and at the hearing before the committee on regional development. he said they would not fail to address sensitive issues and support the peace process as a whole. european involvement is essential on the road to peace and the resolution of political conflicts also on european territory. this motion for a resolution, which was also adopted by a wide variety of parliamentary groups, sets out the facts and calls on all parties, including this parliament, to tackle the problems head on so that they can be solved. that's the only way. i can only encourage this parliament and the european commission to get involved and contribute in the same way to peace and to the resolution of the conflict in euskal herria, in the basque country. we all win and that is, of course, our commitment.
mr president, this is the second time in this house that i have had to refer to turkey's violations of international law, but this time it is not about alleged financing of fundamentalist groups that practice terrorism, nor about destabilisation in the middle east. this time we are talking about threats from turkey to a member country of the european union: cyprus. the threats from turkey, a country which i recall is a candidate for membership of the european union, are threats to the whole of this union, to all of us. the movement of turkish vessels into the exclusive economic zone - that is to say, the territorial waters of the republic of cyprus - and the navex maritime directive, which was unlawfully issued by turkey, are in breach of international law, maritime law and the united nations convention on the law of the sea. the high representative must demand an end to the turkish occupation of cyprus, condemn ankara's continued violations of international law and threaten to freeze bilateral relations, including accession negotiations.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, since the beginning of this conflict in december 2013, this parliament has repeatedly called on the parties to work towards a ceasefire and to ensure political stability. however, today we have a growing concern because there are continuous breaches of fragile ceasefires - the last one was reached on friday and broke last sunday - and therefore we are in a situation of continuous military conflict. this ongoing conflict is affecting the displacement - as has been pointed out - of two million people, is leading to continuing violations of the most basic human rights - up to 10 000 murders - and is also endangering the lives of thousands upon thousands of children who, as has just been pointed out, do not have access to basic nutrition. we know that there is no military solution to the conflict and that efforts must therefore be made to support the african union in its efforts to establish a national dialogue on the basis of the agreement reached in addis ababa. and that national dialogue has to be a general national dialogue, covering all the causes behind the conflict; it has to be inclusive and therefore incorporate all the actors who are confronted with each other; and it has to create the basis of a trust that allows progress towards the solution of the conflict. from the humanitarian point of view, we are particularly concerned about the difficulties in accessing people in need, the violations of the rights of humanitarian actors whose lives are being punished, and respect for the principles of independence and neutrality inherent in humanitarian action.
mr president, there are two indicators which clearly measure the consequences of the war situation. first, south sudan is at level 3 of emergency, the worst level there is to measure global humanitarian crises. second, there are many areas in sudan that are officially rated as phase 4 on the global food insecurity index. this is a harsh reality that evaluates what's going on there. apart from the data already given - and which refers to 11.3 million inhabitants - i want to add a few more: they have the highest maternal mortality rate in the world; also, the country has a very low literacy rate - 70 percent of children between six and seventeen years old have never been to school; and eleven thousand children have been recruited as combatants for the conflict. the european union, and the countries of the european union, have donated 254 million euros. it's not enough. i would like to highlight the work of two organizations, unicef and oxfam. they need a lot of help and they need no weapons to stop the conflict. no, the conflict is still going on, ma'am.
mr president, commissioner, ever since south sudan became the youngest country on the planet in july 2011, there has been a continuous discussion about the viability of this new state. what is clear is that it will be unworkable if the international community fails to act, and particularly if the european union does. the terms of the drama have been described in all possible magnitudes: four million people affected; with one and a half million internally displaced; with half a million displaced to other countries; and, in any case, with massive suffering of the most vulnerable population; with the systematic use of rape of women as a weapon of war; and with incalculable harm, especially to minors, by malnutrition. the european union cannot therefore intervene militarily, it cannot resolve the situation militarily because there is no military solution to the conflict. but there is a diplomatic action pending to force the government of salva kiir to implement the necessary reforms, to combat corruption and systematic patronage, to address severe poverty, to try to alleviate the damage inflicted on the most vulnerable population. but above all, there is a humanitarian action that requires funding, that requires strong action by the european union to address the serious shortages in food, in the construction of emergency and protective shelters, and in financial support for programmes and projects aimed at providing cover for the most vulnerable population, the innocent victims of this conflict that has worsened since december 2013. we cannot allow the hopes of south sudan to be drowned in misery by the passivity of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since its creation, the european union has been characterized as a region of economic, social and territorial integration, fighting for freedom and seeking social well-being. with the economic recovery, the new european commission has set out to make progress on social issues as a key measure to emerge stronger from the crisis, with the aim of achieving sustainable growth. but for that, credit needs to flow again. we are constantly saying that small and mediumsized enterprises are the key to growth and job creation - as my colleague thomas mann has said - but in order to do that, we have to give a sequence of events. in order to create jobs, there has to be growth, and for this to happen, there has to be investment by businesses, which can only be achieved if they have access to credit. i am therefore pleased to see that countries outside the european union are deepening their agreements with us, adopting them as their own and participating financially in community policies which, as is the case today, offer great opportunities to small and mediumsized enterprises, especially through microfinance loans, which will contribute to improving the european business fabric and, therefore, the well-being of our citizens.
mr president, freedom of movement is one of the basic pillars on which we have built the european union and that is why i welcome and support the possibility of extending this freedom of movement, these agreements, to third countries, to countries neighbouring the european union. but it is also true that freedom of movement is much more than the elimination of frontiers, it is much more than being able to travel without a passport. freedom of movement must also guarantee the right to carry a number of basic rights within the european union, in order to guarantee equal opportunities and citizens' rights. it is good to be able to make progress on freedom of movement with third countries, but to do this we must also ensure that freedom of movement between the countries of the european union includes - as i say - the possibility of 'porting' a number of rights which we consider to be basic, such as the right to unemployment benefits, the right to pensions, the right to health and the right to education. they are essential pillars of our european social model and, if we believe in european citizenship, we must work to ensure that this concept of european citizenship, the principle of freedom of movement, includes without any doubt the 'portability' of these rights between the states of the european union itself.
for a month now, the workers of lantero in vilagarcia de arousa have been on strike. they are on strike because this company, with dutch shares, which has received european erdf funds, wants to lay off 32 people and reduce wages by 30% for another 99. lantero is taking actions to intimidate its workers, including hiring a security company that stays at the factory with guards armed with pistols and dogs of a breed considered dangerous. put people in workers' assemblies and send guards to the vicinity of the premises where they are taking place. these actions violate the right to strike recognised in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. also in galicia there are prison sentences for 4 people for exercising their right to defend themselves against the violence of capitalism. this parliament has an obligation to ensure that the spanish authorities do not allow the infringement of the right to strike at lantero and guarantee the right to strike in my country, in galicia and in the spanish state.
mr president, on 3 november a police officer was testifying in valencia, in the spanish state, accused of a lack of aggression against algerian minors. the juveniles couldn't testify because they'd already been expelled, so it'll be difficult for the trial to be held with guarantees. it is one more case of the many reported in the so-called centers of internment of foreigners, places of shame, where those who commit the administrative fault of not having their papers in order can be detained for up to 60 days. these are illegal prisons where people are crowded into, deprived of their most basic rights. in the spanish state there are seven, with 9,000 prisoners, more than six per cell, much worse than in any prison. in europe there are a total of 280. the report is a good one, but it is not enough. is this the europe of human rights we boast about? do we want to convince the world of the goodness of our democracy? with a lake like this in our territory, colleagues, that is impossible. the detention centers for foreigners must be closed now. they are our shame, the great shame of europe, and we cannot tolerate them any longer.
mr president, jean monnet said that his vision was to put an end to the nationalisms of a uniform state, that of 'we do not unite states, we unite people'. in catalonia, several million of these people took part last sunday in a consultation to express freely our opinion on the political future of our country, although not in the way we would have liked, since we did so when the spanish government had suspended everything that could be suspended. however, catalan society continues to take the initiative in the face of silence, the refusal to dialogue and the ban. the ban and the threats can never be the solution to a political problem, a problem which directly affects democracy within the european union. unfortunately, the time is running out, if not already running out, for an internal solution to the catalan question. now more than ever is the time to sit down to dialogue, listen and reach agreements that allow the cry of the catalans who ask to be consulted on their political future to be heard. we cannot prevent someone from feeling european and catalan, we cannot ask diversity to be uniform, nor can we prevent diversity from being different.
i would first like to welcome to this house, on behalf of all of us, mr igor corman, president of the parliament of the republic of moldova, and the delegation accompanying him, who have taken their seats in the official gallery to attend this debate on moldova and to witness - it must also be said - the historic vote on the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. the delegation will also be holding various meetings at our institution throughout the day. i therefore wish you a happy stay in brussels on behalf of the european parliament.
the next item is the joint debate on:- recommendation by petras auštrevičius, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part (09828/2014 - c8-0130/2014 - 2014/0083 ((nle)) (a8-0020/2014), and- report by petras auštrevičius, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, containing a proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part (2018/284/c170022 (ini)) (a8-0022/2014).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this association agreement - on which i express my support and solidarity with the president of the moldovan parliament here - will obviously not lead to a collapse in production, in agri-food markets or in the agricultural sector of the european union. moldova is a country with small production. but i do want to take this opportunity to send a message to the commission and the commissioner who is here and who is working on this agreement. i would like to say that there is a need for greater coherence and coordination between this association agreement and the agricultural policy and the european agri-food system. once again, imports of products are used, in this case fruit and vegetables. as i have said, there will be no breakdown, but there is a need, commissioner, for greater coherence and coordination in the policies pursued by the college of commissioners.
mr president, i think the first thing we have to take into account here is that we are holding a debate for the elites. there is a lot of talk here about the moldovan people, but i have not seen any reports on the impact of this agreement on the people: on the moldovan people and on the various peoples of the european union. and this seems very irresponsible to me. because i also want to say to the moldovan people and to the people of europe that this neoliberal model that we know in europe has meant the destruction of the peasantry to unimaginable levels, with the occupation of our local markets by european agribusinesses; the destruction of small and mediumsized enterprises; the relocation of production and of the enterprises themselves. and now the people of the south are experiencing hunger, which was eradicated; we are experiencing poverty and social exclusion; we are experiencing destruction, the expulsion of thousands of families from their homes; and now it is also going to our public health, education systems. that's the reality we know... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the members of this parliament for their interest and overwhelming support, and for their determination. our discussion has confirmed that we agree on the need to continue strongly supporting the republic of moldova moving closer to the european union. at the same time, we need to send clear messages on the need to enhance reform efforts after the elections. we will now focus on the thorough implementation of the agreement, which contains a very ambitious reform agenda. the full benefits of the agreement will only be available to the moldovan people if we pursue these paths. it is moreover clear that the european union will stand by moldova in the present difficult regional situation. successfully implemented reforms will make moldova less vulnerable to external pressure. i also want to reiterate the union’s support for a solution to the transnistrian conflict within the framework of the 5+2 talks, respecting moldova’s sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally-recognised borders, and the special status of transnistria. in response to several speakers: the eu through its projects supports all minorities and regions mentioned today. i was asked by mr marinho e pinto about how we control and audit the projects. i think it is important to recall that it is about bilateral funding, which is transferred to moldova through budget support. payments are made by the commission only against delivery of concrete results agreed bilaterally between the government of moldova and the european union. as it plays an important role in the moldovan economy and today’s debate, some clarifications concerning wine. it is indeed highly regrettable, i have to say, that russia has stopped importing a whole range of agricultural products, not only wine, for purely political reasons, because if it comes to the quality of the wine it is an outstanding one. but your information that the union is not allowing imports of wine is wrong. in fact it does so, both under the current autonomous trade preference, and now also under the new dcfta. in fact the dcfta tariff-free quota has been doubled for exports. finally, moldova is a key country of the european union’s eastern partnership. moldova has shown significant political will in the past to achieve remarkable results in our cooperation. a positive track record of implementing the association agreement with our support will also be the best way for moldova to prepare for any future endeavours it might envisage in its cooperation with the european union.
this is a matter that is already in the hands of the quaestors. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
mr president, i would just like to congratulate all of us on the landing of the rosetta probe on the comet. i think it is fundamental for the european space agency that it has been achieved. i think it's very important.
mr president, where you say 'considering it essential to put an end to all violent conflicts within the european union', something we agree with, we propose to add: 'avoiding, in any case, policies of impunity'.
in writing. - we voted in favour, considering that the court of justice has recognised that a statement made by a member outside the european parliament may constitute an opinion expressed in the exercise of his duties under article 8 of the protocol, since it considers that the place where the statement is made is not important but its nature and content. ana gomes' criticisms of the portuguese government's decision are not only concerned with issues of genuine public interest - the privatisation of important shipyards - but also have a direct and obvious connection with the exercise of her duties as a member of the european parliament. mrs gomes had taken an interest in this question at european level, as is shown, for example, by the questions for written answer which she had submitted, individually or jointly, in accordance with parliament's rules of procedure.
in writing. - on the recommendation of the juri committee of this parliament, i voted against the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of ms ana gomes requested by the deputy prosecutor-general of the portuguese republic in relation to allegedly defamatory statements made by the member in a televised debate. article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the eu guarantees that opinions expressed by a member of the european parliament enjoy immunity when they have been expressed in the exercise of parliamentary functions. there is no doubt that there is a direct and obvious link between the opinion delivered by ana gomes and her duties as a member of the european parliament. suspending the immunity of ms gomes for the statements in question would restrict her freedom in the exercise of her parliamentary functions and would be manifestly contrary to the purpose of article 8 of the protocol.
in writing. - we voted in favour, considering that the court of justice has recognised that a statement made by a member outside the european parliament may constitute an opinion expressed in the exercise of his duties under article 8 of the protocol, since it considers that the place where the statement is made is not important but its nature and content. ana gomes' criticisms of the portuguese government's decision are not only concerned with issues of genuine public interest - the privatisation of important shipyards - but also have a direct and obvious link with the exercise of her duties as a member of the european parliament. mrs gomes had taken an interest in this question at european level, as is shown, for example, by the questions for written answer which she had submitted, individually or jointly, in accordance with parliament's rules of procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it allows the mobilisation of resources for 71 workers at andersen ireland limited, which operated in nace rev. 2 division 32 (manufacture of jewellery, beadwork and similar articles) during the reference period, 21 october 2013 to 21 february 2014. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in ireland, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the requested aid of eur 1 501 200 because it will help workers made redundant by the anderson ireland company in rathkeale, an area where unemployment is twice the national average. the funds mobilised will enable the irish authorities to provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 138 young people under 25 who are neither in employment, education or training. this will improve training and create employment opportunities in an area where there are few sectors or expanding production facilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it allows the mobilisation of resources for 71 workers at andersen ireland limited, which operated in nace rev. 2 division 32 (manufacture of jewellery, beadwork and similar articles) during the reference period, 21 october 2013 to 21 february 2014. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in ireland, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, as it considered that there was an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is just a warm cloth on top of the bleeding that occurs every month - in terms of massive redundancies - in this europe of markets and capital. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, as it considered that there was an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is a mere patch that is collected every month - in terms of mass redundancies - in this europe where the interests of big business are above the interests of citizens. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in ireland because i am a firm believer in european solidarity. this will support the reintegration into the labour market of the redundant workers of andersen ireland limited and the provision of personalised services to a maximum of 138 nini under 25 years of age, co-financed by the egf and the irish government, reaching a total of 276 direct beneficiaries. today more than ever it is important to show the irish people that there is also solidarity, social commitment and the struggle to create decent living conditions for all citizens in europe.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, on the understanding that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of aid. however, we believe that this globalisation adjustment fund is simply a patch on the mass redundancies in this europe where the interests of big business are put above the interests of citizens. it is urgent to formulate policies for the sharing of wage labour and for a real decoupling between access to work and the right of access to basic public goods and services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 1 501 200 from the globalisation adjustment fund for 276 workers who have lost their jobs at andersen ireland limited, ireland, as a result of the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. in addition, the irish authorities will provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 138 young people who are neither in employment, education or training and who are under 25 years of age on the date of submission of the application, as the redundancies affect the nuts 2 level regions south and east (ie02) eligible under the youth employment initiative. these aids provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, as it considered that there was an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is just a warm cloth on top of the bleeding that occurs every month - in terms of massive redundancies - in this europe of markets and capital. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it allows the mobilisation of resources for 71 workers at andersen ireland limited, which operated in nace rev. 2 division 32 (manufacture of jewellery, beadwork and similar articles) during the reference period, 21 october 2013 to 21 february 2014. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in ireland, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in support of a fund which is essential for mitigating the impact of globalisation on the functioning of local economies and employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for 71 workers at andersen ireland limited, which operated in nace rev. 2 division 32 (manufacture of jewellery, beadwork and similar articles) during the reference period, 21 october 2013 to 21 february 2014. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in ireland, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it allows the mobilisation of resources for 761 greek workers of sprider stores sa, a company operating in the economic sector classified in division 47 of nace rev. 2 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in greece, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the requested aid of eur 7 290 900 because it will help workers made redundant by the sprider stores company in the greek regions of central macedonia and attica. the funds mobilised will enable the greek authorities to provide personalised services, including training and job orientation, co-financed by the egf, to 1 311 workers, as well as support for the start-up of business initiatives by the workers concerned.
in writing. - the mobilisation of the egf in greece to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in sprider stores s.a., an undertaking operating in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles) due to the economic crisis; in addition, the greek authorities will provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 505 young people who are neither in employment, education nor vocational training (nini) and who are under 25 years of age at the date of submission of the application, as the redundancies affect nuts level 2 regions eligible under the youth employment initiative. the amount of the financial contribution is eur 7 290 900 and it affects a total of 1 311 beneficiaries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it allows the mobilisation of resources for 761 greek workers of sprider stores sa, a company operating in the economic sector classified in division 47 of nace rev. 2 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds cannot solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in greece, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, as it considered that there was an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is just a warm cloth on top of the bleeding that occurs every month - in terms of massive redundancies - in this europe of markets and capital. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, as it considered that there was an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is a mere patch that is collected every month - in terms of mass redundancies - in this europe where the interests of big business are above the interests of citizens. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in greece because i am a firm believer in european solidarity. this will support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at sprider stores sa and of 505 ninis, reaching a total of 1 311 beneficiaries. today more than ever it is important to show the greek people that europe also has solidarity, social commitment and the struggle to create decent living conditions for all its citizens.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund because we believe that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of aid. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is a mere patch that is collected every month - in terms of mass redundancies - in this europe where the interests of big business are above the interests of citizens. it is urgent to formulate policies for the sharing of wage labour and for a real decoupling between access to work and the right of access to basic public goods and services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 7 290 900 from the globalisation adjustment fund for 1 311 workers who have lost their jobs at sprider stores s.a., greece, as a result of the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. in addition, the greek authorities will provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 505 young people who are not in employment, education or training and who are under 25 years of age at the date of submission of the application, as the redundancies affect nuts level 2 regions eligible under the youth employment initiative. while these aids cannot in themselves alleviate the drama of unemployment in many greek regions, they do constitute good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. - the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, as it considered that there was an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider that this globalisation adjustment fund is just a warm cloth on top of the bleeding that occurs every month - in terms of massive redundancies - in this europe of markets and capital. the processes of industrial conversion, labour flexibility and the technicization of production which are characteristic of the third industrial revolution make it increasingly difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it allows the mobilisation of resources for 761 greek workers of sprider stores sa, a company operating in the economic sector classified in division 47 of nace rev. 2 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in greece, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to support a fund which is essential for mitigating the impact of globalisation on the functioning of local economies and employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it allows the mobilisation of resources for 761 greek workers of sprider stores sa, a company operating in the economic sector classified in division 47 of nace rev. 2 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds cannot solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in greece, but at least they offer the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is one more way for strong economies to enter new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers from different geographical areas in competition. in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets. i think it is an act of interference by the eu in moldova, especially since two thirds of the population have spoken out against this association agreement. i have therefore voted against its approval.
in writing. - i supported the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova because it represents recognition of the efforts made by this country and its citizens in modernising the country, especially in implementing the european reform programme, including the reform of the judicial and police systems, the restructuring of the anti-corruption framework and the implementation of the human rights action plan and the roma action plan. it is therefore a step forward on the path of political association and economic integration between the eu and moldova, which should bring clear benefits for the citizens of both territories.
in writing. - a joint delegation of the pse and the group led by stanishev and fleckenstein has just been to the democratic party of moldova's election presentation and a seminar on the european agenda, supporting the full integration of moldova. the eu is supporting a peaceful solution to the transnistrian conflict, although it is a long-running conflict that will always weigh on moldova. the fragility of the pro-european coalition and the pro-russian inclination of the moldovan communists are of concern. parliamentary elections are held on 30 november this year. the eu has also adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of life in the country, including the introduction of a new health insurance system, the introduction of a new health insurance scheme and the introduction of a new health insurance scheme.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is one more way for strong economies to enter new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers from different geographical areas in competition. in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets. i think it is an act of interference by the eu in moldova, especially since two thirds of the population have spoken out against this association agreement. i have therefore voted against its approval.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the association agreement with moldova because i agree that the eu supports this country in developing a more prosperous, fair and modern society that improves the living conditions of its citizens with quality jobs. the agreement makes moldova the first eastern european country to benefit from a visa-free regime with the eu. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of the environment and will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of the environment. most importantly, the benefits of this agreement are directly reflected in the people.
in writing. - the conclusion of the eu-moldova association agreement is a recognition of the significant progress made by moldova in its political and socioeconomic reforms to meet the european reform agenda, including the reform of the judicial and police systems, the restructuring of the anti-corruption framework and the implementation of the human rights action plan and the roma action plan. progress so far has been remarkable, but the effective implementation of the national human rights action plan, with particular attention to the human rights of the roma population, should be continued. the signing of the association agreement will help to continue efforts to improve the stability, independence and effectiveness of the institutions responsible for ensuring democracy, the rule of law, good governance and transparency. this association agreement represents a significant step forward in relations between the eu and the republic of moldova and a commitment to political association and economic integration, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of its conclusion.
in writing. - the vote against ratifying the eu-moldova association agreement was taken because such an agreement is primarily in the interests of unclear economic interests. on the other hand, in a context of geopolitical destabilisation in that region and with a territorial conflict such as that in moldova, where the open conflict over the territory of transnistria has dragged on for more than 20 years, this agreement may become an element that rekindles tensions and generates further destabilisation in the region. moreover, such ratification has been proposed without a thorough and democratic debate, which would be appropriate for such a deep-rooted agreement, as has happened with the association agreements with georgia and ukraine. since the outbreak of the crisis in ukraine, the process of association with these countries has been accelerated, with the european union developing a defiant and irresponsible position which may lead to increased hostilities with russia.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is one more way for the strong economies to enter new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of the weaker productive systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers and peasants from different geographical areas in competition. it is an agreement for the economic elites; the debate conceals how the european model destroys the peasantry, how peasant products are displaced from local markets by those of agro-exporting businesses. the destruction of smes, the relocation of production and businesses, and the dismantling and privatisation of health and education in the southern european union are also being covered up. it is not an agreement to benefit the populations, it is an agreement to favour the interests of capital.
in writing. – this free trade agreement will not only boost the business opportunities for both sides but, more importantly, will help to improve the quality of life of so many people. as stated in the agreement, giving the opportunity to have free access to the biggest market of the world will ensure moldova’s companies have a big chance to improve their sales and revenues and hence to create more jobs. last but not least, it is important to underline that as moldova is a strategic partner of the eu in the east of europe this agreement should strengthen the relationship with other partners in the ring of the eu.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is one more way for strong economies to enter new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers from different geographical areas in competition. in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets. i think it is an act of interference by the eu in moldova, especially since two thirds of the population have spoken out against this association agreement. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is one more way for strong economies to enter new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers from different geographical areas in competition. in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets. i think it is an act of interference by the eu in moldova, especially since two thirds of the population have spoken out against this association agreement. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement as it complements the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova in this specific area.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is one more way for strong economies to enter new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers from different geographical areas in competition. in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets. i think it is an act of interference by the eu in moldova, especially since two thirds of the population have spoken out against this association agreement. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. - the vote against ratifying the eu association agreement with the republic of moldova was taken because such an agreement is primarily in the economic interests of certain eu countries. on the other hand, in a context of geopolitical destabilisation in that region and with a territorial conflict such as that in moldova, where the open conflict over the territory of transnistria has dragged on for more than 20 years, this agreement may become an element that rekindles tensions and generates further destabilisation in the region. moreover, such ratification has been proposed without a thorough and democratic debate, which would be appropriate for such a deep-rooted agreement, as has happened with the association agreements with georgia and ukraine. since the outbreak of the crisis in ukraine, the process of association with these countries has been accelerated, with the european union developing a defiant and irresponsible position which may lead to increased hostilities with russia.
in writing. - the vote against ratifying the eu-moldova association agreement was taken because such an agreement is primarily in the interests of unclear economic interests. on the other hand, in a context of geopolitical destabilisation in that region and with a territorial conflict such as that in moldova, where the open conflict over the territory of transnistria has dragged on for more than 20 years, this agreement may become an element that rekindles tensions and generates further destabilisation in the region. moreover, such ratification has been proposed without a thorough and democratic debate, which would be appropriate for such a deep-rooted agreement, as has happened with the association agreements with georgia and ukraine. since the outbreak of the crisis in ukraine, the process of association with these countries has been accelerated, with the european union developing a defiant and irresponsible position which may lead to increased hostilities with russia.
in writing. - the conclusion of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement is a recognition of the significant progress made by moldova in its political and socioeconomic reforms to meet the european reform agenda, including the reform of the judicial and police systems, the restructuring of the anti-corruption framework and the implementation of the human rights action plan and the roma action plan. progress so far has been remarkable, but the effective implementation of the national human rights action plan, with particular attention to the human rights of the roma population, should be continued. the signing of the association agreement will help to continue efforts to improve the stability, independence and effectiveness of the institutions responsible for ensuring democracy, the rule of law, good governance and transparency. this association agreement represents a significant step forward in relations between the eu and the republic of moldova and a commitment to political association and economic integration, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of its conclusion.
in writing. - the vote was against because an agreement of this kind is primarily in the interests of unclear economic interests. on the other hand, in a context of geopolitical destabilisation in that region and with a territorial conflict such as that in moldova, where the open conflict over the territory of transnistria has dragged on for more than 20 years, this agreement may become an element that rekindles tensions and generates further destabilisation in the region. moreover, such ratification has been proposed without a thorough and democratic debate, which would be appropriate for such a deep-rooted agreement, as has happened with the association agreements with georgia and ukraine. since the outbreak of the crisis in ukraine, the process of association with these countries has been accelerated, with the european union developing a defiant and irresponsible position which may lead to increased hostilities with russia.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is one more way for strong economies to enter new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers and peasants from different geographical areas in competition. it is an agreement for the economic elites; the debate conceals how the european model destroys the peasantry, how peasant products are displaced from local markets by those of agro-exporting businesses. the destruction of smes, the relocation of production and businesses, and the dismantling and privatisation of health and education in the southern european union are also being covered up. it is not an agreement to benefit the populations, it is an agreement to favour the interests of capital.
in writing. – i agree that this agreement is not an end in itself but only the beginning of a closer relationship with the eu. as we have witnessed recently in ukraine, we need stronger political and economic ties with our ring and now with the eastern one. by doing this, we will bring greater stability and prosperity to the whole european continent, not only the eu. as well, this kind of agreement is based on common values in terms of human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.
in writing. - it is not the first time that i have taken a stand against free trade agreements, since trade deregulation is one more way for strong economies to enter new markets at the cost of the progressive dismantling of weaker production systems, thus increasing inequalities and asymmetries between countries and putting workers from different geographical areas in competition. in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets. i think it is an act of interference by the eu in moldova, especially since two thirds of the population have spoken out against this association agreement. i have therefore voted against.
mr president, i would like to use this explanation of vote to point out that the spanish delegation of the ppe has voted against the northern ireland peace process report for a number of reasons. we consider that the absence in this report of any mention of the victims of terrorism and the rejection of the oral amendment tabled, which rightly sought to avoid cases of impunity, are sufficient reasons to vote against this report. but i would also remind you, mr president, that in the debate last night there were comments which drew a parallel between northern ireland and the basque country. i would remind you that there was an armed conflict in northern ireland between two parties. in the basque country there has only been and there is an armed conflict on one side, that of the murderous eta terrorists who have killed hundreds of innocent victims; and that, unfortunately, that terrorist gang, as we all know, is still active, refusing to abandon and hand over weapons, refusing to collaborate in solving more than 300 murders that have not been solved and refusing to disappear immediately from the face of the earth.
mr president, i am basque and my father lived in the basque country. my father was threatened with death for not paying the blackmail of the terrorist gang. my father was not part of the conflict, so i cannot accept that it is proposed that this can be the case in northern ireland, the example for the resolution of other conflicts. firstly, this resolution has been cooked up in an undemocratic way, without giving us any option to make any amendments. if only the oral amendment by mrs pagazaurtundúa, whose brother was killed for dissent - and he was not part of any conflict - had been adopted, we would have approved the amendment. there are three points which we do not accept: there is no mention of the victims, there is no equal treatment of murderers and murdered, and there is no justice for crimes. consequently, recital d, which states that there must be equal treatment, considers in parity and mutual respect - look at you, between murderers and murdered, none. because in the basque country there has been no inter-communal conflict, but people who did not think like the terrorists and were killed.
in writing. - it is undeniable that the progress achieved to date in the northern ireland peace process is a remarkable and positive example of conflict resolution, based on collaboration, consent and the principles of equal treatment and mutual consideration and respect, which has had a beneficial impact not only on political relations in northern ireland but also beyond it. we are, however, concerned that the peace process has come to a standstill. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on all parties to the process to work constructively towards a lasting solution to the conflict and the full implementation of the good friday agreement and subsequent agreements, in the interests of a lasting peace.
in writing. - since the good friday agreement was signed in 1998, the peace process has made successful progress in northern ireland, to the point where it has achieved remarkable economic results and has become an example of conflict resolution at international level. the involvement of various international actors, including the european union through the international fund for ireland, has undoubtedly contributed to this. however, the current state of stagnation in the peace process is a matter of grave concern and it is necessary that all parties return to the table to give a new impetus to the dialogue in order to consolidate the progress achieved, promote reconciliation and build a peaceful society that will eradicate violence once and for all. to that end, i welcome the european parliament's offer to help the parties in the objective of advancing the peace process and ensuring coexistence in peace and freedom. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - it is a joint resolution on the peace process in northern ireland, promoted by the british delegations to the european parliament. the resolution assessed very positively the progress achieved to date, but also:1. expresses concern that the peace process has reached a stalemate and urges all parties to the process to work constructively towards a lasting solution to the conflict, as well as the full implementation of the good friday agreement and subsequent agreements, in the interests of a lasting peace;2. the initiative to open talks between all parties to overcome the current stalemate is welcomed;3. welcomes the appointment of senator gary hart by john kerry, secretary of state of the united states of america, as his personal envoy; expresses concern at the continuing violent criminal acts undermining the peace process; and5. the eu's support for promoting reconciliation, in particular the work of the task force on northern ireland set up by the ec, the development of the peace programme and the unconditional support of the ep, is highlighted.
in writing. - it is undeniable that the progress achieved to date in the northern ireland peace process is a remarkable and positive example of conflict resolution, based on collaboration, consent and the principles of equal treatment and mutual consideration and respect, which has had a beneficial impact not only on political relations in northern ireland but also beyond it. we are, however, concerned that the peace process has come to a standstill. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on all parties to the process to work constructively towards a lasting solution to the conflict and to fully implement the good friday agreement and subsequent agreements in the interests of a lasting peace.
in writing. - the resolution was voted in favour because it considered that the northern ireland process, which was crystallized in the so-called good friday agreement (1998), was an example of conflict resolution and negotiation which had achieved remarkable results, but which should not be allowed to stand still and therefore dialogue between the parties remained necessary in order to resume the outstanding issues in order to move towards a lasting and stable solution. the resolution also stresses the need to promote economic and social development as an element in the consolidation of the peace process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the peace process in northern ireland because of the european union's project and commitment to peace since its foundation. the stagnation of progress in the irish peace process has necessitated a push from the european parliament, calling for the urgent need to continue to promote reconciliation between the two communities living together in the north of the island. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. for this reason, and because of the specific characteristics of the situation in northern ireland, i voted against the oral amendment tabled by a member of the liberal group.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the northern ireland peace process, which was crystallized in the so-called good friday agreement (1998), was an example of conflict resolution and negotiation which has achieved remarkable results, but which should not be allowed to stand still and therefore dialogue between the parties remains necessary in order to resume the outstanding issues in order to move towards a lasting and stable solution. the resolution also stresses the need to promote economic and social development as an element in the consolidation of the peace process.
in writing. - the resolution was voted in favour because it considered that the northern ireland peace process, which was crystallized in the so-called good friday agreement (1998), was an example of conflict resolution and negotiation which had achieved remarkable results, but which should not be allowed to stand still and therefore dialogue between the parties remained necessary in order to resume the outstanding issues in order to move towards a lasting and stable solution. the resolution also stresses the need to promote economic and social development as an element in the consolidation of the peace process.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on northern ireland. i welcome the european parliament's interest in completing the peace process and avoiding a renewed escalation of tensions. the first thing that must be done to bring peace to the region is for the citizens and institutions of the region to contribute, but it is also necessary for the european institutions to use their potential in this field.
in writing. - the peace process initiated in ireland with the 1998 belfast agreement has made great progress, providing a remarkable and positive example of conflict resolution, based on collaboration, consent and the principles of equal treatment and mutual consideration and respect, which has had a beneficial impact not only on political relations in northern ireland but also beyond. the role of the european union and its international partners in supporting the process has been crucial, in particular the work done through the international fund for ireland. however, the peace process is currently at a standstill. it is essential that all parties to the process participate constructively in the talks convened to overcome this stalemate and reach a lasting solution to the conflict that guarantees the end of violence once and for all. the european union must continue to provide assistance to promote reconciliation and improve relations between communities. i therefore join parliament in its offer to help the parties to advance the peace process and to ensure a peaceful and free coexistence by voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the resolution was voted in favour because it considered that the northern ireland peace process, which was crystallized in the so-called good friday agreement (1998), was an example of conflict resolution and negotiation which had achieved remarkable results but which should not be allowed to stand still, and that therefore dialogue between the parties remained necessary in order to resume the outstanding issues in order to move towards a lasting and stable solution. the resolution also stresses the need to promote economic and social development as an element in the consolidation of the peace process.
in writing. - it is undeniable that the progress achieved to date in the northern ireland peace process is a remarkable and positive example of conflict resolution, based on collaboration, consent and the principles of equal treatment and mutual consideration and respect, which has had a beneficial impact not only on political relations in northern ireland but also beyond it. we are, however, concerned that the peace process has come to a standstill. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on all parties to the process to work constructively towards a lasting solution to the conflict and the full implementation of the good friday agreement and subsequent agreements, in the interests of a lasting peace.
in writing. - the escalation of violence in northern ireland, especially last year, as a result of the clashes caused by the flag war initiated by the protests over the withdrawal of the union jack from belfast city council, and the street clashes over the orange order parades, only serves to rekindle the historical feuds between the two communities. these events, which in no way represent the majority sentiment and attitude of society in northern ireland, where important steps have been and are being taken in the field of reconciliation, cannot become a permanent obstacle to or frustrate progress in the peace process. there is therefore a clear need to improve living conditions and to address the social and economic challenges which still plague northern irish society and are the major cause of conflict between the different communities. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution, which calls urgently for improved relations between the two sides and for stimulating economic growth and social development as key elements in consolidating the peace process in northern ireland.
in writing. – i completely agree with the text of this resolution. when two conflicted sides, as in northern ireland, are able to agree in order to reconcile and leave behind a past of violence and political conflict, it is always a step forward, not only for them, but for all europeans.
in writing. - this resolution is an important support by the european parliament for the peace process and the necessary strengthening of dialogue to achieve a lasting solution.
in writing. - it is undeniable that the progress achieved to date in the northern ireland peace process is a remarkable and positive example of conflict resolution, based on collaboration, consent and the principles of equal treatment and mutual consideration and respect, which has had a beneficial impact not only on political relations in northern ireland but also beyond it. we are, however, concerned that the peace process has come to a standstill. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on all parties to the process to work constructively towards a lasting solution to the conflict and the full implementation of the good friday agreement and subsequent agreements, in the interests of a lasting peace.
in the light of the recent events in cyprus, the commission has decided to withdraw its proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of cyprus, of the other part. the republic of cyprus has the full and sovereign right to exploit the natural resources within its eez. the actions of turkey within the eez of the republic of cyprus are in breach of international law and further undermine the continuation of negotiations for a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem. as a candidate country for eu accession, turkey should respect the declaration of the european community and its member states of 21 september 2005, including the provision that recognition by all member states is a necessary element of the accession process. it must therefore avoid hostile action against any member state in particular and respect the sovereignty of the latter over its territorial waters. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the european parliament's socialist motion for a resolution deplores the escalation of threats and unilateral actions by turkey against the republic of cyprus in relation to the eez but considers that the exploration of the natural resources by the republic of cyprus in its eez should not contradict or impede the negotiations on the reunification of the island. in this respect, it is noted that any oil and gas development should be carried out for the benefit of all cypriots. the document calls on all parties to act responsibly and constructively to resolve the crisis and in this regard urges turkey to withdraw its warships immediately from cypriot waters in order to reduce tension and facilitate the resumption of negotiations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. on 3 october 2014, turkey issued a maritime directive (navtex, navigational telex) by which it unlawfully 'designated' a large area located in the southern part of the exclusive economic zone (eez) of the republic of cyprus, almost adjacent to the territorial waters of the republic of cyprus, as a reserved area for seismic surveys from 20 october to 30 december 2014, in contravention of the united nations convention on the law of the sea. the threats of turkey, a candidate country for eu membership, against cyprus, an eu member state, which have been materialized in the movement of turkish ships and which involve an unnecessary increase in tension in the region, are threats to the eu as a whole. the high representative should demand an end to the turkish occupation of cyprus and condemn ankara's continued violations of international law under the threat of freezing bilateral relations, including accession negotiations.
in writing. - the resolution was adopted on the grounds that the latest actions by turkey could constitute a violation of the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus and of international law. moreover, in the context of official negotiations to end the conflict between turkey and cyprus, such actions are incompatible with the search for a solution to the cyprus problem and therefore harmful to the two cypriot communities.
in writing. - the escalation of tension in the waters of the republic of cyprus has necessitated a clear condemnation by the european parliament of the actions taken by turkey. the union's call for respect for the sovereignty of the member states over their waters should not be necessary at this stage, and indeed the search for and, where appropriate, the discovery of natural resources in the area should not be a source of conflict but, on the contrary, an impetus for cooperation between the countries of the area. for all these reasons, and in full support of the government of the republic of cyprus, i have voted in favour of the joint resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider that the latest actions by turkey could constitute a violation of the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus and of international law. moreover, in the context of official negotiations to end the conflict between turkey and cyprus, such actions are incompatible with the search for a solution to the cyprus problem and therefore harmful to the two cypriot communities.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the resolution because we consider that the latest actions by turkey could constitute a violation of the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus and of international law. moreover, in the context of official negotiations to end the conflict between turkey and cyprus, such actions are incompatible with the search for a solution to the cyprus problem and therefore harmful to the two cypriot communities.
in writing. - we regret the escalation of threats and unilateral actions by turkey against the republic of cyprus in relation to the eez but we believe that the exploration of natural resources by the republic of cyprus in its eez should not contradict or impede the negotiations on the reunification of the island. in this sense, any oil and gas development should be carried out for the benefit of all cypriots. turkey, as a candidate country for eu accession, should act in accordance with eu values, avoiding hostile actions towards any member state as recognition by all member states is a necessary requirement of the accession process. at the same time, we recommend that the cypriot authorities consult with their turkish counterparts on exploration and exploitation activities and share the benefits with all cypriots.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint resolution to urge turkey to withdraw its warships immediately from cypriot waters and to put an end to the unilateral provocative actions within the eez of the republic of cyprus which are causing an escalation of tension in the area. the republic of cyprus has the full and sovereign right to exploit the natural resources within its eez. the actions of turkey within the eez of the republic of cyprus are in breach of international law and further undermine the continuation of negotiations for a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem. turkey, as a candidate country for eu membership, must particularly avoid hostile actions against any member state and respect the sovereignty of these states over their territorial waters.
in writing. - the resolution was adopted on the grounds that the latest actions by turkey could constitute a violation of the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus and of international law. moreover, in the context of official negotiations to end the conflict between turkey and cyprus, such actions are incompatible with the search for a solution to the cyprus problem and therefore harmful to the two cypriot communities.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. on 3 october 2014, turkey issued a maritime directive (navtex, navigational telex) by which it unlawfully 'designated' a large area in the southern part of the exclusive economic zone (eez) of the republic of cyprus, almost adjacent to the territorial waters of the republic of cyprus, as a reserved area for seismic surveys from 20 october to 30 december 2014, in contravention of the united nations convention on the law of the sea. the threats of turkey, a candidate country for eu membership, against cyprus, an eu member state, which have been materialized in the movement of turkish ships and which involve an unnecessary increase in tension in the region, are threats to the eu as a whole. the high representative should demand an end to the turkish occupation of cyprus, she should condemn ankara's continued violations of international law, or else freeze bilateral relations, including accession negotiations.
in writing. – with reference to the tensions generated by the turkish actions in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus, i supported this motion in order to try to find a peaceful solution to the conflict and to normalise, as soon as possible, the relations of turkey with member states of the eu. this will only be possible if turkey unequivocally commits to maintain good neighbourly relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes under the united nations charter.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. on 3 october 2014, turkey issued a maritime directive (navtex, navigational telex) by which it unlawfully 'designated' a large area in the southern part of the exclusive economic zone (eez) of the republic of cyprus, almost adjacent to the territorial waters of the republic of cyprus, as a reserved area for seismic surveys from 20 october to 30 december 2014, in contravention of the united nations convention on the law of the sea. the threats of turkey, a candidate country for eu membership, against cyprus, an eu member state, which have been materialized in the movement of turkish ships and which involve an unnecessary increase in tension in the region, are threats to the eu as a whole. the high representative should demand an end to the turkish occupation of cyprus, she should condemn ankara's continued violations of international law, or else freeze bilateral relations, including accession negotiations.
in writing. - the self-proclaimed independence of south sudan does not seem to have had the intended effects on the sudanese population. fundamental issues such as the demarcation of borders, the sharing of oil revenues and the use of the northern pipeline remain unresolved. significantly rising food and water prices, lack of healthcare and infrastructure, a malfunctioning economy, chronic food insecurity and high levels of acute malnutrition have generated tensions and led to violence. a negotiated solution is needed to resolve differences peacefully and democratically, as well as a process of national reconciliation in the service of the entire population. and to do that, it is absolutely necessary to put an immediate end to the supply of arms and ammunition to south sudan and the whole region. similarly, the country's natural resources, in particular oil, must be placed under the control of the state and used by the state for the benefit of its population in general. i could not vote for the resolution because it does not cover many of these aspects, so i abstained.
in writing. - the humanitarian situation in south sudan is dramatic and the humanitarian crisis in which the country is immersed has intensified in recent months. nearly 4 million sudanese are food insecure, 1.4 million people are displaced from their homes and more than 470,000 are seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. violence has escalated in recent months and atrocious acts of sexual violence are reaching alarming levels. the ceasefire agreement signed in january 2014 and reaffirmed in may 2014 continues to be broken and peace talks have barely advanced towards a lasting solution. it is essential to establish a genuine dialogue leading to a democratic political solution and laying the foundations for building a new democratic state of law that will ensure stability and peace in the country in a sustainable way. the eu and the international community must continue to meet their commitments to the population and the democratic transition in terms of funding and humanitarian assistance. the humanitarian catastrophe that millions of people in south sudan are living through must come to an end.
in writing. - nearly 4 million people continue to need urgent aid in south sudan following the conflict that erupted in december 2013. there is an open crisis between supporters of former south sudanese vice president riek machar (deposed in july 2013) and the african country's president salva kiir. in late august, the united nations warned that four million people - including 740,000 children under the age of five - are in a situation of food insecurity with indicators that border on famine. the ratio of rape as a weapon of war has also skyrocketed. there have been several commitments signed and broken by the parties involved, to form a transitional government. the s&d resolution and the joint resolution both insist on:- a genuine dialogue leading to the holding of elections;- greater funding and ensuring access for humanitarian aid;- promoting more effective sanctions;- the eu ensuring a long-term strategy to strengthen the rule of law and good governance.
in writing. - the self-proclaimed independence of south sudan does not seem to have had the intended effects on the sudanese population. fundamental issues such as the demarcation of borders, the sharing of oil revenues and the use of the northern pipeline remain unresolved. significantly rising food and water prices, lack of healthcare and infrastructure, a malfunctioning economy, chronic food insecurity and high levels of acute malnutrition have generated tensions and led to violence. a negotiated solution is needed to resolve differences peacefully and democratically, as well as a process of national reconciliation in the service of the entire population. and to do that, it is absolutely necessary to put an immediate end to the supply of arms and ammunition to south sudan and the whole region. similarly, the country's natural resources, in particular oil, must be placed under the control of the state and used by the state for the benefit of its population in general. i could not vote for the resolution because it does not cover many of these aspects, so i abstained.
in writing. - the humanitarian crisis in south sudan is very worrying and is having dramatic consequences for the population. the european parliament's interest in this matter is welcome. however, the final resolution adopted by the european parliament not only omits important points mentioned in the gue/ngl group resolution ―such as those concerning the protection of women's rights in this conflict― but also calls for economic sanctions against the country and opens the door, through the call for the immediate implementation of the igad resolution of 7 november 2014, to military intervention. i believe that these measures would not alleviate the situation of the people of south sudan, but would only make it worse. that is why i abstained. the conflict in south sudan can only be resolved by addressing its root causes, which are poverty, inequality, social injustice and the unfair distribution of resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the humanitarian situation in south sudan, a humanitarian crisis which is part of the civil conflict between the dinka and nuer ethnic groups in the country. since the conflict began in december 2013, more than 1.4 million people have been internally displaced in south sudan, and 470,000 people have sought refuge in neighbouring countries. the political and violent situation in the country remains extremely serious and puts at risk vital humanitarian aid operations to the civilian population affected by the conflict. the eu, as well as other international and regional actors, must continue to play an active role in bringing an end to the violence in south sudan, and the ongoing negotiations in addis ababa to achieve lasting peace and stability must have our full support. the eu must also condemn and combat the serious human rights violations in south sudan and hold to account those who have committed these crimes.
in writing. - the humanitarian crisis in south sudan is very worrying and is having dramatic consequences for the population. the european parliament's interest in this matter is welcome. the final resolution adopted by the european parliament does not include important points mentioned in the gue/ngl group resolution ―such as those relating to the protection of women's rights in this conflict― but, in addition, calls for economic sanctions against the country and opens the door, through the call for the immediate implementation of the igad resolution of 7 november 2014, to military intervention. i believe that these measures would not alleviate the situation of the people of south sudan, but would only make it worse. that is why i abstained. the conflict in south sudan can only be resolved by addressing its root causes, which are poverty, inequality, social injustice and the unfair distribution of resources.
written. - since december 2013, south sudan has been experiencing a terrible humanitarian emergency with nearly 4 million people, including 740,000 children under the age of 5, in urgent need of help, and where rape has become a common weapon of war. despite the peace agreement signed a week ago, fighting between the government and the opposition continues to sow terror among the population. i voted in favour of this resolution because it strongly condemns the renewed violence and the repeated violations of human rights, because it calls for the establishment of a genuine dialogue leading to the holding of elections and for the international community to honour its commitments to the country in terms of funding. it also calls for more funding to address the humanitarian crisis, for credible, transparent and thorough investigations in line with international standards, in particular by the african union commission of inquiry, and for the creation of a hybrid special court to hold leaders accountable for gross human rights violations. i voted in favour to show my solidarity with the people of south sudan.
in writing. - the humanitarian crisis in south sudan is very worrying and is having dramatic consequences for the population. the european parliament's interest in this matter is welcome. however, the final resolution adopted by the european parliament not only fails to include important points mentioned in the gue/ngl group resolution ―such as those concerning the protection of women's rights in this conflict― but also calls for economic sanctions against the country and opens the door, through the call for the immediate implementation of the igad resolution of 7 november 2014, to military intervention. i believe that these measures would not alleviate the situation of the people of south sudan, but would only make it worse. that is why i abstained. the conflict in south sudan can only be resolved by addressing its root causes, which are poverty, inequality, social injustice and the unfair distribution of resources.
in the light of the recent events in south sudan, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the situation in south sudan is worsening. i am concerned about the situation in which the newly independent south sudan has been repeatedly plunged into waves of violence and political strife. this is causing huge problems for south sudanese society, combined with a complex humanitarian and economic situation. further destabilisation of this young state could mean not only a geopolitical but above all a humanitarian crisis of fundamental proportions. i therefore welcome the fact that the european parliament is not turning a blind eye to the situation in this african country and is trying to put pressure on other european institutions to continue helping south sudan and its citizens. a stable south sudan is in the interest of the european union.
in writing. - the humanitarian situation in south sudan is dramatic and the humanitarian crisis in which the country is immersed has intensified in recent months. nearly 4 million sudanese are food insecure, 1.4 million people are displaced from their homes and more than 470,000 are seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. violence has escalated in recent months and atrocious acts of sexual violence are reaching alarming levels. the ceasefire agreement signed in january 2014 and reaffirmed in may 2014 continues to be broken and peace talks have barely advanced towards a lasting solution. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on all parties to engage in a genuine dialogue, which is essential to achieve a democratic political solution that lays the foundations for building a new democratic state of law that will ensure stability and peace in the country in a sustainable way. the eu and the international community must continue to meet their commitments to the population and the democratic transition in terms of funding and humanitarian assistance. the humanitarian catastrophe that millions of people in south sudan are living through must come to an end.
in writing. - the humanitarian crisis in south sudan is very worrying and is having dramatic consequences for the population. the european parliament's interest in this matter is welcome. i myself was rapporteur for the gue/ngl parliamentary group resolution on this subject. however, the final resolution adopted by the european parliament not only fails to include important points mentioned in the gue/ngl resolution -such as those concerning the protection of women's rights in this conflict-, but also calls for economic sanctions against the country and opens the door, through the call for the immediate implementation of the igad resolution of 7 november 2014, to military intervention. i believe that these measures would not only alleviate the situation of the people of south sudan, but would also make it worse. that is why i voted against. the conflict in south sudan can only be resolved by addressing its root causes, which are poverty, inequality, social injustice and the unfair distribution of resources.
in writing. - after the self-proclaimed independence of south sudan, fundamental issues such as the demarcation of borders, the sharing of oil revenues and the use of the northern oil pipeline, remain unresolved. significantly rising food and water prices, lack of healthcare and infrastructure, a malfunctioning economy, chronic food insecurity and high levels of acute malnutrition have generated tensions and led to violence. a negotiated solution is needed to resolve differences peacefully and democratically, as well as a process of national reconciliation in the service of the entire population. and to do that, it is absolutely necessary to put an immediate end to the supply of arms and ammunition to south sudan and the whole region. similarly, the country's natural resources, in particular oil, must be placed under the control of the state and used by the state for the benefit of its population in general. i could not vote for the resolution because it does not cover many of these aspects, so i abstained.
in writing. - the european union must show its concern at the increase in hunger and violence in the country. greater political involvement in development is necessary for progress and democratisation.
in writing. - the self-proclaimed independence of south sudan does not seem to have had the intended effects on the sudanese population. fundamental issues such as the demarcation of borders, the sharing of oil revenues and the use of the northern pipeline remain unresolved. significantly rising food and water prices, lack of healthcare and infrastructure, a malfunctioning economy, chronic food insecurity and high levels of acute malnutrition have generated tensions and led to violence. a negotiated solution is needed to resolve differences peacefully and democratically, as well as a process of national reconciliation in the service of the entire population. and to do that, it is absolutely necessary to put an immediate end to the supply of arms and ammunition to south sudan and the whole region. similarly, the country's natural resources, in particular oil, must be placed under the control of the state and used by the state for the benefit of its population in general. i could not vote for the resolution because it does not cover many of these aspects, so i abstained.
the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. we are facing a historic opportunity to set new, if not even more ambitious, goals to end poverty, inequality and environmental destruction. after being enriched by the work of lola sánchez and also by members from other groups, mr stier's report goes along this line and contains some essential elements. we can mention, among others, the prioritization of fiscal justice, the recognition of access to health as a human right or the presence of a transversal gender approach. but perhaps the most important element - and one that underlies all the rest - is the explicit mention of fighting rampant and savage economic inequality. the 85 richest people in the world have the same wealth as half the poorest people. this is not only immoral; it is also a drag on the economy. combating inequality must be a key element in the post-2015 framework. if we don't end inequality, we're not going to end poverty. i hope that the european council will listen to the voice of this parliament and i hope that we will continue to work generously to make the post-2015 agenda something really ambitious and effective.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating mr stier on his report, which, together with the other rapporteurs, has succeeded in articulating a position which is not only the majority position in the committee on development but also one which is focused on solving the most acute problems facing humanity. in the year 2000, the international community took a bold step. this step has proved effective over time, in that millions of people have been lifted out of poverty, and other objectives relating to health, education, the provision of medical and health services have also made decisive progress. but this step is still insufficient. as noted, more than a billion people still live in poverty, and yet during this time, inequality has also increased. from the point of view of social consciousness, sometimes inequality is more bloody than poverty. in 2015, humanity faces two challenges. to respond with another 15 years to the fight against poverty and against exclusion by defending human rights, by supporting governance, by including women transversally in all objectives. in fact, without the presence of women these objectives cannot be achieved. we will also tackle the fight against climate change. paris, new york and also addis ababa are therefore three key moments in 2015 in which the european union must remain the global actor, the actor most committed to these objectives. fifteen years is, like, a generation. we have to ensure that by 2015 the generation that takes over will have left behind the traces of poverty and inequality, and that they will be gone for good by 2030.
mr president, the member states and the european commission may share responsibility for the consequences of the obvious delays in the start of cohesion policy for this period, but i think we would be wrong to limit ourselves to assessing or analysing only those delays. if there is one area where the member states and the european commission have failed, it has been - at least so far - in the design and management of cohesion policy. it was the great principle of the european integration project. one of them, at least. and today we are witnessing an almost unprecedented social, economic and territorial split in the union. let us therefore look at how we can get closer to the citizens when deciding how to implement and manage the programmes. let us apply the principle of subsidiarity better, much better, without unnecessary filters towards regions or cities or, as in our case, towards stateless nations. as martina michels said, cohesion policy will not only be simpler, but much more effective.
mr president, commissioner, you have been in office for 21 days and therefore you cannot be blamed. but cohesion policy does not have a hundred days' grace. it is not, above all, because there is a backlog and because cohesion policy is sometimes the only instrument available to deal with the problems of the crisis, employment and development in certain places, in certain territories. we are talking a lot about the need to mobilise resources to deal with the challenges we face in europe. but we have instruments in our hands whose delay is having consequences for regions and cities. there is a problem of unpaid debts which has already been discussed. there are co-financing issues that are on the table. cohesion policy cannot wait. the commission, the college of commissioners, must be applied to respond to the challenges we face. and of course, to respond to the challenges - especially in these times of crisis - is to respond to the deficits that cohesion policy currently has.
mr president, there is no doubt that the european union's primary objective is to promote democracy, the rule of law and human rights in the rest of the world. however, the necessary diligence is not always exercised in the face of abuses by governments which use for military and repressive purposes products, technologies or software designed for civilian use and which, unfortunately, can be used for the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. with regard to the constant technological development, we have seen a great deal of evidence that shows the urgent need to adapt european legislation and to close any gaps we may have in this respect. we are facing a very serious problem, with serious consequences that may still be acute. i think we agree on that, too. and i believe that we cannot allow technologies and software developed in the european union to be used by police and repressive military regimes to contribute to repression or human rights violations. we need modern and flexible european legislation. you said it, it's true. and we need to correct the discrepancies that exist between member states. but we need it now, commissioner. i have not heard in your speech a commitment to a timetable for all that was covered in the communication of last april. seven months have passed and we need a firm and concrete commitment in this parliament that this concrete legislative initiative is going to take place now.
madam president, mr timmermans, i would first of all like to stress the special importance for smes of a proper impact assessment of european regulations by the commission. in catalonia, three years ago, the catalan government passed five laws to reduce red tape for entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, since they are often the ones who face the greatest difficulties in adapting to new legal and administrative requirements. and let us not forget that they employ 70% of the workers in the european union. in this respect, it is therefore essential to keep in mind the principle of thinking first on a small scale, which we have set out in the small business act. we must not forget that smes are the real engine of the european economy, as i said, and they represent, for example, in spain, 99.8% of all enterprises. they are sources of employment and wealth creation, and facilitating their activities must therefore be one of the guiding principles of our policy. the commission's commitment to regularly review the impact assessment standards with a view to improving them is therefore a step in the right direction, but perhaps not enough. in the present context we must be much more ambitious. we must have more effective guidelines which will really help to improve the formulation, efficiency and simplicity of european legislation, in the interests of greater productivity, economic growth and job creation in the union.
madam president, i would like to denounce the situation of the 1,500 inhabitants of the county of treviño. they live in a territory of 260 km2 located in the basque country, but they are part of castile and león. these people want to integrate into the basque country. they have repeatedly expressed this and have tried to do so by all possible institutional means. but last week the major spanish parties voted once again in the congress of deputies for the 'no' vote: an irrational decision, because it harms the level of public services these people receive and complicates their daily lives, but also profoundly anti-democratic, because socialists and popular in spain give priority in this matter to the result of an arrangement between warring kings dating from 1332 versus today, the here and now and the will of the people of trevi. if this problem is stuck like this, it is easy to understand why more complex political problems are being solved in spain by using criminal law and producing european crises. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, on 9 november a democratic exercise was held in catalonia, in which more than two million people expressed their views at the ballot box. the spanish state's response was again denial and threats of legal action, an undemocratic reaction which contrasts powerfully with others we have recently seen within the european union itself. the same is true in my country, euskal herria: imposition and denial of the right to decide. the spanish state is facing a profound change in its foundations, it is facing a break with this anti-democratic attitude. i would urge the european parliament to continue to work so that the right of self-determination of peoples, its recognition, is exactly what it is: a democratic principle that does not depend on the attitude of a member state and that it is, at last, a european principle.
madam president, in the sense that jon juaristi has spoken, last 9 november two million three hundred thousand people took to the streets for a day of citizen and political participation on their future. one million eight hundred thousand people voted for the independence of catalonia. the spanish government had banned this citizen participation and has urged the courts to convict the president of catalonia and two members of his government. it is incomprehensible that a member state of the european union should want to prevent its citizens from voting freely on their future. it seems to me that the time has come for the european democrats and the european parliament to openly defend the democratic rights of the catalans.
madam president, on the 22nd of this month an extremely serious incident took place in the waters off the canary islands. ships belonging to the environmental organisation greenpeace, which was peacefully protesting against the start of repsol's oil exploration, were attacked by boats of the spanish navy. this is a serious matter, ladies and gentlemen, because the right to peaceful protest and freedom of expression, enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the union, has been violated. the use of the army for public security tasks has also caused alarm among much of the population. the violence of the performance also left one of the activists injured by the impact of a propeller from one of the boats. we want to bring these serious facts to the attention of this house and demand the release of the arctic sunrise vessel, which is still being held. and we defend with all the force of reason the right of civil society to protest against the ecological crimes of its rulers. release the arctic sunrise and stop the search.
madam president, tomorrow is the international day against machismo violence and there is still a long way to go to eradicate this machismo from society. 52% of the european population are women and, according to the figures provided by the study carried out by the european union agency for fundamental rights, 62 million women in europe have suffered gender-based violence. when will we - women ask ourselves - take these policies seriously and stop being just part of the politically correct discourse? in the agency's own words, this is a human rights abuse which the european union cannot allow, cannot ignore, cannot look the other way. we therefore call on the union to ratify the istanbul convention by all states, to increase resources for prevention programmes and not to cut protection for victims, as has happened in spain, where it has been cut by 35%. so let's work together and eradicate this scourge once and for all.
madam president, next wednesday the european commission will present to this parliament the investment programme, a sine qua non of mr juncker's inauguration in july. in recent days there has been a lot of information or rumours about the source of the funds to finance these 300 billion euros. however, we have heard little about how investment projects will be selected and what the criteria will be for allocating funding to the various projects that will be eligible for funding. however, in spain, a supposed report has already leaked in which the government of the nation the government of spainprioritizes a series of investment projects without the competition of the autonomous communities and without public information, an example of the disloyalty of the spanish government. in this respect, i would ask the european commission and mr timmermans to guarantee the independence of the selection of investment projects and to require the member states to carry out a transparent selection process, involving the autonomous communities and my constituency, asturias, among them.
madam president, there is a problem, and that is that members of parliament cannot come because traffic is collapsed and, consequently, there are no voluntary absences. there are involuntary absences because, because of the pope's visit, there has been a collapse of traffic. we are therefore in an incomplete parliamentary session and this is a matter of fundamental importance.
madam president, mrs thyssen, the europe 2020 strategy was a political commitment by which the european union and the member states aligned themselves with the objectives of creating jobs, quality jobs, and eradicating poverty from our continent. today that strategy is wet paper. the combination of economic prescriptions in the face of the crisis, economic austerity and structural reforms has given the europe 2020 strategy a boost. and it has done so because we have repeatedly confused the policies that europe needed to get out of the crisis with the policies that citizens needed to get through the economic crisis in a fair way. and how can we approach those goals again, mrs. thyssen? because, of course, i agree with you, with your headlines, with the triple a social that mr juncker refers to, with putting the efficiency of the euro and the sustainability of our social model on the same level. the problem is that the commission has the power of the small print. and it has to do with the european semester mechanism, with which you, the european commission, have been promoting, through your structural reforms, that working poverty becomes structural; that millions of workers today, even though they have a job, do not manage to make ends meet. they have made job insecurity structural. they've made inequality structural. you have this week the opportunity to show us that the european commission wants to change and get back on track with the europe 2020 strategy for the whole of the european union with the annual growth study. please provide us with binding social indicators. we are not going to vote for the report. present a strategy for recovering the social model.
madam president, i note in most of the speeches the recognition of failure. stable and quality jobs are not being created and poverty and inequality are increasing, especially in the states which are either involved or subject to the surveillance of the european institutions. the commission and the council already know that their policies are the cause of the increase in inequality, unemployment, precariousness and poverty. they know, therefore, that new social objectives, although necessary, will not be achieved if they continue to be subordinated to fiscal austerity and the lack of protection of labour. in the face of the temptation to offer patches that turn out to be failures, such as the youth guarantee programme, europe 2020 must be rethinked as a whole. the role of the european institutions is to coordinate, not replace, the democratic initiative of the member states, allowing them flexibility to increase social spending, public investment, labour rights and the fair distribution of labour. otherwise, europe 2020 only reinforces the neoliberal order responsible for the crisis.
madam president, the economic circumstances we have been through have prevented us from making progress towards the social objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. however, we in the european union cannot and must not be discouraged. nor can we fall into the trap of thinking that the europe 2020 strategy has failed or that the european union does not look after the well-being of its citizens and only looks after economic growth. it is true that tough measures have been taken, but they have been taken to ensure the sustainability and viability of the union as a whole, thus avoiding a situation that would have been much worse. today, despite the difficulties, the member states can and must concentrate their efforts on achieving all those ambitious objectives which are the basis of this strategy. this is the time to renew our efforts and move forward. our objectives must be to preserve the welfare state and to create jobs. that is, to show the citizens that they are our priority. i am convinced that president juncker's growth plan will help to achieve this, but we must not forget that it is smes which are really creating jobs, and i hope that the employment, growth and investment package will clearly include all the measures we are calling for for them.
madam president, the european union's employment and social objectives have been merely a goodwill letter from the european union, because in some places they could not be further from reality. let's look at spain. one in five people is below the poverty line. five million unemployed and 7.7 million people - almost half of the employed, almost half - with salaries below one thousand euros a month. enough with the good intentions! we need action from the european union. and that means, of course, changing our economic policy to go along with our social objectives, because so far it has proven to be absolutely counterproductive with respect to our social objectives. it means placing our employment and social objectives on the same level as our binding macroeconomic objectives. and we must remember that losing the european social model - as we are losing it - is losing the soul of europe.
in writing. i have voted against this report because the protocol we are asked to approve is closely linked to the fourth railway package, which deepens the trend towards privatisation of the railway sector. i will not in any way vote in favour of privatising strategic sectors of the economy, such as rail transport.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft council decision to approve the protocol on specific issues of railway rolling stock to the convention on international guarantees in respect of items of mobile equipment adopted in luxembourg on 23 february 2007 because it is related to the fourth railway package and will encourage innovation and investment in the eu railways as the main objective of the protocol is to facilitate the financing of high value railway rolling stock by creating a strong international guarantee by creditors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of ratifying this convention because it is intended to speed up and protect the investments of railway rolling stock manufacturers vis-à-vis third country buyers or credit institutions in order to provide them with greater payment guarantees. in this way, better regulation and greater legal guarantees are promoted at international level in a market which is important for europe as a producer of this type of capital goods.
in writing. i have voted against this report because the protocol we are asked to approve is closely linked to the fourth railway package, which deepens the trend towards privatisation of the railway sector. i will not in any way vote in favour of privatising strategic sectors of the economy, such as rail transport.
in writing. - this is the ratification of those parts of the convention on international guarantees relating to rolling stock in which the union has exclusive competence. the aim of the convention is to speed up and protect the investments of manufacturers of railway rolling stock vis-à-vis third-country buyers or credit institutions, in order to give them greater guarantees for their effective payment. europe is a producer of this type of capital goods and in this respect it is interesting to promote international rules which facilitate an international market for this type of goods with all the legal guarantees.
in writing. i have voted against this report because the protocol we are asked to approve is closely linked to the fourth railway package, which deepens the trend towards privatisation of the railway sector. i will not in any way vote in favour of privatising strategic sectors of the economy, such as rail transport.
in writing. i voted in favour of ratifying this convention because it is intended to speed up and protect the investments of railway rolling stock manufacturers vis-à-vis third country buyers or credit institutions, with a view to providing them with greater payment guarantees. in this way, better regulation and greater legal guarantees are promoted at international level in a market which is important for europe as a producer of this type of capital goods.
in writing. i have voted against this report because the protocol we are asked to approve is closely linked to the fourth railway package, which deepens the trend towards privatisation of the railway sector. i will not in any way vote in favour of privatising strategic sectors of the economy, such as rail transport.
in writing. - the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements is a convention on a matter of private international law and was drawn up by the hague conference on private international law. the convention concerns exclusive choice of court agreements in civil and commercial matters. by these agreements, the two parties agree that any dispute over a particular matter will be resolved by the courts of the state they determine. in this respect, the purpose of the convention is similar, at international level, to that of article 25 of the brussels i regulation as re-enacted at european level. the provisions of the convention establish its scope, define the agreements on choice of court and regulate jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement and procedural matters. i believe that the european union should be involved in this convention, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the convention voted by parliament governs the recognition and enforcement of decisions in disputes concerning commercial transactions covered by exclusive choice of court agreements. the convention will apply to agreements in civil and commercial matters and will provide legal certainty by allowing parties to international contracts not only to have recourse to the dispute settlement forum of their choice but also to ensure that relevant judicial decisions have validity in other states parties. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - the juri committee recommends that the european parliament give its consent to the council for the ratification of the convention on choice of court agreements. the convention governs the recognition and enforcement of decisions in disputes concerning commercial transactions covered by exclusive choice of court agreements. the convention will provide legal certainty by allowing parties to international contracts not only to have recourse to the dispute settlement forum of their choice but also to ensure that relevant court decisions have validity in other states.
in writing. the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements is a convention on a matter of private international law and was drawn up by the hague conference on private international law. the convention concerns exclusive choice of court agreements in civil and commercial matters. by these agreements, the two parties agree that any dispute over a particular matter will be resolved by the courts of the state they determine. in this respect, the purpose of the convention is similar, at international level, to that of article 25 of the brussels i regulation as re-enacted at european level. the provisions of the convention establish its scope, define the agreements on choice of court and regulate jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement and procedural matters. i believe that the european union should be involved in this convention, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the hague convention on choice of court agreements, which i had the honour to sign on behalf of the european community on 1 april 2009 during the czech presidency, when i was minister of justice of the czech republic. this international convention is, in my view, of particular importance, since it will make it possible to conclude exclusive choice of court agreements, which are concluded in civil and commercial matters. these are agreements in which two parties agree that any dispute between them with an international element will be settled by the courts in the designated state. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is imputable to the state. this new convention also allows parties not belonging to the european union to conclude such contracts. the treaty will lead to an increase in the enforceability of rights and to greater legal certainty for the parties to the legal relationship, since they will know who will decide their dispute and, in addition, who will recognise and enforce such decisions. the fundamental principle of this convention is the mutual trust of the contracting states in the activities of their judicial authorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of ratifying this convention, which governs the recognition and enforcement of decisions in disputes relating to commercial transactions covered by exclusive choice of court agreements. the convention will apply to agreements in civil and commercial matters and will provide legal certainty by allowing parties to international contracts not only to have recourse to the dispute settlement forum of their choice but also to ensure that relevant judicial decisions have validity in other states parties.
in writing. the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements is a convention on a matter of private international law and was drawn up by the hague conference on private international law. the convention concerns exclusive choice of court agreements in civil and commercial matters. by these agreements, the two parties agree that any dispute over a particular matter will be resolved by the courts of the state they determine. in this respect, the purpose of the convention is similar, at international level, to that of article 25 of the brussels i regulation as re-enacted at european level. the provisions of the convention establish its scope, define the agreements on choice of court and regulate jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement and procedural matters. i believe that the european union should be involved in this convention, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it allows the mobilisation of resources for 577 workers made redundant at stx finland oy, a company operating in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 30 (manufacture of other transport equipment). this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in finland, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the globalisation fund for the finnish company manufacturing other transport equipment which has suffered the consequences of the reduction in the european shipbuilding quota which fell dramatically from 13% in 2007 to 5% in the first few years of 2013. there were a total of 577 layoffs in four months. the number of beneficiaries will be 565, of whom 87.78% are men and 12.21% women. 41.42% of those made redundant are aged between 55 and 64 and face increased risks in re-entering the labour market. the fund will enable people who want to set up a business to do so after doing an internship in an existing business.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 1 426 800 from the globalisation adjustment fund for 565 workers who have lost their jobs at stx shipyards in finland as a result of structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. while this aid alone cannot alleviate the drama of unemployment in the shipping sector in the face of the plummeting eu market share and the expansion of asia, it does provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned. the eu must show greater commitment to the future of the whole european shipping sector from finland to my home region of galicia, which is also facing serious difficulties. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance and retraining activities and incentives for business creation. we do not want to have to approve more redundancy funds, this should be the last resort for the sector.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue their social rights.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue their social rights.
in writing. - the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at the stx shipyards in rauma (fi). the total amount of the financial contribution from the egf is eur 1 426 800 for a total of 565 beneficiaries. in view of the economic and financial crisis in europe and the crisis of competitiveness in our industry, it is necessary to support the mobilisation of funds such as this under the conditions set out.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 1 426 800 from the globalisation adjustment fund for 565 workers who have lost their jobs at stx shipyards in finland as a result of structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. while this aid alone cannot alleviate the unemployment problem in the shipping sector in the face of the plummeting eu market share and the expansion of asia, it does provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue their social rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources for 577 workers made redundant at stx finland oy, a company operating in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 30 (manufacture of other transport equipment). this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in finland, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it allows the mobilisation of resources for 744 workers made redundant by the company gad société anonyme simplifiée, an undertaking operating in the economic sector classified in division 10 of nace rev. 2 (food industry). this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of high unemployment in france, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i supported the authorization of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund for the gad company, which was involved in the food industry, slaughterhouses and meat processing and which could not withstand the price pressure caused by the increase in feed prices and lower income consumers. 76% of the redundancies will benefit from the fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 918 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 760 workers who have lost their jobs at the gad slaughterhouse and meat processing company in the brittany region of france as a result of the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise counselling and guidance measures for workers made redundant by a team of expert advisers (reclassification unit) whose mission is to provide support to workers made redundant and help them find solutions to enable them to remain in the labour market and to find another job. this aid is a good aid for the reintegration of the workers concerned into employment.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue their social rights.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue their social rights.
in writing. - the egf is being mobilised in france to help reintegrate into the labour market workers made redundant by gad s.a.s in brittany (f) as a result of the economic crisis. the company is active in the food manufacturing sector. the amount of the financial contribution is eur 918 000 and it affects a total of 760 beneficiaries. in view of the economic and financial crisis in europe and the crisis of competitiveness in our industry, it is necessary to support the mobilisation of funds such as this under the conditions set out.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 918 000 from the globalisation adjustment fund for 760 workers who have lost their jobs at the gad slaughterhouse and meat processing plant in the brittany region of france as a result of structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise counselling and guidance measures for workers made redundant by a team of expert advisers (reclassification unit) whose mission is to provide support to workers made redundant and help them find solutions to enable them to remain in the labour market and to find another job. this aid is a good aid for the reintegration of the workers concerned into employment.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund, considering that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the workers made redundant to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue their social rights.
in writing. - on 19 november 2013, the european data protection supervisor delivered his opinion on the agreement between canada and the european union on the processing and transfer of passenger name record data. in that opinion, it questioned the necessity and proportionality of pnr schemes and of large-scale transfers of pnr data to third countries, as well as the choice of legal basis. i voted in favour of this report as it asks the court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties, as there is legal uncertainty as to the compatibility of the draft agreement with the provisions of the treaties (article 16) and of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8 and 52 (1)) as regards the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data. it also questions the choice of the legal basis, namely article 82 (1) (d) and article 87 (2) (a) tfeu (police and judicial cooperation) instead of article 16 tfeu (data protection).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because, as the aim of the agreement is to establish the conditions under which passenger name record (pnr) data may be transferred and used by the cbsa and to establish the way in which the data is protected, there is legal uncertainty as to its compatibility with certain articles of the eu treaty and the eu charter of fundamental rights. i therefore think it appropriate to ask the court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution to ask the court of justice of the european union to rule on the compatibility with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the agreement between canada and the european union on the processing and transfer of passenger name record data. the judgment of the court of justice of 8 april 2014 declaring the data retention directive invalid raises legal uncertainties as to the compatibility of the draft agreement with the provisions of the treaties (article 16) and of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7 and 8 and article 52 (1)), and it is therefore appropriate to request an opinion of the court of justice of the european union on this matter in order to ensure respect for the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data.
in writing. - it seems appropriate to urge the ecj to rule on the compatibility of the eu-canada pnr agreement, given the questions that have been raised about the compatibility of this agreement with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. these concerns have been expressed by the legal service of the ep as well as the european data protection supervisor (edps). the s&d group attaches great importance to maintaining a guarantor position on fundamental rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution to ask the court of justice of the european union to rule on the compatibility with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the agreement between canada and the european union on the processing and transfer of passenger name record data. the judgment of the court of justice of 8 april 2014 declaring the data retention directive invalid raises legal uncertainties as to the compatibility of the draft agreement with the provisions of the treaties (article 16) and of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8 and 52 (1)), and it is therefore appropriate to request an opinion of the court of justice of the european union on this matter in order to ensure respect for the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data.
in writing. on 19 november 2013, the european data protection supervisor delivered his opinion on the agreement between canada and the european union on the processing and transfer of passenger name record data. in that opinion, it questioned the necessity and proportionality of pnr schemes and of large-scale transfers of pnr data to third countries, as well as the choice of legal basis. i voted in favour of this report as it asks the court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties, as there is legal uncertainty as to the compatibility of the draft agreement with the provisions of the treaties (article 16) and of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8 and 52 (1)) as regards the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data. it also questions the choice of the legal basis, namely article 82 (1) (d) and article 87 (2) (a) tfeu (police and judicial cooperation) instead of article 16 tfeu (data protection).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it covered fundamental issues such as the fight against inequality, the establishment of binding rules on corporate social responsibility, an eu trade strategy with the aim of maintaining and protecting social and environmental standards, while rejecting all forms of social or environmental dumping. the report recalls commitments made in terms of development aid and calls for the creation of gender equality objectives. the text also recognizes health as a human right and the importance of access to public health services, such as family planning, among others. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because some economies are still suffering from high and rising levels of inequality, and we need another global approach to tackling poverty and hunger. the european union must also be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. this requires the definition of priority areas for poverty eradication, the fight against inequalities and sustainable development, the defence of human rights, efforts to prevent conflict, post-conflict recovery and peacebuilding and the promotion of lasting peace. the role of civil society and local and regional authorities and the mobilisation of financial resources in innovative tools must be taken into account.
in writing. - the objective of this report is to contribute to shaping the eu's position at the next un conference in september 2015. it is the latest in a series of annual analyses by the ep on how the millennium development goals have worked, how to improve them and how to make them more viable. in recent years, the world has cut extreme poverty in half, and the fight against malaria and tuberculosis has produced dramatic results. but with the aim of a new post-2015 agreement, the international community is engaged in a broad process of analysis for a regulatory framework for global development. among our main contributions i would like to highlight the objective of eradicating extreme poverty, linking development and humanitarian aid, ensuring action in failed states, fighting tax evasion and corruption, looking after the specific needs of people with disabilities and showing greater strength on health and sexual and reproductive rights, minority rights and the rights of vulnerable people.
in writing. - in 2000, the united nations adopted the millennium declaration, with targets for 2015 that have reduced extreme poverty in the world by half or combat malaria and tuberculosis in a very important way. it is now necessary to promote and support a new post-2015 framework that includes the sustainability and growth goals of the international community, guided by the united nations. the ep is discussing how to contribute to the eu position to be defended in new york at the september 2015 summit. our main contributions include:- the identified goals and objectives must continue to revolve around the same main objective: eradicating poverty and inequality;- strong language on sexual and reproductive health and rights, on the rights of minorities and vulnerable people;- the fight against tax evasion and corruption. innovative sources of funding, such as the financial transaction tax;- the objective of meeting the specific needs of people with disabilities.
in writing. - on my own behalf and in my right as representative of the spanish delegation to the eppg, we wish to state, in relation to the report on the eu and the global framework for development after 2015, that although we supported the report in the final vote today, we do not agree with it and have therefore voted against recital "0" and paragraphs 28 and 58 of the report, which refer to sexual and reproductive health and rights. these are ambiguous terms, often used to refer to sensitive issues which are a matter of individual conscience and which are beyond the competence of the institutions of the european union.
in writing. i agree with the text and have voted in favour because, throughout the negotiation period of the text, the gue rapporteur on this particular text has managed to include the following aspects which we consider key to the future development framework: a call for the framework to be universal; a strong emphasis on inequality; the prioritisation of fiscal justice and the mobilisation of national resources; a mention of the need to establish legally binding rules for corporate social responsibility of multinational enterprises; the need to meet aid commitments in terms of both quality and quantity; universal access to sexual and reproductive health and rights; and a call for an independent gender equality target, while ensuring the integration of the gender approach in a comprehensive and cross-cutting way into the rest of the development framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the eu and the global framework for development after 2015 as it provides a basis for re-examining the millennium development goals in a framework which has changed significantly since its adoption. in this sense, actions from an approach based on human rights, peace and the eradication of poverty in a framework of sustainable and responsible growth point us to a path that is certainly humanistic, with a return to the recognition of the person as the centre of decision-making that guides public policies. this is also why member states must become aware of and mobilise the financial resources needed to achieve the targets set for the period after 2015.
in writing. - the mdgs should be achieved by 2015; however, by the end of the year we are still far from meeting them, with the consequences for developing countries. we have to learn the lesson and do the right analysis if we really want to eradicate poverty and inequality in the world. i have supported this report because it covers key development issues such as the fight against human rights violations and all forms of inequality, the defence of sexual and reproductive health rights, the rights of minorities and the most vulnerable, the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud, and new forms of financing such as the financial transaction tax. i hope that this report will make a strong contribution to the establishment of the european position and that these red lines will be respected in the run-up to the un summit in september 2015.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the work of spanish civil society, calling for a framework that not only fights for the most needy in third countries, but also tackles the situation we have in spain. i therefore support a universal development framework that, in both developed and developing countries, addresses human rights violations, inequalities - including gender and disability inequalities - armed conflict and terrorism, climate change, food insecurity, lack of property rights, lack of land rights, limited access to health services - including sexual and reproductive health services - education, resource scarcity, loss of biodiversity, corruption, tax fraud and tax evasion, unemployment and crises. i hope that in new york in september the ambitions of our governments will match the needs of our citizens.
in writing. i agree with the text and have voted in favour because, throughout the negotiation period of the text, the gue rapporteur on this particular text has managed to include the following aspects which we consider key to the future development framework: a call for the framework to be universal; a strong emphasis on inequality; the prioritisation of fiscal justice and the mobilisation of national resources; a mention of the need to establish legally binding rules for corporate social responsibility of multinational enterprises; the need to meet aid commitments in terms of both quality and quantity; universal access to sexual and reproductive health and rights; and a call for an independent gender equality target, while ensuring the integration of the gender approach in a comprehensive and cross-cutting way into the rest of the development framework.
in writing. - in september 2000, the united nations adopted the so-called millennium declaration, which was followed by the establishment of specific and time-bound goals to be achieved by 2015. since then, the world has halved extreme poverty, and the fight against malaria and tuberculosis is yielding significant results. building on this achievement and with a view to reaching a new post-2015 agreement, the international community, guided by the united nations, is undertaking a comprehensive process of analysis to achieve a coherent and ambitious regulatory framework. the negotiations also resulted in agreement on all the amendments tabled by the s&d group, including those relating to: the universality of the eu's structure and leadership role; strong language on sexual and reproductive health and rights; the rights of minorities and vulnerable people; and the fight against tax evasion and corruption. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to help shape the eu's position at the next un conference in september 2015. it is the latest in a series of analyses produced annually by the european parliament on how the millennium development goals have worked, how to improve them and how to make them more viable. in september 2000, the united nations adopted the millennium declaration, which set goals to be achieved by 2015. in the last 14 years, the world has cut extreme poverty in half, and the fight against malaria and tuberculosis is yielding spectacular results. but, with the aim of a new post-2015 agreement, the international community is conducting a broad process of analysis for a regulatory framework for global development. among the main contributions of my group i would like to highlight the objective of eradicating extreme poverty, linking development and humanitarian aid, ensuring action in failed states, fighting tax evasion and corruption, looking after the specific needs of people with disabilities and taking stronger action on health and sexual and reproductive rights, as well as on the rights of minorities and vulnerable people.
in writing. - i agree with the text and have voted in favour, as throughout the negotiation period of the text as the gue rapporteur on this particular issue i have managed to include the following aspects which i consider key to the future development framework: call for the framework to be universal; strong emphasis on inequality; prioritisation of fiscal justice and mobilisation of national resources; mention of the need to establish legally binding standards for corporate social responsibility of multinational enterprises; need to meet aid commitments in both quality and quantity; universal access to health and sexual and reproductive rights; and call for a separate gender equality objective, while ensuring the integration of the gender approach in a comprehensive and cross-cutting way into the rest of the development framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it covered key issues such as the fight against inequality, the establishment of binding rules on corporate social responsibility, and an eu trade strategy aimed at maintaining and protecting social and environmental standards, while rejecting all forms of social or environmental dumping. the report recalls commitments made in terms of development aid and calls for the establishment of gender equality objectives. the text also recognizes health as a human right and the importance of access to public health services, such as family planning, among others. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the europe 2020 objectives are subordinated to the macroeconomic objectives of the european semester, which are contradictory to the former. achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy would require an end to austerity policies, which are putting pressure on wages and employment, and the launch of new, binding, number-based initiatives to create and protect jobs and to promote training, research and innovation, education, poverty reduction and the fight against climate change. we call for the europe 2020 strategy to be scrapped and replaced by a pact for progress and social justice that strengthens and uses budgetary resources to increase production in deficit countries, support smes, fight unemployment and precariousness, create jobs with rights and ensure the protection and improvement of public services. all this is not included in the resolution, so i could not vote in favour and i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained because of the absence of the term "security" in the paragraph. we are advocating a single labour market with a single contract, which reduces fragmentation and precariousness, simplifies administrative burdens and gives firms greater flexibility, while guaranteeing the safety of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because current policies focus only on economic growth without recognising the need for an inclusive and sustainable approach. this requires a more ambitious approach from the member states with clear objectives for reindustrialisation; with the presentation of an industrial plan that increases competitiveness; with dual education and the creation of an effective employment service; with a new framework between political and social priorities; with a strengthening of the youth guarantee; with the requirement for member states to focus on the 'green sector' and the 'white sector' for the creation of new jobs. the aim, as the proposal states, is that all these measures should be carried out with the participation of local and regional authorities.
in writing. the eu is experiencing an unprecedented social emergency. since 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased by 10 million to over 120 million. there are also almost 25 million unemployed in the eu-28 and many of those who do have a job do not make ends meet. that is why i voted in favour of the establishment of a minimum income for integration at european level: because i believe that the eu has a legal and moral obligation to ensure that europeans have sufficient income to cover their most basic needs. i also voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there must be a change in the european semester policies to bring them into line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, putting macroeconomic and employment and social priorities on the same level and ensuring that the jobs created in europe are of quality and with job guarantees. i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. - on 19 march 2014, the ec published a communication entitled 'balance of the europe 2020 strategy' as a basis for the review of the europe 2020 strategy to be presented next year. this communication reveals that we are further away from achieving the social and employment objectives. since 2010, the number of citizens without a job or at risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased across the eu, with 120 million europeans living in poverty or at risk of poverty. 16 million citizens need to be employed to meet the europe 2020 strategy (employment rate of 75%). the commission is therefore asked whether it intends to increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, whether it intends to set more ambitious targets for these issues in the national reform programmes, or whether it will increase the contribution of the eu budget to the achievement of national targets. the council is asked, in particular, whether it is possible to add indicators to the table of social and employment indicators, which such indicators should be considered and what the consequences would be of making them binding.
in writing. the europe 2020 objectives are subordinated to the macroeconomic objectives of the european semester, which are contradictory to the former. achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy would require an end to austerity policies, which are putting pressure on wages and employment, and the launch of new, binding, number-based initiatives to create and protect jobs and to promote training, research and innovation, education, poverty reduction and the fight against climate change. we call for the europe 2020 strategy to be scrapped and replaced by a pact for progress and social justice that strengthens and uses budgetary resources to increase production in deficit countries, support smes, fight unemployment and precariousness, create jobs with rights and ensure the protection and improvement of public services. all this is not included in the resolution, so i could not vote in favour and i abstained.
in writing. while it is true that the content of most of the points in the resolution is clearly critical to take the gender perspective into account in employment material, to argue that social aspects should be of equal importance to macroeconomic ones or that improving the economy will not necessarily lead to more quality jobs, but that improving the quality of employment has to come from policies that are committed to it, we had to vote away, as other points in the resolution underline things that, in our opinion, are intolerable. they stress that the problem of youth unemployment is due to young people not being sufficiently trained, not having leadership skills or not being entrepreneurial; that the mobility of workers must be encouraged and the labour market made even more flexible. these measures only throw the ball away, blaming young people for not having jobs, forcing workers to go into exile to find work and encouraging the precariousness of employment with more and more flexibility which, in countries like spain, we know leads to a further deterioration of the labour market.
in writing. - if we are to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and eliminate the situations of dependence of people with disabilities, it is crucial that equality be guaranteed in all areas of community policy and, in particular, in access to the labour market for people with disabilities. in this regard, the measures provided for in the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the reports elaborating on it should be adopted. as the case law of the court of justice of the eu has shown, the convention is the first legally binding international human rights instrument to which the european union has become a party. the european union is therefore bound by the convention within the limits of its competence, and the employment equality directive, as far as possible, should be interpreted in a manner consistent with the convention.
in writing. - the eu is experiencing an unprecedented social emergency. since 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased by 10 million, to over 120 million people. there are also almost 25 million unemployed in the eu-28 and many of those who do have a job do not make ends meet. that is why i voted in favour of the establishment of a minimum income for integration at european level, because i believe that the eu has a legal and moral obligation to ensure that europeans have sufficient income to cover their most basic needs. i also voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there must be a change in the european semester policies to bring them into line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, putting macroeconomic priorities on a par with employment and social priorities and ensuring that the jobs created in europe are of quality and have job guarantees. i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on employment and the social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy in view of the need to refocus european policies on achieving inclusive, sustainable and inclusive economic growth for the whole of european society. the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy are still far from being achieved and concrete and determined measures to help close the gap need to be introduced. policies aimed at reducing high rates of poverty, social exclusion and inequality need to be promoted, in line with the commission's job creation objectives, with a focus on reducing unemployment rates, especially among young people. increased eu funding is needed to reach the 75% employment target included in the europe 2020 strategy. achieving the eu's reindustrialisation objectives, innovation, research and development are vital for europe's competitiveness and for fostering growth and creating new quality jobs.
in writing. - the member states, and especially the spanish state, have refused over the last three years to give an effective response to the social aspects of the crisis, as we socialists have long been claiming. the european parliament wishes to make it clear once again that we disagree with this policy. the number of citizens without jobs or at risk of poverty and social exclusion has doubled, particularly affecting young people, women and those over 45. there are 120 million europeans living in poverty or at risk of poverty and so far we have not seen a clear strategy to solve this. what is the current spanish government doing to achieve the 2020 targets in education, innovation, employment, etc.? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet its obligations. i am voting in favour of the basic principles advocated by the socialists in order to take the necessary steps towards the europe we want to be in six years' time: a europe without precarious contracts, without false selfemployment, with quality employment, with a strengthened welfare state, and not dismantled as in the present situation.
in writing. the eu is experiencing an unprecedented social emergency. since 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased by 10 million to over 120 million. there are also almost 25 million unemployed in the eu-28 and many of those who do have a job do not make ends meet. that is why i voted in favour of the establishment of a minimum income for integration at european level: because i believe that the eu has a legal and moral obligation to ensure that europeans have sufficient income to cover their most basic needs. i also voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there must be a change in the european semester policies to bring them into line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, putting macroeconomic priorities on a par with employment and social priorities and ensuring that the jobs created in europe are of quality and with job guarantees. i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. while it is true that the content of most of the points in the resolution is clearly critical to take the gender perspective into account in employment material, to argue that social aspects should be of equal importance to macroeconomic ones or that improving the economy will not necessarily lead to more quality jobs, but that improving the quality of employment has to come from policies that are committed to it, we had to vote away, as other points in the resolution underline things that, in our opinion, are intolerable. they stress that the problem of youth unemployment is due to young people not being sufficiently trained, not having leadership skills or not being entrepreneurial; that the mobility of workers must be encouraged and the labour market made even more flexible. these measures only throw the ball away, blaming young people for not having jobs, forcing workers to go into exile to find work and encouraging the precariousness of employment with more and more flexibility which, in countries like spain, we know leads to a further deterioration of the labour market.
in writing. - it is not until the first quarter of 2010 that europe renews its roadmap for economic growth with the current europe 2020 strategy. at the equator, practically, of the time horizon of this strategy, the results seem rather poor and the challenges, on the other hand, much higher compared to the beginning of the journey, especially in terms of employability, but also in terms of well-being. in recent years there has been a complete shift in our economic policies towards austerity for no other reason than the 'moral' of moral hazard, away from the keynesianism and interventionism that have brought such good results to the us and the uk. beyond the improvements and good intentions made evident by the resolution we are voting for, we must call on the commission and the council to really facilitate a turning point in economic policies and the design of european economic governance, and to make a firm commitment to productive investment and the creation of quality jobs in order to return to growth and be able to cope with our financial debts, but also with the social deficits we have created in so few years.
in writing. the eu is experiencing an unprecedented social emergency. since 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased by 10 million to over 120 million. there are also almost 25 million unemployed in the eu-28 and many of those who do have a job do not make ends meet. that is why i voted in favour of the establishment of a minimum income for integration at european level: because i believe that the eu has a legal and moral obligation to ensure that europeans have sufficient income to cover their most basic needs. i also voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there must be a change in the european semester policies to bring them into line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, putting macroeconomic priorities on a par with employment and social priorities and ensuring that the jobs created in europe are of quality and with job guarantees. i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. the europe 2020 objectives are subordinated to the macroeconomic objectives of the european semester, which are contradictory to the former. achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy would require an end to austerity policies, which are putting pressure on wages and employment, and the launch of new, binding, number-based initiatives to create and protect jobs and to promote training, research and innovation, education, poverty reduction and the fight against climate change. we call for the europe 2020 strategy to be scrapped and replaced by a pact for progress and social justice that strengthens and uses budgetary resources to increase production in deficit countries, support smes, fight unemployment and precariousness, create jobs with rights and ensure the protection and improvement of public services. all this is not included in the resolution, so i could not vote in favour and i abstained.
in writing. - the eu is experiencing an unprecedented social emergency. since 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased by 10 million to over 120 million. there are also almost 25 million unemployed in the eu-28 and many of those who do have a job do not make ends meet. that is why i voted in favour of the establishment of a minimum income for integration at european level: because i believe that the eu has a legal and moral obligation to ensure that europeans have sufficient income to cover their most basic needs. i also voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there must be a change in the european semester policies to bring them into line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, putting macroeconomic priorities on a par with employment and social priorities and ensuring that the jobs created in europe are of quality and with job guarantees. i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. while it is true that the content of most of the points in the resolution is clearly critical to take the gender perspective into account in employment material, to argue that social aspects should be of equal importance to macroeconomic ones or that improving the economy will not necessarily lead to more quality jobs, but that improving the quality of employment has to come from policies that are committed to it, we had to vote away, as other points in the resolution underline things that, in our opinion, are intolerable. they stress that the problem of youth unemployment is due to young people not being sufficiently trained, not having leadership skills or not being entrepreneurial; that the mobility of workers must be encouraged and the labour market made even more flexible. these measures only throw the ball away, blaming young people for not having jobs, forcing workers to go into exile to find work and encouraging the precariousness of employment with more and more flexibility which, in countries like spain, we know leads to a further deterioration of the labour market.
in writing. the europe 2020 objectives are subordinated to the macroeconomic objectives of the european semester, which are contradictory to the former. achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy would require an end to austerity policies, which are putting pressure on wages and employment, and the launch of new, binding, number-based initiatives to create and protect jobs and to promote training, research and innovation, education, poverty reduction and the fight against climate change. we call for the europe 2020 strategy to be scrapped and replaced by a pact for progress and social justice that strengthens and uses budgetary resources to increase production in deficit countries, support smes, fight unemployment and precariousness, create jobs with rights and ensure the protection and improvement of public services. all this is not included in the resolution, so i could not vote in favour and i abstained.
in writing. - austerity policies are a failure that is generating more misery, poverty and inequalities in europe. with the europe 2020 strategy, european leaders committed to reducing poverty by 20 million people between 2010 and 2020. however, instead of decreasing, poverty has gone from 118 million people in 2010 to 123 million in 2013. this is totally unacceptable and states must implement policies to create jobs, growth and competitiveness, but with an inclusive, sustainable and respectful approach to people's rights. on the other hand, the unemployment rate among young europeans is alarming and concrete measures should be sought to tackle this problem directly. first of all, the budget for the youth employment initiative should be increased. it is also necessary to incorporate a specific gender pillar into the europe 2020 strategy to help reduce the still existing gender gap in europe. the collapse of the european social model and the destruction of the welfare state, which is already in danger in many european countries, must be avoided. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on employment and the social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - the eu is experiencing an unprecedented social emergency. since 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased by 10 million to over 120 million. there are also almost 25 million unemployed in the eu-28 and many of those who do have a job do not make ends meet. that is why i voted in favour of the establishment of a minimum income for integration at european level: because i believe that the eu has a legal and moral obligation to ensure that europeans have sufficient income to cover their most basic needs. i also voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there must be a change in the european semester policies to bring them into line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, putting macroeconomic priorities on a par with employment and social priorities and ensuring that the jobs created in europe are of quality and with job guarantees. i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. the europe 2020 objectives are subordinated to the macroeconomic objectives of the european semester, which are contradictory to the former. achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy would require an end to austerity policies, which are putting pressure on wages and employment, and the launch of new, binding, number-based initiatives to create and protect jobs and to promote training, research and innovation, education, poverty reduction and the fight against climate change. we call for the europe 2020 strategy to be scrapped and replaced by a pact for progress and social justice that strengthens and uses budgetary resources to increase production in deficit countries, support smes, fight unemployment and precariousness, create jobs with rights and ensure the protection and improvement of public services. all this is not included in the resolution, so i could not vote in favour and i abstained.
the rapporteur. - madam president, mr zanetti, the truth is that i have been thinking for several days about what i am going to say here today. i have been reviewing all the meetings we have had with the council, with the italian presidency, with the commission and i have been compiling all the arguments we have put on the table to defend the european parliament's proposal. because i think it's a proposal that is very easy to understand: we have to pay what we owe. the european union cannot have debts. the european union cannot be lax with its citizens, its organisations, its town halls or its students. and to defend this proposal, which is so easy, we have given them legal arguments, because article 310 of the tfeu says that the budget of the european union must be in balance. we have given them economic reasons, because it is not understandable that we should ask our states to pay their debts and we should increase ours. we have given them reasons for doing so, because it is unacceptable that we owe more than 25 billion euros in cohesion funds to the countries that are suffering the most and need it the most. solidarity reasons, and commissioner georgieva knows this very well: we cannot accept that our ngos in the field of humanitarian aid have no money to carry out their programmes. and even opportunity reasons, because we have five billion extra euros in revenue, which can help to alleviate the situation. but all these reasons have clearly not worked. thomas paine once said that 'time converts more than reason', and i think that is a perfect description of what has happened at the european council. because over time they will move up in positions, over time they will understand that we have a problem of non-payment, and over time they will understand that the multiannual financial framework, even if only partially, has parts of flexibility. we had 21 days to reach an agreement and it was not possible; so we are giving them extra time to see if we have any more converts within the council. i said earlier that when i was preparing this speech i was gathering all the arguments, but i was also trying to think of any new idea, any magic phrase, any keyword that could get the council out of that hypnosis that seems to blind them to reality. and the magic word was said to me today by mr renzi at a meeting we had: politics. that is what we need, because it is politics that will enable us to get out of this rigidity which we have today in the council. because politics is what will allow us to move forward on agreements and get out of this deadlock. the european parliament is prepared to put all policies and all proposals on the table, but we need receptivity on the part of the council. and if the council wants to make proposals to solve the problem of non-payment, we will accept them, because all we want is to be able to pay people, to be able to pay for projects and for the european project to go ahead.
madam president, the union's budgets are meager and unsocial, but they are redistributive, as things are. the richer countries contribute more and the countries with problems receive proportionately more investment. this solidarity between peoples, however small, means much more than trade union. it makes us friends and brothers, not just partners. but it also makes us stronger. an unequal europe is certainly an unjust and sad europe, but it is also a poor and fragile europe. that is why it is not only selfish and unsolidarist, but also short-sighted and irresponsible for the northern governments to try to increase the social gap, together with the union's debt, by 4 000 million. let them not then accuse the countries of the south of wanting to leave europe. the eurosceptics are them.
madam president, three impressions from the conciliation procedure. first, the council confirms its growing tendency to act as a club of states rather than as the european union. secondly, it ignores the commission, which it regards as a technical-administrative delegation. and thirdly, it is abusing the european parliament in form and substance. in the meantime, the commission is buying time for its president to present to us tomorrow his brand new investment plan, now by means of financial multipliers starting with a minimal public contribution. is it correct to interpret the whole negotiation process as predetermined to end without an agreement? this parliament will not be able to vote in favour of any new proposal which does not comply with the minimum standards it adopted at the time. first, apply the available funds 5 billion to the objective of stabilising the level of outstanding invoices in 2014. secondly, to consolidate the additional appeal for the so-called special instruments. and thirdly, to formulate a concrete and committed programme of payments for the effective reduction of the debt stock. a thorough reform of the concept of own resources, which now sounds like sarcasm, is needed. the resources are all from the member states and none from the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. karen, samantha, margaret, susan, tania, emma, ana are not numbers. they are people. these are lives cut short, the result of injustice, the result of an unequal society that has allowed one part of the population to consider itself the owner of the other part: women. the study by the european union agency for fundamental rights published this year yields shocking data. more than nine million women in europe have been victims of some form of violence. remember, we're not talking about a fringe group. remember, we're talking about half the population here. older and younger women, living in cities and in rural areas, studying, working, in or out of a good financial situation. we're talking about women. of all the women. the european union must be a place free of violence. we will not accept the excuse of a lack of competence to prevent us from taking all the necessary initiatives. the citizens will not understand that in europe we have agreed to save the banks and we have not agreed to save the lives of women. that is why today, 25 november, we are calling for the introduction of a directive against gender-based violence. the majority of this house voted in favour of this proposal in the last parliament. we believe it is important that legislation should be put in place, as has already been done in some member states. the european union cannot look the other way when the fundamental rights of such a large percentage of the population are being violated in such a heartbreaking way: millions of women who suffer violence simply because they are women. we need a comprehensive policy that takes action in all areas: prevention, treatment, police, legal, economic, social and educational measures. because women need to know that the state is protecting them. it's not their problems, it's our problems. putting a face to the violence suffered by women will help many of those who today hide behind shame and guilt to know that it is time to end the silence. and part of our work and commitment is to make visible a reality that was once considered a private matter, not a social problem. we want 2016 to be declared the european year against gender-based violence. because the decision-making process, the awareness of the citizens is fundamental, but so is the awareness of the community institutions, which must reach a greater commitment to the society they represent. today a large number of social and women's organizations are working on supporting and treating the victims. i would like to express my appreciation of your work and my demand that the community budget in this area should not be cut. we have already seen how in some countries the policy of cuts and austerity has led to a setback in the measures being promoted in the fight against gender-based violence. please, let's not forget that cutting back on policies against gender-based violence is cutting back on lives. we must also bear in mind that many of the women who do not have economic resources at the moment do not complain because they do not have the possibility of leading independent and free lives. commissioner, it is difficult to see how, year after year, on 25 november we have the same debate. we lament the injustice. we ask for greater commitment. it's time to get down to business. we can't wait another minute. let it not be one more, because then, for many women, next year will be too late. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank the members, and the members of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality in particular, for the opportunity to answer the questions relating to this very serious subject. it is an important symbol that the debate is taking place today on 25 november: the international day for the elimination of violence against women. i hope that in one year’s time i will be allowed here to speak about better results and a better situation in the field we are going to speak about. violence against women remains one of the most serious human rights violations of our time. it is deeply rooted in gender inequalities and reinforces them. it is an extreme form of discrimination. one in three women in the european union has experienced physical or sexual violence since the age of fifteen. i was myself shocked by reading the latest figures given by the fundamental rights agency in vienna. i did not know myself that the situation is that bad in the european union. i would like to stress in this place that for me, this problem is not a matter of statistics, because this concerns any individual. we had the pope here today. he spoke about human dignity. this is what is at stake in this problem, in this field: not only human dignity but lives themselves, as you have said. violence against women affects society as a whole and is also costly. parliament’s european added-value assessment estimated the direct cost of violence against women in the european union at eur 69 billion per year. it suggests that if we reduce violence by just 10%, the direct economic costs would be reduced by approximately eur 7 billion a year. tackling violence against women therefore makes economic sense too, but again i want to stress that i understand this problem as more than an economic problem, for sure. this is just an illustration of economic figures. i can assure you that i share your commitment to eliminating violence against women. this will be reflected in the new commission strategy for equality between women and men, in which there will be a chapter on gender-based violence. this strategy has been proposed by my services and by myself to be elaborated for the year 2015, and i am inviting a wide discussion on this topic under the preparatory work for this strategy. violence against women is a complex phenomenon and there is no magic wand which makes it disappear at once. if we really want to make a lasting difference then i believe that we have to address it as part of our greater common struggle for equality. our action must therefore be steady, coherent and based on several pillars. these are: legislation, awareness-raising and funding, as well as improving knowledge and data collection. allow me now to go through these instruments we have in hand. as regards legislation: the eu has put in place a coherent legal framework to prevent all forms of violence against women and to support victims. this framework now includes the equal treatment directive and its provisions on sexual harassment, the directive on trafficking in human beings, the directive against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, the directive on the european protection order applicable in criminal matters, the regulation setting the european protection order (covering civil matters), and last but not least, the directive on the rights of crime victims, which emphasises the need for tailored protection and support for victims of gender-based violence. the commission is now guiding and monitoring member states in the effective implementation of this legal framework. so this is the list of existing legislation, and the expression of the necessity to adopt new legislation may be one of the results of working on the new strategy on equality between men and women which we are going to prepare next year. prevention measures and the cross-border dimension of gender-based violence that you have raised in your question are addressed by the istanbul convention of the council of europe. insofar as the eu has competence to sign and ratify the convention, i believe we should consider eu accession to it. it is equally important that member states respect their commitments and ratify this convention as soon as possible. to date, and over four years after the adoption of the convention, 22 eu member states have signed it, but only eight eu member states have ratified it so far. so i ask all of those here who are from member states which have not ratified the convention to go to their governments, their national parliaments and their media and call for national ratifications of the first international legally binding instrument combating violence against women. the second pillar of what we can – and what we must – do is awareness-raising and funding. the second pillar of the commission’s approach to combating violence against women involves supporting awareness-raising and grassroots actions by member states, civil society organisations and european networks. for example, this year eur 9.5 million were allocated to supporting european networks and grassroots projects to combat violence against women under the rights, equality and citizenship programme. our objective is to make a real difference in women’s and girls’ lives, also by the good use of this supporting money. the commission will monitor and evaluate the ongoing awareness-raising and prevention efforts before deciding on possible future awareness-raising activities such as a european year to end violence against women. improving our knowledge of the prevalence and causes of gender-based violence is essential, because it allows the situation to be monitored across the eu and holds governments and stakeholders accountable. it also helps us to formulate and implement better policies, beyond a mere benchmarking exercise. comparable eu data shows us how to improve the prevention of violence and the protection of victims. we can learn from each other, from our successes and failures. my services are working with eurostat and the european institute for gender equality, two key actors in the area which i believe can help fill these gaps. as a follow-up to the directive on the rights of crime victims, eurostat, in cooperation with national statistical offices, started in 2014 to collect more detailed crime data recorded by the police and justice systems. the results, disaggregated by sex, will be published in 2015 and will constitute a step forward in our efforts to better understand gender-based violence. however, to complement police records, comprehensive and in-depth surveys are necessary. the already-mentioned fundamental rights agency survey paved the way in this field. it is now considered the gold standard, and we should be proud of this achievement. however, we cannot stop here and now. we need to repeat the fundamental rights agency survey again, and we will make sure that such surveys are conducted at regular intervals to detect new trends and gaps. in my view we need to use existing tools more effectively rather than establishing new bodies like the european observatory on violence against women. instead, we need an orchestrated effort from all relevant bodies, making full use of the existing expertise. as you know, the commission will adopt a new strategy on equality between women and men from 2015. gender-based violence will be a priority of this strategy. i am committed to addressing new forms of violence emerging in an increasingly connected world, such as cyber violence and harassment. while new means of communication and technology offer great opportunities in combating violence against women, they can pose a new threat to the security of women as well. the most effective course of action will be determined and integrated in the new commission strategy on equality between women and men. this strategy must also include actions to engage men in combating violence against women, raising their awareness of the issue but also engaging them as actors for change. only by working together will our efforts be fully effective. finally, i would like to engage with you and listen to you and other stakeholders when developing this new strategy.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, since i came to this parliament, defending victims has been my priority and will continue to be so wherever i am. today it is the women of europe who are victims of violence who are asking us to speak with one clear voice. we are called upon to join forces to raise awareness in society of the magnitude of a problem which affects not only europe but the whole world. violence against women does not distinguish between rich and poor. it crosses all barriers: home, school, work. there is no refuge for those fleeing from that aggressor, sometimes so close. more than a third of european women admit to having suffered some form of violence simply because they are women, with the resulting physical, moral and sexual harm. the countries of the union must work together towards the total elimination of violence against women, and for this we need a common strategy. i worked on this as rapporteur on the european order for the protection of victims, and today we have a legislative instrument capable of recognising a restraining order in any country of the union. but i am not satisfied as long as the number of women and girls who are abused, raped, trafficked, women whose freedom and dignity are trampled on, continues to grow. as the holy father has told us today, we must put the human person at the centre, because today and every day we must put women at the centre of our work and do so in order to achieve a safer, more dignified and more just europe. we owe it to all the women who were killed, we owe it to their children, and we owe it to their families who are still grieving. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. of course, i totally agree. i am glad you asked that question because it is also a matter of education which i have not had time to mention in the last minute and a half. it is a problem whose solution must also start with men. and it's an education problem and it's the men we have to make aware of first. it is men who should be the most numerous on the committee on women's rights and gender equality, and it is men who should be fighting this problem as much or more than we are.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner jourová, we are shocked to learn that one in three women in the world - and yes, european women too - will suffer sexual, physical or psychological violence at some point in their lives simply because they are women. however, the reality is far worse than the shocking figures we know, because only a third of the victims report it. the question is, again, what can we do? i am going to propose to you here and now, and i am also going to propose to you, that we do something immediately, radically concrete, revolutionarily effective: ratify the istanbul convention. it is the first integrated and legally binding document that establishes that violence against women and domestic violence is a serious attack on human rights. the istanbul convention is a unique instrument, committing each state that ratifies it to detect, prevent and eliminate violence against girls and women in all its manifestations, from domestic abuse to forced marriage, female genital mutilation or trafficking for exploitation. a comprehensive legal tool already exists which requires the protection of victims, the adoption of legislative and punitive measures against perpetrators and the development of effective equality policies. it's in effect since august 1st, it's ready and at our disposal. what are we waiting for to adopt him? to date, only eight member states have ratified the istanbul convention: spain, portugal, italy, france, sweden, denmark, austria and malta. fourteen have already signed and are in the process of ratifying. but today is a good day to ask bulgaria, estonia, ireland, the czech republic, cyprus and latvia why they have not even signed it yet. today is a good day for this parliament to call unequivocally on the commission to accept this mandate and on the new latvian presidency to take a firm lead in this indispensable process from january onwards. as a reference point in the defence of democracy and human rights in the world, it is essential that europe has a unanimous voice; unanimous in rejecting, persecuting and punishing violence against women; unanimous in the quality public debate that explicitly and decisively incorporates men, such as dr mukwege, for example; and unanimous in promoting and implementing political and legislative measures that end the inequality that persists and that we are ashamed of, the inequality that is at the root of violence against women. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. the pope spoke to us this morning about dignity, about transcendent dignity. i believe that dignity is above all things and talking about the dignity of people, of course, has to do with the majority of the population. the majority of the population are women and the pope has spoken expressly that there is nothing above the dignity of persons.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, commissioner, it is not often said, but i do want to say it. inequality and the society of inequality that we live in is a clear driver of the growth of violence. and the suppression of public services and the cuts are, right now, a problem that is generating this upsurge in violence. i will not repeat the figures already given by many of my colleagues, but i do want to say that today, 25 november, it is important to stress that we still lack a specific legislative instrument to combat violence at european level. you have said that we will of course include references and instruments in the gender equality strategy, but we do not have a specific legislative instrument and i hope we can have one. i also have to say that i didn't like that you said that the gender violence observatory didn't seem like a good idea to you. i think it is very necessary in view of the situation we are facing. and as regards the istanbul convention - i share your view, commissioner, that it is important for all the member states to ratify it - i have to say that the convention does not replace, nor does its ratification replace, the fact that we need a specific legislative instrument at european level. i would therefore like to commend and ask you to promote the creation of this instrument, which we need at european level, from the position you now occupy.
madam president, no matter how hard they try to destroy everything inside us, they have not succeeded in destroying anything inside me. i won't give up. as long as i can keep walking, i'll hold on. i will find the strength within me (enisa, survivor of war rape in bosnia). indeed, gender-based violence is a global pandemic and a violation of human rights. it can take many forms: economic, physical, psychological, material, sexual, trafficking in women, forced marriage, child marriage... one third of women in the european union accept and say they have been victims of gender-based violence at some point in their lives. particularly concerning are the behaviours of teenagers and the new harassment with new technologies, cyberbullying. teenagers are digital natives, and often teenage girls themselves are unaware of this cyberbullying. 2.6 billion women and girls live in countries where rape is not specifically punished. and, of course, poverty increases the risk of violence. that is why a european strategy that can harmonize the systems of the 28 countries of the union is so important. the european year against violence against women is also important because it really shows that this is a problem in which the whole of society has to be involved. we are calling for prevention, policy, protection, persecution, benefits, partnership, in short, to break the silence. my final words are for the most vulnerable groups: gays, lesbians, transsexuals, intersexuals, immigrants, the disabled and girls.
europe needs all its partners to share a common ground on the ethical, legal and material assistance we provide to victims of violence against women and the often accompanying assistance aimed at minors. there is no european legislation on this because we do not have the consensus we have reached on other crimes, such as terrorism. we miss the same unity in the face of gender-based violence - a consequence of inequality - and ideas about possession and violence that are firmly embedded in the subconscious of many europeans. we do want european legislation, comparable statistics and shared values. no european state can continue to treat this matter as a private matter. the absence of active policies or failure to include the fight against gender-based violence in the agenda of a state is in breach of the treaties. would you be prepared, commissioner, to punish the governments for this?
madam president, today is the international day against gender-based violence and i want to start by saying that i miss the opening of this session with a solemn act, an act by the european parliament, as perhaps i also miss that this part of the session was presided over by a president, to sensitize the rest of the colleagues. this is a matter of the first magnitude, of murders, of attacks on the dignity, on fundamental rights, on the human rights of women. and we must be aware that we are all accomplices by action or omission. we are also guilty of passivity and neutrality in relation to gender-based violence is not possible in the europe of the 21st century. commissioner, throughout history europe has led the way for the rest of the world in achieving a fairer society. we cannot afford to give up leading this challenge and i would ask you to lead an effective commitment by all member states to the implementation of a directive.
madam president, we must deepen political and civic agreement and commitment to move towards living spaces free of sexist violence. this must be a priority and a permanent feature of the political agenda of any institution, including, of course, this parliament, although i do not know whether this image reflects this or whether we are really aware of it. these are not isolated or exceptional acts. it's a political problem of the first order. machismo violence is an expression of the patriarchal system, its most serious consequence or representation. but that violence, which is of course also ideological and verbal, is embedded in the existing social order, that is, it is structural. an entire system supports, protects, sustains and enables this kind of violence. it is clearly a powerful means of maintaining power relations between men and women, so i would like to focus on the need for social transformation based on equal relationships in all spheres of life. it is absolutely urgent.
member of the commission. - madam president, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this valuable, important discussion. i take a lot of inspiration and strength from it for what i am going to do in the commission. you are calling for a new directive. i have experience. if i promise here a new directive, it will then be a good excuse to wait for the new directive. i do not want to wait, because this is the time for action. we have other instruments in the meantime, before we decide whether to adopt a new directive, to do many things using the instruments i spoke about before. i will push for the ratification of the istanbul convention. that is clear. we will work on the action plan as the plan for real action. there will be solid, robust analyses, proposals for legislative and non-legislative steps, a time-frame, finance and responsibility. you can rely on me. this is something we can do and we will do over the next year. we need to have a permanent campaign concerning the media as well. we did not speak much – or indeed at all – about provocative advertisements and the abuse of women in this commercial sphere. this is something that is forming the idea that it is normal to abuse women. but this is not normal. i will finish with this last comment, because i know we have a shortage of time. it will be a little personal. we spoke about statistics and said that every third woman experiences violence. i will do my ‘coming out’ here. many years ago, i had experience of violence being carried out against me, and many times in my life i was subjected to verbal harassment. i do not want you to experience the same, dear ladies here, but it would be interesting if we could express ourselves – we who are now influencing the situation and can help the situation with our own experiences. it was many years ago, and i remember feeling that it was sort of normal and it was my shame, but this is – and must be – the shame of those who commit violence, and not the shame of the victims. (applause)before we alert men to change their behaviour, we should impress this upon women: please do not accept this as a normal situation. help us in our attempts. i will finish with this, and i look forward to cooperating with you, because this is a real, serious problem that we have to deal with.
in writing. today is the international day against gender-based violence. according to data from the eu agency for fundamental rights, one third of women in the eu have experienced physical or sexual violence at some point since the age of 15. only six european countries have adequate legislation on this, according to the council of europe. this means that european women who are victims of gender-based violence have different levels of protection depending on their country. we cannot allow this; women have the right to be covered and protected at the same level in all eu countries. and the european commission, with its attitude that it is not necessary to present a legislative proposal on prevention measures at european level, is denying us this right and looking the other way in the face of this social scourge. this year marks the tenth anniversary of the spanish comprehensive law against gender violence, which is considered by experts to be one of the most advanced in the world. all member states should move in this direction and, from the ep, we demand once again the imminent need for a european directive that equally protects all women and girls who are victims of gender inequality.
in writing. violence against women is the most widespread human rights violation in the world, affecting all strata of society, regardless of age, level of education, income, social position and country of origin or residence. we're not talking about a marginal group, we're talking about half the population. the european union must be a place free of gender-based violence: one in three women has been the victim of some form of physical, psychological or sexual violence, and seven women die every day as a result. we cannot accept the commission's use of the lack of competition as an excuse. the citizens will not understand that european leaders have agreed to save the banks and are unable to agree on measures to save the lives of women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a comprehensive european strategy is needed, covering all areas: prevention, treatment, protection and police, legal, economic and social measures, not forgetting education.
in writing. every day, seven sexist men murder women. every day, sexist men use multiple forms of violence against women every day, governments and institutions, including in the european union, are drafting and implementing laws that are violent against women, because they criminalize us, for example, laws that limit or prohibit the right to abortion. the multiple feminist struggles have slowly brought about the passage of laws against violence, for equality, but it is still not enough. often these laws are passed because it would not be considered good in our environment to reject them, but then they do not move forward because there is too much laxity in their implementation, not enough funds are allocated to them, or they are simply forgotten. some say that at this rate, equality will not be possible for another 500 years. i think we have a responsibility to act so that these forecasts are reduced considerably. ending patriarchy is indispensable to ending this situation. that is why i propose that the european commission should take the feminist agenda and perspective as the basis for all its policy making. only then will we achieve equal rights for men and women and an end to gender-based violence.
in writing. violence against women is the most widespread human rights violation in the world, affecting all strata of society, regardless of age, level of education, income, social position and country of origin or residence. we're not talking about a marginal group, we're talking about half the population. the european union must be a place free of gender-based violence: one in three women has been the victim of some form of physical, psychological or sexual violence, and seven women die every day as a result. we cannot accept the commission's use of the lack of competition as an excuse. the citizens will not understand that european leaders have agreed to save the banks and are unable to agree on measures to save the lives of women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a comprehensive european strategy is needed, covering all areas: prevention, treatment, protection and police, legal, economic and social measures, not forgetting education.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cause of emigration is, for the most part, poverty. migration and development go hand in hand. europeans know this well, because we have had to emigrate many times to achieve prosperity. europe must, on the one hand, regulate orderly migration and, on the other hand, increase development aid to the countries of origin of migrants. the mediterranean cannot become a large cemetery. to do this, we must reconcile the rights of europeans, which we cannot in any case jeopardize, with a proper and dignified welcome for migrants. italy is a good example of what i'm saying. italy is a good example of how more money, more euros, will not be enough if there is no unified european policy on irregular immigration. my country, spain, is the only one in the european union that has a land border with africa. every day there is a guarantee of the security of the border and also the security of the people who are trying to cross it, and that is not always easy. i have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem, i insist, is poverty. we fight against poverty. emigration is the consequence. poverty is the cause. our fight has to be against poverty, not against immigrants. europe must revolt against poverty, never against the poor. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? mr gonzález pons, very nice speech on the need for development cooperation, but i would like to know how that fits in with the fact that the popular party government in spain has annihilated development cooperation policy in recent years, dividing by seven practically to give just one example the budget of the spanish agency for international development cooperation.
the answer is 'blue card'. of the migrants arriving at the borders of ceuta and melilla, only 1.5% are asylum seekers. the rest come for economic reasons. if we do not combat economic motives, we will never be able to bring order to the emigration process. of course, we must improve development aid, but - and i stress this - without a common european policy on immigration, no country can do anything on its own. not spain, not any of them.
mr president, commissioner avramopoulos, welcome to a debate on the absence of an integrated immigration policy in europe which, unfortunately, is taking place for the first time in this parliament, but which will certainly not be the last, because we had this debate many times in the previous parliament and in all of them i have spoken out to deplore the absence of such an integrated policy, to demand that it be built, but above all to change the approach. because it starts from a biased and negative approach to immigration, which is one that closes the floodgates to regular immigration and therefore pushes too many people into irregular immigration. the mediterranean has therefore become something worse than a cemetery: it has become a mass grave of unidentified human corpses who did not have the chance to say goodbye to their own. it is therefore really sad and demands an urgent response. and that response cannot be to respond to the tragedy of lampedusa with a life-saving operation at sea, which is immediately deplored because it further encourages the illicit trafficking of people by saving lives, and to replace it with a new kind of exclusive border management. therefore, the president interrupts the speaker.
member of the commission. - mr president, i listened very carefully to the questions put by the members of the european parliament. i would like to conclude by saying that, in general, all of us, with very few exceptions, agree that this is a very important issue, with social and humanitarian implications, which is putting to the test every day the principles on which europe was born and founded. i didn't come here to make a scene. i have no such intention. i have been in this position for only three weeks, but i have known and studied the problem for many decades. if i may make a personal reference, some 18 years ago, when the first waves of illegal immigrants were gathering at the doors of europe, i was mayor of the city of athens and i do not hide from you that i was surprised. the greek state was surprised by me, as were all the states of the european south, when all those people began to knock on the door of europe, all those people who were seeking a place in the sun and a better life, driven by the difficult situations they were facing, by poverty, by war and by the tragedies of their personal tragedies. you mentioned lampedusa, which has become a symbol for the whole of europe. it was not only in lampedusa that we mourned people. there are also those whose whereabouts we shall never know because they are lost in the depths of the mediterranean and because there are many more of them than have been recorded so far by the member states of the wider region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in a few years, however, it has become one of the biggest problems in europe. it is a pan-european issue. but there is one thing we must not forget. there is a response to be given to all those who cultivate xenophobia and who unfortunately undermine, or at least try to undermine, the principles and values on which the european construction is based. mr engel said it earlier and i agree with him: we are a union of peoples and nations who have sent millions of our ancestors across the world. the european community is a great example of a great power, a great nation, a great power. our people then, our relatives and our grandparents were treated horribly, with xenophobia, with racism. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to ensure that the european union is able to play a more active role in the world. but how can that be? certainly not with a fragmented policy. nor by shifting the burden of responsibility on to each other - because such voices have been heard here. it will be done with a holistic, concerted strategy for immigration. i assure you that the political will is there. the commission is determined to adopt a new charter on immigration because the problem we face today will not be solved for many years. you know the geopolitical developments along this arc of instability that runs from tunisia to ukraine. at this very moment, on the shores of turkey, libya, egypt and elsewhere, hundreds of thousands of souls are waiting to find a way across, victims of smugglers and middlemen whom, as i told you earlier, we are determined, in cooperation with the member states, to strike relentlessly. there are countries, including my own country, greece, which have already taken very strict measures. life imprisonment is a sentence imposed by the courts of this country. i don 't want to hear about human rights for smugglers anymore . they have no right to sell out human souls. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe has reacted. the policy we are criticizing today has, in the intervening years, begun to bear fruit. some programs have been tried. all programs that fail are terminated. we support the member states in the policies they undertake; the member states are not alone. europe stands with them; the european union will show its solidarity in action, mrs wozenberg. it is a duty, because solidarity is one of the principles on which the european construction is based, with its daily social, humanitarian and political implications. here, in this sacred space of the european parliament, in the temple of european democracy, all these principles are tested daily by your own debates. the commission needs your help, your support, your ideas and your sensitivities, sensitivities which we all share, regardless of the european institution we serve. i repeat that it is our intention and will to adopt a new charter on migration which will protect human rights, fundamental rights and all the human values that were born in this place called europe and which today constitute for the whole world the most brilliant example of democracy in action. europe is attractive not only because it is prosperous but also because here one knows that one will be respected. we know where the system is broken. we know what his weaknesses are. the experience of the previous commission and of all of you in this house is not unknown to us. we feel it is our absolute responsibility to adopt a coherent, integrated policy which will respond to the problem with sensitivity, humanity and values that are confirmed in practice. the time will come when we will all decide together to clarify the concept of european borders. it will not be a border that will lead us to what was the slogan of the interwar period. you know who that slogan came from. they're not even worth naming in this room. we do not want a fortress europe. europe will not become a fortress. europe will not be driven into isolation. europe is made up of citizens of the world and it opens its doors to other citizens of the world, those who have come to us in search of a humane welcome and a better environment. they want to live with us and we want to give them that possibility but within an organized framework, according to a network of principles, values and guidelines that will be derived from our cooperation in this very area. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i hope that the day will not be long when we will all experience this result together. i really hope from the bottom of my heart that when we have the same debate at the end of next year we will have made the great leap forward and have found genuine answers to these questions, so as not to perpetuate this situation which, in the final analysis, is an affront to us and to the values on which we have based our common european construction.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all who have spoken. it was an interesting debate, not new in many respects, but it is very important that it should take place at the beginning of this parliamentary term. it is clear, as has been said and as i said in my introduction, that in this political cycle europe is either making a difference on issues such as immigration or it will have a very hard time regaining credibility in the eyes of its citizens. immigration is just one of the test cases on which we will have to see how much europe can do together. and the most integrated approach is certainly an approach which starts from the external dimension which links - as several of you have said and as the council we fully share this - development policies and security policies. it is clear that there is a direct link with the contribution that the european union as such (although we are the world's leading donor) can make to the fight against poverty. it is also true that there is a security aspect, starting with border security. i would remind you that, on the initiative of the presidency, the council set itself the medium-term objective (which was also mentioned in the debate) of establishing a european police force for the external borders. it is something which is now in the council's documents and which we will certainly have to work on in the new legislature. it is clear, and we have also mentioned this in the council's discussions, that much more cooperation is needed between the european union and countries of origin and transit. in particular, i would like to add to the debate the commitment that the council has made to work much more effectively and much more intensively on voluntary resettlement programmes, on initiatives in regions bordering on crisis regions outside the european union, together with the united nations high commissioner for refugees. it is an operational commitment which was made in the luxembourg council of ministers of the interior, and on which the council and parliament will certainly have to work much more closely together. the question of rescuing people at sea was also raised. i would remind you that the duty to assist people in distress at sea is part of international law. it is binding on all member states, it is binding on all those involved, including in the mediterranean, and it is binding on rescuers regardless of their nationality and, i would stress this, regardless of the status of the people to be rescued. it's not that if a person is an illegal immigrant, we can drown them, but if they're an economic immigrant or a potential asylum seeker, we can save them. this is a very important point to stress. obviously, then, this duty to assist people in difficulty, which is binding on the member states, also applies to operations with frontex's contribution, such as operation triton. of course, operation triton is the beginning of a shared response, it is the beginning of a shared responsibility, it is a good starting point, around which we have to build a lot more. of course we need more funding, starting with frontex. but certainly funds without new common policies cannot suffice. it is very important that in the strategic agenda for the new legislature the european council has identified the commitment to fully develop common legal and illegal immigration policies, but for this - i repeat again - trust and solidarity are needed. and if we do not rebuild within the european union a relationship of trust and solidarity between us, much of this and much of what you have also wished for will remain on paper. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. some countries complain that there are a disproportionate number of asylum seekers on their territory. other countries are complaining about uncontrolled, sometimes uncontrollable, mass arrivals of illegal immigrants on their shores. and it seems that sometimes there is a competition as to who has more rights or who has more need of common intervention. but it is clear that it is precisely the absence of a common policy, whether on legal immigration or on illegal immigration, that is imposing a disproportionate cost both on countries with very high numbers of asylum seekers and on countries whose coasts are exposed to massive irregular inflows. it is clear that in both cases the answer can be a new common european policy on legal and illegal immigration. it's not that we can continue to play the game of need, which also means the game of a lack of trust between us. it is a policy to be built up step by step, proposal by proposal. a new directive on access to the european union for research, study and voluntary work is currently being negotiated between the council of ministers and the european parliament. another piece of that common legal immigration policy which we must absolutely build, because it is obvious that all this will be built over the course of a whole parliamentary term, step by step, piece by piece. the commissioner in his opening speech referred to the commission's possible proposal for better distribution and burden-sharing. that is certainly another very important point. as regards unaccompanied foreign minors, i indicated in my introduction that we must first of all make use of all the possibilities that the existing dublin rules on unaccompanied minors allow, which have not been exploited and on which we must work, and i recall that some member states are working on legislative proposals to this end. i agree with him completely and this is one of the subjects we have also discussed in the council. it is impossible, mr president, to answer all the speeches. but surely we will either really have the courage and the will to have a common approach or we will lose everything and also lose the credibility of the european union in relation to our citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on summary expulsions and the proposal to legalise 'hot returns' in spain, by birgit sippel and juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, cecilia wikström and maite pagazaurtundúa ruiz, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, judith sargentini and josep-maria terricabras, on behalf of the group of the european liberal democrat and reform party, cornelia ernst and marina albiol guzmán, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left, and laura ferrara and ignazio corrao, on behalf of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist group (ors 2014/0059 - b8-0059/2014 - b43/2014).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what hypocrisy! it is also hypocritical for them to applaud the pope when he asks that the mediterranean not become a vast cemetery when it turns out that the dead in the mediterranean are the result of his policies. i don't know, maybe they're all going to hell. and this is what is happening in europe. and the "hot returns", which the popular party government wants to legalize, are this: a beating and for morocco. these are illegal deportations and have been going on for a decade. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they want to legalize the illegal, because the "hot returns" violate, violate, in the spanish state, the law of foreigners, the law of asylum, the spanish constitution and the penal code. and in europe, the return directive, the asylum directive, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights. they also violate the geneva convention, the refugee statute, the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights. and these deportations are for many women a death sentence, a sentence for rape or forced marriage. you have turned them into the nadies galeano spoke of. the nades. the children of no one, the owners of nothing. the nadis, they cost less than the bullet that kills them. the nadis, who have nothing, but are rich in dignity. and, oh, because the nadis are more and, fortunately, one day their fences won't be able to stop them.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to express my thanks to parliament for putting this question on the agenda. i believe that the situation in ceuta and melilla is really very important and deserves all our attention. in my capacity as commissioner for migration, home affairs and citizenship i intend to closely monitor and address the situation in ceuta and melilla while, at the same time, continuing to support spain in managing the situation at its external borders. i myself have had the occasion to discuss this matter with the spanish minister of the interior, jorge fernández díaz, just two weeks ago. i have also accepted an invitation from the minister to visit the two areas concerned in the coming months. i am satisfied that the minister of the interior himself and the spanish authorities are willing to engage in dialogue with the commission on this issue. however, the situation remains disconcerting and requires our attention. the commission is concerned by all the allegations as well as the recent proposals to amend the relevant legislation. the commission is concerned by reports coming from ngos and the media alleging the summary removal of migrants from both ceuta and melilla to morocco, as well as ill treatment. we take these allegations very seriously. for this reason the commission is in contact with the spanish authorities over this matter. it is also important for the commission to know more about the procedures put in place to ensure the correct application of the principle of non-refoulement and effective access to the asylum procedures. i want to be clear on that. any border surveillance measure must be proportionate to the objectives pursued. it must be in compliance with respect for the eu charter on fundamental rights and the principle, as i mentioned before, of non-refoulement, and it must respect human dignity. in accordance with these obligations, border control must be carried out while respecting the rights of refugees and persons requesting international protection, in particular as regards the principle of non-refoulement and effective access to the asylum procedures. any cooperation with third countries must be carried out in full respect of these principles. it is necessary to guarantee effective access to the asylum procedure for those third-country nationals who are on member state territory, including at the borders, in transit zones or on the territorial seas, and who express a wish to apply for asylum. the commission is also concerned that the interpretation by spain of what constitutes an external border, and recent proposals amending relevant legislation – what some have called ‘hot returns’ – might not be in conformity with obligations arising under eu and international law. my predecessor, commissioner malmström, had requested that the spanish minister of the interior provide the commission with information concerning these draft amendments. in addition, my services have already addressed the spanish authorities at the technical level to better understand the implications of these draft amendments and their conformity with spain’s obligations under european union law. as guardian of the treaties, the commission follows closely the actions of member states, and it is the responsibility of the commission to draw attention to actions which may constitute a violation of european union laws, in particular when it concerns the protection of the fundamental rights of individuals. the commission will not hesitate to take appropriate steps where there is evidence that a member state has violated european union laws. but i am confident that the dialogue we have opened with the spanish authorities will have positive results and will lead to the necessary changes, and i am planning to accept the invitation of the minister and confirm, together with him, the improvements in such a difficult part of our common european borders.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, nelson mandela said that discrimination and arbitrariness degrade those who suffer from it, but above all they degrade those who practice or promote it. witnesses and footage attest to the unacceptable practice of "hot returns". so that everyone understands: a hot return is the handing over to the moroccan authorities of a foreign citizen, intercepted as an irregular on this side of the fence, by the forces and security bodies dependent on the government of spain. and this practice is contrary to spanish law, it is contrary to the spanish constitution, it is contrary to european law, it is contrary to international treaties for the protection of human rights and, in particular, for the protection of refugees. and the spanish government knows that this practice cannot be validated by legal reform, as long as it remains contrary to international law and international human rights law. the council of europe's commissioner for human rights, mr nils muižnieks, has expressed his opposition to this practice and his concern. the same was done by commissioner cecilia malmström in a strong letter to the spanish government. it is now up to the present commission to speak, it is up to you, mr avramopoulos, to take a clear position on unacceptable practices which are made worse by abuses which infringe fundamental rights, as we have seen in the images of people being forcibly reduced and dragged across the fence as if they had never been on spanish territory. so here we have a real test of the quality of european law, which is our raison d'être. if there is one thing that distinguishes a legal system as a civilization based on law, and that is a true test of quality, it is precisely the treatment of the other, the treatment of the different, the treatment of the foreigner. that is why it is so important that the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, should say as soon as possible what it thinks of these practices - which in our opinion are manifestly illegal and contrary to european law - and what it intends to do to prevent this legal reform from being consummated, which in any case cannot be validated, because it remains contrary to international human rights law. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. the answer is very simple. every time a member state breaches european law, the commission intervenes, and for that purpose it is the guardian of the treaties. and it is being debated in this european parliament. but you know what i'm saying? that is not only contrary to european law, it is also contrary to spanish legislation, which does not allow for 'hot returns'. spanish legislation provides for expulsions, in accordance with a regulated procedure and with a sanctioning character, which is not the case of a person illegally intercepted. spanish legislation also provides for refusal at the border, but at the points where this is possible and in accordance with a regulated procedure, but in no case does it provide for direct surrender to the moroccan authorities, which would mean ignoring or violating the procedure regulated by spanish law and which offers no guarantee, either of legal assistance, information on your rights or of an interpreter. that is contrary, first of all, to spanish law, but it is also contrary to european law and to refugee protection law, in that it does not give any chance to the percentage, however small, of those who are fleeing persecution or who deserve subsidiary protection to prove that they are in a situation which deserves protection by a member state of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, as the commissioner has said, the situation in ceuta and melilla is very worrying from a political and human point of view. although it does not represent the majority of irregular entry into spain or the european union, it is of concern to us because the situation in ceuta and melilla is deteriorating. time passes and one commissioner after another is asked the same question as we asked you today, mr avramopoulos. he has replied to us 'as a guardian of the treaties' by saying that the management of immigration and borders must be done with strict respect for human rights and, we would say 'even' also, for the working conditions of those who protect them. the government of my country intends to legalise 'hot returns' - which it calls 'refusal at the border' - and thus integrate into the spanish legal order on immigration a practice that could violate the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. you have spoken of getting to know the ground, of dialogue, of the necessary changes... we are, in any case, continuing the debate on the previous point, mr avramopoulos. the spanish governments have failed to guarantee the inviolability of the border, despite the use of deterrent methods such as concertinas, and border staff work in difficult conditions, sometimes with unclear orders. in any case, we act as a matter of urgency. we got a wall, we're gonna make a moat. in the long run, there are no possible borders for the desperate. there are no shortcuts to the treaty either. the change in the law will not solve the problem, but it will remove the right of immigrants to a treatment with legal guarantees and the possibility of applying for asylum at the border. the european union must be involved in the situation at these borders and ensure that the challenges are very great, be a guarantor of human rights, support spain so that it can manage the border effectively and fairly, taking on the establishment of safe corridors for asylum, the transnational management of entry into the european union and, above all, we must act in development aid, ensuring the effective use of european funds. we are still in the previous debate.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president: we entered melilla but were stopped by the civil guard. we were beaten with batons for five to ten minutes. they handcuffed us and then opened the gate of the fence and handed us over to the moroccan forces. then, there, they beat us with sticks, forced us to lie face down on the ground without removing our handcuffs and we remained on the ground for an hour while they beat us. joseph is cameroonian, he's my age, and as he's counting this, he has a swollen eye and he's lame. commissioner, your predecessor wrote a very strong letter to my country's minister of the interior very recently denouncing this practice, which has been so common - indeed, for more than ten years - as illegal. the rules in the european union prohibit countries from forcibly taking people to territories where they would be exposed to inhuman and degrading treatment. well, everyone knows that, even if you lack proof. there are videos, there are photos, there are testimonies of all kinds. in spain they are given this treatment directly and then dragged through the fence like a garbage man, so that they can continue to be treated as such on the other side. what about us? what are you going to do, commissioner? what will this parliament do? what is a parliament that does not care about the application of its own laws but is a very expensive circus?
on behalf of the green group, mr president, commissioner, i think you are obliged to act now for a very simple reason. as my colleagues have already said, commissioner malmström sent a letter to the minister of the interior on 15 october last, in which she said that such a practice of 'hot returns' was a violation of european union law. i didn't say that, the letter said that. and the letter also mentioned which laws were being violated: the schengen borders code, the asylum procedures directive, the charter of fundamental rights. so, here the question is very simple. if the commission has acknowledged in writing that 'hot returns' are not in accordance with european law, will you allow nothing to happen, for a state to make it into national law without you acting? i say this because it would create a very worrying precedent in the application of european legislation in all the member states. i do not think you want to allow legal vacuums to be created in the european union at this time in which european law does not apply. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i believe you have no choice but to act and prevent that from happening.
mr president, yes, i too will quote the pope. this morning you said 'appropriate legislation to ensure the reception of immigrants' and i say 'amen'. i mean it. the spanish aliens act, which has been amended five times, has seven legal forms: refusal of entry, entry ban, return, compulsory departure, expulsion procedure, readmission and entry restriction. i declare that it is a guaranteeing law - very guaranteeing - which provides for legal assistance, interpretation, hearing, reasoned decision of the competent authority and appeal. on the other hand, the community law invoked: article 77 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that 'the union shall develop a policy whose objective is to ensure ... the control of persons and the effective surveillance of borders'. ceuta and melilla are considered to be the union's land border on the african continent and, in addition, they are subject to extraordinary migratory pressure. the irregular entry of immigrants into ceuta has increased by 73% and these borders have been violently stormed by 17 000 people. the contents of the oral question, which are full of partial or singular interpretations and are essentially uninformed, are subject to a very singular judicial decision in one case and, in another, which we are essentially discussing here, to intentions. there's a debate about intent here. look at the science and the politics of the issue. i believe in international protection and i stand for it - and so does my country - but access to international protection is subject to community rules. i want a common asylum, i want a common european asylum system (ceas), but here we have a majority group - except for the 1.5% who are seeking asylum - who are not asking for asylum, but are storming the borders, as has been shown. i also believe in subsidiary protection and rejection - let me be clear - of any action outside the law, whether it takes place in spain or in any other country. border rejections, mr president, are covered by four rules: a community directive, the schengen convention, the spanish penal code - in articles 89 and 96 - and the frontex regulation. i, as the house knows, never refer to immigration as "illegal", never. i never give any immigrant a criminal dimension. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? mr díaz de mera, look, according to european legislation, anyone who comes to european territory has the right to be heard. and if you're an asylum seeker, you have the right to have a whole process go through to see whether or not that person deserves to be granted asylum. in all the images in ceuta and melilla you can see how the civil guard catches people who have already entered spanish territory and these are automatically expelled from european territory. in that case there are only two explanations for that: the first is that the government considers ceuta and melilla to be neither european nor spanish territory - which, if i were to defend it, would seem a bit surprising to me - and the second is that all the procedures that are established in this area should not be applied. in that regard, i would like to ask you what your opinion is on that.
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you very much, mr president. i'm happy to answer such a thoughtful question. i do not know if the answer will be up to the question, but in any case, i will answer it. no, no, i'll answer that. you look, mr. urtasun. everything you say is judicialized. a question which has been brought before the courts and is still pending a decision can in no way be a question which is being debated in a house such as this, where it seems, more than anything else, that we are not in the presence of a political debate, but that we are in the presence of a madhouse. what is a horde? a horde is god's judgment. well, here's a big court, very unique court, divided into two big groups: three and the rest. what's the point? to judge intentions and to judge cases that are subject to judicial jurisdiction. that's my answer, with a plea for your consideration.
mr president, as has already been said here, the spanish government is violating all existing and future legislation by summarily expelling people, without asking where they come from or where they are going and, of course, without asking whether they wish to seek asylum - and, as has already been said, this is another of the great victims of this waste in the european union. the repression by the spanish and moroccan security forces has caused the death of dozens of people. how many more must die? i repeat the question which has already been raised here: what further evidence does the european commission need? the spanish government now says that it wants to legalise summary expulsions and this is very serious, and i do not yet know what the european commission will do about it, because i want to assume - i want to think that at least - that these summary expulsions would still be illegal in the european context. we talk about people and it seems like a lie. the european commission must do much more than simply accept the cooperation pantomime offered by the spanish government. you must act.
mr president, we must remember that in spain there have already been many dramatic acts of violence against immigrants, with very serious consequences for them. this is not a matter of my intentions or my interpretation. these are facts. now, the spanish government wants to reform the law on the rights and freedoms of foreigners in spain so that foreigners - obviously the poor - can be expelled without the necessary legal procedures, and that is not done either to protect the state or to protect internal order. these are illegal expulsions, certainly in contravention of article 3 of the spanish constitution and all fundamental rights. the spanish government wants to legalize the illegal. that should not be possible in a member state of the european union. my group in this house is opposed to it and i myself reject it. i hope the commission will do the same.
mr president, this is certainly a matter of state because we are talking about people, but we are also talking about borders. ceuta and melilla have a geographical, political and migratory uniqueness unlike any other territory. the world's greatest inequality is concentrated there in just a few kilometers. it is the only external land border of western europe. it's the only border in africa. the spanish government is therefore, in accordance with the law, trying to strike a balance between the undeniable humanitarian dimension of the situation of millions and millions of human beings who risk their lives every day in order to find a better life and the respect of the whole range of fundamental rights, which must certainly be combined with the undeniable responsibility of any state with regard to border control. it is consistent with the very idea of the state, as recognized by the organic law on state security forces and bodies and also by the schengen borders code. i have to say that the spanish government applies the principles of timeliness, proportionality and expediency, and the protection of the integrity of immigrants always prevails in any action. as for the right of asylum, it is not being violated. the united nations high commissioner has congratulated the spanish government on the creation of offices and units for asylum seekers and those seeking international protection at the borders of ceuta and melilla.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr avramopoulos, despite what some people have been saying lately, the images are clear, the news is clear. 'hot returns' are common in the autonomous cities of ceuta and melilla. and they are doing so thanks to the complicity of the spanish and moroccan police, who are acting outside the law. a moroccan policewoman, let us not forget, repeatedly denounced for her human rights violations. any attempt to legalise or tolerate such returns means abandoning returnees to a government that does not respect their rights. as my colleagues from the caballas coalition in ceuta, whom i have the honour to represent in this house, say, these returns ensure that human rights end in algeciras. the return of refugees will not stop the exodus of a desperate african population, without any prospect of a future, a victim of war and hunger. europe must condemn these practices without reservation and must once and for all commit itself to a joint, coordinated immigration policy, in which the right of asylum, the free movement of persons and the guarantee of human rights are given priority. mr avramopoulos, you said you were going to visit the city of ceuta. i invite you to talk, to converse, to receive the people of the caballas coalition, the second political force in the city. will you meet with them? will you know his side of the story? you know your work with these people and this problem? i'd love for you to say yes. i'm sure they'd be very happy.
mr president, the situation we are discussing today is so complex that only joint, responsible and solidary action by all the countries of the union, in cooperation with third countries from which immigrants come, can make us move towards the goal that we all - and i repeat, we all - want to achieve. that goal is nothing other than to tackle immigration with respect for two important words with capital d, which are human rights and the dignity of people who see europe as a paradise that so often becomes a hell. or is it that the dream of so many women and girls who come deceived by mafias does not turn into a nightmare when they have to practice prostitution? and that's just one example. behind every person is a story, often of frustration and pain, due to the cruelty of the traffickers, the main enemies of immigrants. we must stop being hypocrites, ladies and gentlemen. we cannot talk about controlling immigration flows without providing the means to do so. the constructive thing would be to help those countries which are overwhelmed by the pressure of migration and which, by accepting the schengen code, are trying to fulfil their obligation to offer their citizens more secure borders. because let us not make a mistake: in my country, spain, a person who wants to apply for asylum can do so legally. what our legislation and no european directive covers is that borders are invaded by force. nothing will get better if we continue to blame each other, because governments change, ladies and gentlemen. we too, members of parliament, come and go. but the human drama of immigration will remain there as long as we do not face it with the necessary realism, without the political opportunism that we are sadly seeing here today.
mr president, i would like to propose that we send the spanish minister of the interior pope francis' speech this morning. in this way, he will know that the concertinas and the wounds that they produce - we agree on that - the beatings between barbed wire or the shooting at people who were trying to reach the shore on february 6, 2014 are policies that fill the mediterranean with corpses, because they are policies that are based on injustice, that produce violence and that are opposed to the values of the european project. legalising hot-rodding clearly violates the charter of fundamental rights - and i will not mention commissioner malmström's letter again. but, in case the papal arguments fail, i would ask you: does the commission believe that an infringement procedure for abuses already committed would allow spain to understand that it cannot legalize the expulsion from european territory, without any legal guarantee, of people fleeing poverty, by means of domestic rules? i would like you to answer me, commissioner.
member of the commission. i've heard your views on the seriousness of the events. in my introduction i set out the commission's line and policy, the steps that have been taken and those that are to follow. i would also like to stress that i will cooperate and work with everyone, both with the european parliament and with the member states, without suspicion and without prejudice, on the basis of the same principles which i believe that everyone in this area respects and demands to be respected. i can assure you, mr maria, because we have already discussed this in a previous debate, that it is our political decision to adopt a holistic, coherent and clear immigration policy based on principles. that's where we're headed. i am sure that the spanish authorities will give us clear, convincing and reliable answers to the rumoured amendment to which you have referred. i am optimistic that the situation in this region will improve immediately. i repeat that spain is not alone, nor are any of the other countries under enormous pressure, and you know that there are many of them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the member states are able to take appropriate measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. we have opened a dialogue and hope that it will produce the desired results. based on the results of this dialogue, we will proceed with our next moves. as i said earlier, i have indeed accepted the invitation and preparations have already begun for my visit to spain, and specifically to ceuta and melilla. i would like to convey a double message: that spain is not alone and that all of us who welcome asylum seekers or those who have come as migrants to our external borders must do so in the name of europe, respecting, honouring and applying common principles.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
in writing. spanish borders in the mediterranean are subject to extraordinary migratory pressure. we all understand the reasons why thousands of people try to cross our borders every month, but it is also true that all member states have a migration policy according to which access to the european union is not unlimited. the spanish police have a difficult task: to prevent the illegal entry of waves of immigrants who sometimes use violent means. it is true that their action must be proportionate and in accordance with spanish and european law; it would also be necessary to have stronger support from the european union for the control of what are still its borders, and an explanation of what is meant by 'hot return', since at the airports of all european capitals those immigrants arriving by plane from africa who do not meet the requirements for entering the country are returned, without this fact having given rise to any complaint, despite the fact that airports are the national territory of the member states.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020 by marita ulvskog, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000075/2014 - (2014/2861(rsp)) - b8-0034/2014.
mr president, precarious employment and the exclusion of trade unions from decisions affecting health and safety at work are risk factors which the commission does not seem to take into account. despite the disproportionate destruction of jobs in high accident sectors, work accidents and fatalities have increased in the last year. and they will continue to do so unless the institutions for workers' representation and recruitment security, as well as labour inspection measures, are strengthened. i also regret the commission's lack of ambition in the absence of reliable statistics and the profound changes in the labour market. there are many areas where active and specific interventions are needed. on the contrary, the commission seems indifferent, even in the implementation of existing legislation, opting for laxity and deregulation, as it has already done in other related areas such as the protection of chemicals. this position once again distorts the meaning of work, treating it as a cost rather than as a space generating rights and guarantees.
member of the commission. - mr president, i want to thank the committee of employment and social affairs for giving me the opportunity to stress the importance that the commission attaches to effectively fighting any form of discrimination in the labour market and beyond. this engagement is not new. the union adopted in the past a comprehensive framework for tackling discrimination and ensuring respect for fundamental rights to equal treatment throughout the union. this framework includes the employment equality directive, the directive on racial equality and the directives on gender equality. but to provide full effect, directives must be properly implemented in all member states. the implementation report issued in january this year highlights, indeed, that more needs to be done to ensure effective implementation of the directives on employment equality. member states have put in place implementing legislation, but effective protection to victims of this discrimination on the ground still has to be improved. easy access to justice, availability of remedies and effective sanctions are not yet sufficiently secured everywhere in the union and, on top of this, the report makes clear that today many victims of discrimination simply ignore their rights. the commission will on a continuous basis carefully monitor the national developments, including any new legislation and the development of national case law. we will also pay more attention to what happens at regional and local level, and i am ready to use all available means, including the use of infringement proceedings, to ensure correct application in all member states. but the commission will also act itself to address the problems identified. we have a booklet which is currently under preparation, with practical guidance for victims of discrimination. the commission is also providing funding for both awareness-raising and for training on equality law. in order to address the lack of information on discrimination, the commission is assessing the means to promote collection of such data in cooperation with other players, such as the fundamental rights agency. the disadvantages faced by women in employment, including the gender pay gap, are not specifically covered by the employment and equality directive itself, which deals with discrimination on grounds of religion or belief, disability, age and sexual orientation. but there is a legal framework on equal pay, which includes the employment gender equality directive, clearly prohibiting any pay discrimination. it is reinforced by a recommendation on equal pay adopted earlier this year, and from now on i will strongly focus on the correct application and enforcement of the eu legal framework at national level and on the measures taken on the transparency of pay.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i will try not to waste time. commissioner, the existing rules offer a good legal basis, but the main problem is that they are not always applied correctly and, if equal treatment is to be a reality, more involvement of the member states and civil society is needed. i would like to focus on two groups. first, people with disabilities. in order to ensure that they can work on equal terms, it is often only necessary to make small adjustments to the workplace, by adopting mechanisms which do not impose a disproportionate or undue cost on the companies, but which ensure their full participation. and secondly, i would like to refer to the ethnic minorities and, in particular, the roma community. the rate of job exclusion is over 78%. the problem is structural and requires rapid and long-term action, through awareness campaigns directed not only at society as a whole but, in particular, at employers and trade unions, to eliminate once and for all the social stigma suffered by this minority. but above all, measures are needed to prevent absenteeism and school dropout, because, as one awareness campaign in my country says, 'gypsies with education, gypsies with a future'. and to achieve this, it would be necessary to strengthen the role of ngos, which are the closest and can provide the necessary assistance.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, this report talks about access to swift and effective justice as a vital mechanism for victims of discrimination. but in my country, spain, since 2012, we have said goodbye to public justice, since law 10/2012 came into force, which means an increase in court fees of up to 750 euros. these fees also apply to labour lawsuits. this means that citizens are unequal and helpless, especially those with fewer resources: immigrants, young people living in a state of permanent precariousness and women who continue to suffer from an absolutely immoral wage gap. access to justice cannot be speedy and effective while laws exist in the member states which place the fundamental right of defence on the one hand and the payment of a fee which is often unacceptable on the other. we cannot speak of equality when justice is made into a luxury item. what the government of my country has done is a disgrace and i would like to know whether the commission is going to do anything about it.
mr president, democracy is based on equality between its members and, unfortunately, today in the european union it is clear that we have brutal inequalities and discrimination on the grounds of origin, race, sexual orientation and also between men and women. we've been creating legislation for the last decade to address this problem, but we're a long way from solving it, which is pretty obvious. the ugt, the general union of workers, the largest trade union in spain, recently recalled that women have to work 84 more days in the same job to get the same pay. and we know, from the recent study we have here today, that we don't have enough data - we know that - we know that people don't know their rights; we know that sanctions on the states are not yet powerful enough and that for many people access to justice is very difficult. so with all that we know, let's take action and improve our legislation.
member of the commission. - i'd like to thank you for this fruitful discussion. some of you will remember that i made it clear during my hearing that promoting equality and combating discrimination, especially in the labour market, is one of my priorities and i can only repeat that. it is therefore my commitment to ensure that the equal opportunities directives are better implemented and that citizens are better protected against discrimination. there are a number of things we can do about it: having good laws is one thing, enforcing them is two. but we must also - and this has been mentioned in the debate - ensure that we have more data. because when we have data, problems become transparent, we make them visible, we bring them up, we start to qualify them, and then awareness of the fact that there is a problem will also increase. the directive itself does not provide for mandatory data collection by the member states. we are therefore looking at whether we can do something ourselves by involving other actors, including the european fundamental rights office, as i said in my introduction. awareness campaigns are another tool we can use and i might point this out to you again. you have just asked for examples of the reduction - in the context of equal pay - of the pay gap which still exists between men and women. for those of you who may have doubts: we organise an equal pay day every year, which once again clearly draws attention to this problem. the commission has also been working on a new proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. as regards the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, this legislation prohibits discrimination against disabled people and requires employers to ensure that disabled people have an appropriate workplace. however, there is also a limitation to this obligation: it should not cost the employer too much. so it is a matter of give and take, because the cost to the employer is also taken into account. i think, however, that the ratification of the un convention will give us an extra incentive to see that this aspect of our directive is also finally implemented properly. as regards the roma and other issues mentioned here which are somewhat outside the scope of this directive, i can only promise you that i will work very closely with my colleague, mrs jourová, and that we will jointly ensure that there is no discrimination and that there are equal opportunities for all.
in writing. for people with disabilities, insufficient access to the labour market can mean that they are in socially vulnerable situations and exposed to serious risks of discrimination, poverty and social exclusion. in eu countries, 49% of women with disabilities and 61% of men with disabilities are in employment, compared with 64% of women without disabilities and 89% of men. the terrible consequence of all this is that the poverty rate for disabled people is 70% higher than the average, due to limited access to employment. in the light of these data, special attention is needed to eliminate, or at least reduce, employment inequality in the field of disability, and to adopt so-called 'reasonable adjustments'. in this connection, the eu has proclaimed in various provisions that compliance with the principle of equal treatment in relation to persons with disabilities implies the adoption of reasonable accommodation. this means that employers will take appropriate measures, depending on the needs of each specific situation, to enable disabled people to access, take part in or progress in employment.
member of the commission. - mr president, i think, from the comments we have heard, there is a broad welcome for the stress test but a clear feeling that the job is not yet done, and that is a conclusion that i would share. i think in terms of the credibility of the test, which is one of the themes of the debate, i would argue that the exercise was credible because a robust methodology was followed; there was a great deal of detail in the quality assurance; there was strong governance and multiple layers of accountability. i think, since, that investors and analysts have praised the degree of disclosure and the degree of transparency about how the tests were run, and i think that there has also been a broadly positive market reaction, since the results were announced a month ago, and i believe that is testament to the credibility of the exercise. one of the points that was raised repeatedly – in slightly different ways – was the question of whether this is enough and whether it will lead to the pickup in bank lending that we all want to see. the purpose of the exercise was to identify and address vulnerabilities in the banking system and to try and dispel some of those doubts about its health – but it was not an exercise for its own sake; rather, the purpose was to try to restore investor trust and confidence. i believe that the european banking authority and the ecb did an excellent job and that they have successfully met the objectives of the exercise. we have devoted a lot of attention to the supply side, but in order to get lending going again, we need the demand side to pick up as well, and that is also something we need to look at. our foremost priority at the commission is to create an environment conducive to growth so that businesses can create jobs and our economies can prosper once more. that, of course, is the background to the investment initiative, which president juncker will be announcing to parliament tomorrow; and it is also the prism through which i intend to look at the question of regulation and regulation of the banking sector. i believe that a healthy european banking sector is one that supports growth and benefits eu citizens, businesses and society as a whole. it is a system, as a number of colleagues said, where taxpayers are no longer exposed to the risk of bank failures; it is a system that is solid; it is a system that is stable, without banks which are too big to fail, too costly to save or too complex to resolve. that means it needs to be a system that is responsibly regulated, managed and supervised, based on strong ethical standards and sound governance. ms ferreira reminded us of the need for the next steps on banking union, and i agree with what she said about that. an important task has been started, but there is more work to do, and she reminded us of some of the immediate steps that i know she and her colleagues are working on at the moment. i also take the point that we need to be alert to new risks and to look, as i said, in particular at the question of ‘too big to fail’. but i believe – although there is more work to do – that the results of the eu-wide stress tests have brought us one step nearer to a healthy banking system, and that the stress tests and the comprehensive assessment will help restore confidence in our banks. that will allow them to turn their attention to supporting growth for the benefit of us and the benefit of european citizens.
on 26 october the european central bank and the european banking authority published the results of the global analysis of the european banking system, comprising the review of the quality of banking assets (aqr) and the so-called stress tests, which analysed the solvency of 150 banking institutions in the eu countries and, in particular, in the euro area. first, these tests are based on a simulation exercise. in addition, the method of evaluation chosen by the european central bank is to ask the different banks to send it a balance sheet report, which leaves room for the banks to falsify the accounts. an example of the lack of neutrality in such tests occurred in 2010 when many irish and spanish entities, including bankia, passed the stress tests and had to receive public support shortly after passing the stress tests. therefore, we cannot consider that the stress tests on banks respond to reliable mechanisms. to ask us citizens who have paid the consequences of putting public money into private banks to trust such results is practically an act of faith.
in writing. it is not surprising that banks recover their solvency when citizens are forced to contribute to their rescue with all kinds of sacrifices. this is even less so when a tailor-made exercise is prepared, by softening, as in the case of spain, the macroeconomic forecasts or by omitting an analysis of the systematic interactions between banks and other unregulated parts of the financial system. if the purpose of the stress tests was to allow credit to flow, i warn you of their failure. without a restructuring of private debts, households and smes will remain more concerned with reducing their debt than with negotiating new loans: neither will companies invest while demand remains depressed, nor will households, punished by unemployment and low wages, think of taking out a mortgage. in spain too, banking was solvent and regulation exemplary; it happened that it was the economic system as a whole that could not resist its dependence on debt. when the bubble bursts, it can only be followed by stagnation. the return to growth requires a productive alternative to the financialisation they insist on imposing.
mr president, the banking union is under way. the single supervisory mechanism, headed by the european central bank, has already started its work and we will soon have a bank resolution fund waiting, mr hill, for a new initiative to approve deposit insurance. in any case, the funding provided for in the current resolution fund is very low: it will be just €55 billion by 2024. the socialist group has therefore tabled an amendment seeking that the revenue from sanctions imposed by the ecb in the context of its supervisory work should also be used to feed this resolution fund. we would support, mr ferber, an additional source of revenue for this fund, which is very scarce at the moment, and also a fully european source. i therefore ask that our amendment be voted in this parliament, because it strengthens the banking union project and thus contributes to a faster exit from the current crisis.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, the initiative of president juncker is most timely. it is unnecessary to deny that growth in europe is unsatisfactory. there are growth forecasts that are constantly being turned down. there is a serious risk of a move towards stagnation, while inflation remains too low for too long. a positive shock is needed to set a different growth path, to remove the risk of stagnation. it is necessary and possible for the whole of europe. the italian presidency of the council has placed growth and employment at the heart of its agenda and has identified three pillars: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the recovery of investment is crucial to put the european union on a new growth path. investment supports demand in the short term and strengthens supply and potential output in the medium term. as many have pointed out, the fall in investment in recent years has been dramatic and widespread. this trend must be reversed. structural reforms are needed at both national and european level. reforms improve the business environment, increase investment prospects and profit. we must not forget that reforms in several countries have positive and important spillover effects in an area as strongly integrated as the european one. but reforms are also at european level, just to mention the completion of the banking union and recent achievements such as the adoption of a standard for the automatic exchange of information against tax evasion. they are reforms that change the rules, change the behavior and therefore change the resources. reforms and integration create investment opportunities, finance makes these investments possible. the dilemma that is often talked about, whether we need more resources or whether we need projects, is a false dilemma: it takes both. if profitable projects increase, the resources needed to finance them will have to be increased, directly or indirectly. the task force on investment launched by ecofin, which includes the european investment bank, the commission and the member states, has already produced concrete results in terms of projects to be financed. it can be a model of behavior for the future as well. the programme presented by the president of the commission can play a decisive role in boosting investment and growth and in initiating a process which will have to be strengthened over time and increasingly linked to the other levers of economic policy which europe has or will want to have. the ecofin council intends to make a practical contribution as soon as it meets in a few days' time. it is also necessary - as has already been said by many - to encourage both private and public investment. it is important that public resources are mobilised to provide leverage for private investment, to provide a strengthened risk-taking capacity. but let us not forget that public investment also has a direct effect on private investment, especially in conditions of weak and prolonged aggregate demand such as the present one. in conditions of weak aggregate demand such as the present one, the time horizon of firms is shortened, confidence is weakened and with it the propensity to take risks and to invest is weakened. we are facing a market failure, and we need public action alongside private choices. and to facilitate private investment, i repeat, we need reforms, reform programmes to improve the business environment and also the introduction of new financial instruments. i see this perspective as linked to the emerging idea of a capital markets union. in addition to banking systems as the main source of private finance, other instruments need to be developed to strengthen existing ones. in all this the role of the european investment bank is crucial, also in collaboration with the national development banks, with whom the already strong relationship should be strengthened in an overall network that can not only multiply resources but multiply the technical capacity to select projects and then to direct resources to these projects, along the strategic investment areas that are known: the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: these sectors are important in themselves, but they are important in their totality. let us not forget that the gradual fall in investment in europe is also what is driving europe away from the technological frontier and thus undermining the prospects for growth in the long term. i'm coming to a conclusion, and i'd like to end with just one thought: this has to be done quickly. the expectations of the citizens of the european union are growing, but so is the risk of disappointment. the project which the commission is launching today is important, and it will take some time to complete and to test. in the meantime, there are things that can be done. you can use the projects that you have selected, you can direct existing resources to those projects. this can be a signal of confidence that increases confidence in public action, both at national and european level, and thus reverses the downward trend in private investment. the downward revision of the growth prospects to which i referred is often explained in large part by the lack of confidence in politics on the part of european citizens. this is also the task of the institutions. i am convinced that the initiative presented today by president juncker and the commission is only the first very important step in a breakthrough in the management of economic policy and thus in europe's ability to return to producing growth and jobs.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank you all for your very valuable contribution. from now on, we have to concentrate on very deep cooperation in order to make this plan real. today, mr juncker’s commission is fulfilling the first promise we made when we were appointed: we are setting out an investment plan that will change the way public money is used for investment in europe. there is ample liquidity in the market. interest rates are very low and financial market tension has eased. at the same time, there is a real demand for credible investment projects, and yet investment is not happening. there is a severe disconnect. uncertainties and risk aversion are stifling investment flows. public authorities can play a vital role in both supply and demand. we need to make long-term financing available for projects that contribute towards our common priorities for europe: energy, digital, transport, and research and innovation. to succeed, europe must be united and innovative. we can only deliver a programme of this scale and ambition with the strong political support of this house. we count on your support for this investment plan, to sustain its high level of ambition and to send a clear message to voters that their voices have been heard. i know that attention will be concentrated today on the additional financial capacity. important as this is, for me this is not enough in itself. as i said in my hearing, i do not want to just put numbers on a piece of paper or money on a table. therefore, we are presenting a major reform of investment at european level. we want to make sure that real investment happens in the real economy and that we create real new opportunities in europe. the eu investment plan is a triangle, with three parts. firstly, we will ensure that every euro invested through this plan maximises its impact on the real economy. to achieve this, we will launch a european fund for strategic investment together with the eib. this fund will be underpinned by guarantees from the eu budget and a capital contribution from the eib worth a total of eur 21 billion. the new, fresh lending capacity of this new fund will be more than eur 60 billion to the real economy. it will be directed at higher-risk investments providing first-loss guarantees – and i want to repeat this: it will be directed at higher-risk investments providing first-loss guarantees – to complement the traditional lending activity of the eib. it will also be used to finance long-term strategic investment and to provide additional finance for smes and mid-sized companies. the fund, which is backed by a solid eu guarantee, will bring in more money from investors in the public and private sector, who will be reassured by a lower risk. we estimate that, by this multiplier effect, the fund will unlock public and private investment into the real economy to a value of more than eur 300 billion. this is a robust, conservative assumption based on previous eib and eu experiences. this is not about complex financial instruments for their own sake but about making investment happen. to those who claim that this is not ʽrealʼ money, my reply is: nonsense. this is a very real, additional public lending capacity of more than eur 60 billion which acts as a magnet to draw in real investment in real projects and create real jobs. what it is not is an expensive cash handout which will damage our public-sector finances and have no longer-term sustainable impact. today, we come together to deliver our part. the next step is for national governments to step in and provide additional capital to the fund, and we strongly encourage member states to do so. the member states’ contribution to the fund will be stability and growth pact (sgp)-neutral. in addition to this, we also look to the member states to use their eu structural funds better and to double the use of financial instruments such as loans and guarantees. currently, 92% of structural funds go to grant schemes. this has to change. once the money is granted, it is gone. we need to make better use of this financing so that it goes further and has a real effect on the economy. at the heart of this package there is a political choice: either we continue business as usual with traditional grants and loans and that is as far as the money goes, or we use our budget in the most efficient way to support riskier borrowing and create a larger lending capacity. this is the choice we have made. it is a new approach at european level, to change the way public money is used. as a second pillar, we want to make sure that this money reaches the real economy. together with the eib we are creating a transparent pipeline of trusted investment. we will be identifying viable projects at eu level and stepping up the necessary technical assistance to support project structuring and the use of more innovative financial instruments for member states. this is what investors are asking for. there is money out there, but investors tell us they need well-structured, high-quality projects with access to clear and transparent information. the task force led by the commission and the eib, with member states, is currently identifying over a thousand projects which are ready to be assessed. we want to give a european label for the most viable ones. we need sound investments for the future, not another bubble. that is why we are proposing this combination of guarantees at eu level for higher-risk investments, along with longer-term projects in line with our strategic priorities. together they will enable us to start moving quickly and also to deliver sustainable investment for the long term. thirdly, we want to remove barriers to investment by the private sector. we need to step up our efforts to have better regulation. we need to work with the member states to renew europe with structural reforms which create a more favourable investment environment and better competitiveness and create more growth and jobs. we want to create a single market in the energy, digital, capital, public procurement and services areas. this helps to remove regulatory barriers for business to invest. there are many companies out there creating digital products. they have a single market in the united states but not here. there are many people who want to invest in the energy sector, but until they have an energy union they cannot do so as easily as, say, in the food sector. the single market needs to be deepened in services and in public procurement. i will also support my fellow commissioners in completing the single market in energy, the digital sector and transport. i will also work closely with commissioner jonathan hill to deliver a capital markets union. we need a financial sector which serves our companies better – especially smes – and reduces their dependence on financing from the banks. for me, this single market dimension – the third side of the triangle – is the most important part of our work and the one that really changes europe permanently. of course, this will not happen overnight, but we can make change together if we are determined. this is our joint responsibility. each of these three strands of the investment triangle is needed to make investment happen in europe. each strand reinforces the others. i am sure some will say that the money of this new investment fund is not enough. we do not need – and we do not want – to maximise the taxpayers’ burden. what matters is real investment, not just large sums of money sitting in a bank. we are going to use a relatively small amount of public money to remove the fear factor and unlock the investment funds which are already there and waiting to be used. we need just enough money to get the motor running. after that it will have a life of its own. if member states still believe these funds are not enough, we invite them to make their own additional contributions. for the investment plan to succeed, member states must take courageous decisions and the ecb will need to play its part. on its own, the plan is not a magic bullet to transform the european economy but – and it is a very important but – if we implement all three elements of our plan, we will change the european investment landscape permanently and structurally for the better. so let us all get to work together to get investments working in europe again.
in writing. the €315 billion investment plan proposed by the commission is a first step towards stimulating growth in europe's depressed economy - a plan that has come under pressure from the socialist group in the european parliament. the design submitted contains uncertainties which should be clarified in the coming weeks. the fund starts with a small initial capital provided by the eib, the rest being guarantees based on the commission's budgets. the participation of the states through guarantees and through capital from countries with fiscal leeway is vital. the fund should also have a credible governance model that allows for a professionalised selection of projects, with a greater impact on economies with worse prospects. the credibility of new projects will be central to achieving the high level of private capital involvement on which the whole programme is based. we will work in the coming months in the european parliament to clarify the uncertainties of the juncker plan and to make it more ambitious, but also to make more changes in the hitherto misguided european economic policy.
in writing. the €315 billion investment plan proposed by the commission is a first step towards stimulating growth in europe's depressed economy - a plan that has come under pressure from the socialist group in the european parliament. the design submitted contains uncertainties which should be clarified in the coming weeks. the fund starts with a small initial capital provided by the eib, the rest being guarantees based on the commission's budgets. the participation of the states through guarantees and through capital from countries with fiscal leeway is vital. the fund should also have a credible governance model that allows for a professionalised selection of projects, with a greater impact on economies with worse prospects. the credibility of new projects will be central to achieving the high level of private capital involvement on which the whole programme is based. we will work in the coming months in the european parliament to clarify the uncertainties of the juncker plan and to make it more ambitious, but also to make more changes in the hitherto misguided european economic policy.
in writing. the €315 billion investment plan proposed by the commission, following pressure from the s&d group, is good news for the depressed european economy. its urgent need is widely shared in academia, as shown by numerous economic studies, and by citizens, who have shaped social initiatives such as new deal 4 europe. the socialists welcome this step taken by the commission at the request of our group. the design submitted contains uncertainties which should be clarified in the coming weeks. the fund starts with a small initial capital provided by the eib, the rest being guarantees based on the commission's budgets. the participation of the states through guarantees and through capital from countries with fiscal leeway is vital. the fund should also have a credible governance model that allows for a professionalised selection of projects, with a greater impact on economies with worse prospects. the credibility of new projects will be central to achieving the high level of private capital involvement on which the whole programme is based.
in writing. the investment plan proposed by the president of the commission aims to mobilise €315 billion of public and private capital to revitalise the european economy and create jobs. the impact on gdp growth rate is expected to be between 2,5 and 3,1 per cent and the creation of 1,3 million new jobs in the period 2015-2017. although the commission proposal does not require contributions or guarantees from the states, it is worth noting that this has two positive aspects: the investment made by the programme will not count in the calculation of the deficit, and the governance of the new efsi will not adopt an intergovernmental structure, but will be under the aegis of the commission and the eib. the weakest aspects are the unrealistic proposed leverage of 1 to 15 and the lack of mention of the ecb's participation in the purchase of the bonds issued to finance the efsi.
in writing. the €315 billion investment plan proposed by the commission is a first step towards stimulating growth in europe's depressed economy - a plan that has come under pressure from the socialist group in the european parliament. the design submitted contains uncertainties which should be clarified in the coming weeks. the fund starts with a small initial capital provided by the eib, the rest being guarantees based on the commission's budgets. the participation of the states through guarantees and through capital from countries with fiscal leeway is vital. the fund should also have a credible governance model that allows for a professionalised selection of projects, with a greater impact on economies with worse prospects. the credibility of new projects will be central to achieving the high level of private capital involvement on which the whole programme is based. we will work in the coming months in the european parliament to clarify the uncertainties of the juncker plan and to make it more ambitious, but also to make more changes in the hitherto misguided european economic policy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr commissioner, kyoto was a great decision to ensure that the future of humanity is at risk from climate change. but the effects that should have been obtained by the full implementation of the kyoto protocol have been held back by two wrong decisions, by two wrong approaches: that of the developed countries, which have believed that to get out of the crisis one had to abandon the policies of sustainability and the fight against climate change, and that of the underdeveloped countries, which have come out, because they have believed that growth is not compatible with respect for the environment. yet during this time, the evidence of climate change has continued to grow. crises are becoming more frequent. lima must be the first step towards the great ambition of kyoto, and paris must be the consolidation of that ambition. there are positive signs. the european union has made commitments. it is true that parliament wanted more. more than the commission and the commission more than the council. but we made commitments. china and the united states are doing it. and the g77 is doing it. it is time for these commitments to be precise objectives, concrete actions, new financing, support and solidarity for developing countries. lima must be the place to prepare the recovery of a great ambition that, to a certain extent, has been lost along the way.
mr president, we need to develop an ecologically sustainable economic model, which, in my view, means laying the foundations for a real and credible transition to an ecological economic model, as a means, of course, to achieve real progress that is inclusive of all people, and i am certainly not talking only at european level. when we talk about fighting climate change, we are talking about transforming the current model; we are talking about social, economic and environmental justice, that is, an alternative model very different from the current one, a model that must integrate, in turn, mobility and energy policies with public planning, policies of spatial planning, consumption and production processes, waste management, a new model of taxation on environmental bases. we are talking about fundamentally changing the economic cycle. as merja kyllönen has pointed out, we need a comprehensive action plan and more ambitious steps.
mr president, the european union is presenting itself as a leader at the climate change summit, but the reality is starting to be less accurate. for example, in spain there has been an increase in emissions of 5.2 per cent for the electricity generation sector, even during the crisis, according to data from the national institute of statistics. we still have an economy addicted to oil and coal. the european union continues to support electricity companies, which use the most expensive and polluting energy sources - such as coal and gas - and increase the cost of electricity while increasing energy poverty. out of the picture are emissions imported from international trade, including the failed european emissions trading system, hot air purchases, etc. if we take the european union as a whole, the carbon footprint increases by 25 percent when we include imports. the allocation of emission allowances is scandalous. the most polluting ones have been 'fed' at the expense of emissions trading and their use has become a source of surplus for the companies themselves. is it not time to start thinking that the solutions are through binding laws and not so much through money, money and money?
mr president, commissioner, we in the european union have made countless efforts to combat climate change, both in the conferences of the parties and in our internal policies. and that we're only responsible for 11% of emissions. we are on track to meet our commitment to reduce emissions by 20% by 2020 and this is thanks to research, new technologies, the promotion of renewable energy, new standards for car emissions and the replacement of energy sources by less polluting ones. we have the best guarantee for a new international negotiation in which the european union must not only make offers to its partners, but must also make demands. because meeting our 2020 target comes at a cost that is being borne by families and businesses. we need an international agreement to unify the environmental conditions under which industrial activity, agriculture, energy generation and transport take place around the world. european citizens and businesses cannot continue to bear the cost of fighting climate change. the commission and the member states must use all the resources available to achieve a balanced agreement by next year, in which everyone is equally committed to the fight against climate change, as the european union is committing itself.
mr president, it is not the fight against climate change that is the burden of the citizens in terms of costs. it is the change in policies of some governments, as is the case of spain, which has stopped betting on renewable energies and that has been a blow to those families who had invested in it. but let's talk about the lima conference. amendment no 9 by the european people's party breaks with a traditional ambition of this parliament. it is a step backwards that they want to impose on us, by removing the binding targets on efficiency and renewables. it is a sign of what this legislature has in store for us. it is a nod to certain interests that are supported by some countries. and i would like to know whether this is also the position of the european commission. today you want us to give up the demand for binding targets. they say in their amendment that what happens is that there are different views on the role we should play. don't get us confused this parliament has always had a vocation to fight climate change and we cannot take a step back.
in writing. i voted against this report which approves the draft contained in the recommendation of the european central bank as amended in relation to the collection of statistical information by the european central bank, as one of the new powers conferred on this body. from the outset, my group has criticised most elements of banking union, including those relating to increasing the power of the ecb. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft regulation because i share the ecb's recommendation that regulation (ec) no 2533/1998 be amended to adapt it to the ecb's new supervisory tasks in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1024/2013. these changes will allow it to use confidential statistical information to fulfil its supervisory role. furthermore, it shall be permitted to transmit this information to the european system of central banks, the authorities and bodies of the member states and of the union responsible for supervision for the exercise of their respective functions.
in writing. - the financial crisis has highlighted the need to improve regulation and supervision of the financial sector in the eu, which is why i voted in favour of the ecb being able to use confidential statistical information for the performance of its new supervisory functions and for its transmission within the european system of central banks to national and eu authorities and bodies responsible for the supervision and stability of financial institutions, markets and infrastructures under the european stability mechanism and the legislation in force. we compensate for this by requiring the authorities receiving the information to take all the necessary regulatory, administrative, technical and organisational measures to ensure the physical and computer protection of its confidentiality.
in writing. i voted against this report which approves the draft contained in the recommendation of the european central bank as amended in relation to the collection of statistical information by the european central bank, as one of the new powers conferred on this body. from the outset, my group has criticised most elements of banking union, including those relating to increasing the power of the ecb. that is why i voted against.
in writing. we voted against the report because it is part of the new banking union they want to establish by giving the ecb more power. the fact that the ecb is responsible for monitoring and at the same time dictating the monetary policy of the countries of the european union creates a conflict of interest which we must bear in mind when analysing what the establishment of a european banking union will entail. because at a certain point monetary policy decisions (such as interest rate movements) may conflict with the objective of financial stability. thus, if monitoring detects a stability problem, the solution may require a change in interest rates in the opposite direction.
in writing. - i have supported the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 2533/98 on the collection of statistics by the european central bank (ecb) as the econ committee has succeeded in substantially improving this rule, thanks in part to amendments put forward by my group, the socialists and democrats, including some of my own contributions. the ecb has therefore achieved a more transparent, coherent and internally consistent rule, which has required going beyond the articles that the ecb recommended to be amended. at least three improvements are worth noting. first, any exemption from the obligation to provide statistics will have to be justified and made public. secondly, a distinction is made between incorrect and manipulated statistical information, which will allow the possible sanctions to be graded. third, the ecb's inspection work is strengthened by granting it the power to access the raw data of the entities subject to the statistical reporting obligation. however, it should be borne in mind that a majority was not reached in favour of updating the level of the sanctions, which are not entirely proportionate to the various types of conduct and are hardly dissuasive.
in writing. we voted against the report because it is part of the new banking union they want to establish by giving the ecb more power. the fact that the ecb is responsible for monitoring and at the same time dictating the monetary policy of the countries of the european union creates a conflict of interest which we must bear in mind when analysing what the establishment of a european banking union will entail. because at a certain point monetary policy decisions (such as interest rate movements) may conflict with the objective of financial stability. thus, if monitoring detects a stability problem, the solution may require a change in interest rates in the opposite direction.
in writing. - i have supported this report in an attempt to make this regulation more consistent and coherent. progress has been made in differentiating between incorrect and manipulated information and, for sanctions purposes, it has been clarified that the ecb has the power to request raw data from financial institutions, as well as the need to justify in writing any exemption from entities providing statistical information. however, the fines, which date back to 1998 and are now out of date, have not been updated.
in writing. i voted against this report which approves the draft contained in the recommendation of the european central bank as amended in relation to the collection of statistical information by the european central bank, as one of the new powers conferred on this body. from the outset, my group has criticised most elements of banking union, including those relating to increasing the power of the ecb. that is why i voted against.
in writing. the financial crisis highlighted the need to improve regulation and supervision of the financial sector in the eu, and i have therefore voted in favour of the ecb being able to use confidential statistical information for the performance of its new supervisory tasks and for transmission within the european system of central banks to national and eu authorities and bodies responsible for the supervision and stability of financial institutions, markets and infrastructures in accordance with the european stability mechanism and the legislation in force. we complement the rule with the requirement that the authorities receiving the information take all the necessary regulatory, administrative, technical and organisational measures to ensure the physical and computer protection of its confidentiality.
in writing. - i voted against, because the report is part of the new banking union they want to establish, thus giving it more power if it is the ecb's. the fact that the ecb is responsible for both monitoring and dictating the monetary policy of the countries of the european union creates a conflict of interest which we must bear in mind when analysing what the establishment of a european banking union will entail. because at a certain point monetary policy decisions (such as interest rate movements) may conflict with the objective of financial stability. thus, if monitoring detects a stability problem, the solution may require a change in interest rates in the opposite direction.
in writing. i voted against this report which approves the draft contained in the recommendation of the european central bank as amended in relation to the collection of statistical information by the european central bank, as one of the new powers conferred on this body. from the outset, my group has criticised most elements of banking union, including those relating to increasing the power of the ecb. that is why i voted against.
in writing. i voted against this report which approves the draft contained in the recommendation of the european central bank as amended in relation to the collection of statistical information by the european central bank, as one of the new powers conferred on this body. from the outset, my group has criticised most elements of banking union, including those relating to increasing the power of the ecb. that is why i voted against.
in writing. the adoption of the single supervisory mechanism requires an amendment to council regulation (ec) no 2532/98. in particular, article 18 of the ssm gives the ecb new powers to impose administrative pecuniary sanctions when banks breach directly applicable union law. from the outset my group has criticised most elements of banking union, including those relating to an increase in the power of the ecb. the ecb should not be given any more powers than it already has. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour because, as a consequence of the adoption of council regulation (eu) no 1024/2013 of 15 october 2013, the ecb has competence for the prudential supervision of credit institutions. this requires the definition of periodic budgets, the general budgets and the scope of application, the penalties for non-compliance, the procedure for initiating infringement proceedings and the time limits for penalties.
in writing. - the crisis has required the adoption of rules to ensure that financial agents, products and markets are properly regulated and effectively supervised, with banking union as the backbone, for the long-term survival and prosperity of the euro. comprehensive supervision was needed, hence the recent launch of the single supervisory mechanism for the euro area, now with the ecb as the ultimate supervisor tasked with ensuring a consistent and coherent application of the single rulebook and able to decide to directly supervise any credit institution. beyond transparency on the quality of bank assets, the ecb needed clear and unequivocal authority to impose sanctions. now, with an explicit general delineation of the responsibilities of the ecb and national authorities, it must publish its administrative pecuniary sanction decisions and whether or not an appeal has been lodged and the time limits for enforcing sanctions are reduced. finally, i welcome the adoption of the socialist amendment which provides that the penalties paid by financial institutions should go to the single resolution fund in order to finance future crises in the sector.
in writing. the adoption of the single supervisory mechanism requires an amendment to council regulation (ec) no 2532/98. in particular, article 18 of the ssm gives the ecb new powers to impose administrative pecuniary sanctions when banks breach directly applicable union law. from the outset my group has criticised most elements of banking union, including those relating to an increase in the power of the ecb. the ecb should not be given any more powers than it already has. that is why i voted against.
in writing. we voted against, as the report is part of the new banking union they want to establish by giving more power, if possible, to the ecb. the fact that the ecb is responsible for both monitoring and dictating the monetary policy of the countries of the european union creates a conflict of interest which we must bear in mind when analysing what the establishment of a european banking union will entail. because at a certain point monetary policy decisions (such as interest rate movements) may conflict with the objective of financial stability. thus, if monitoring detects a stability problem, the solution may require a change in interest rates in the opposite direction.
in writing. — i have abstained on the vote regarding the overall modification of regulation (ec) 2532/98, concerning the powers of the european central bank to impose sanctions. although i consider positive many of the changes introduced, i disagree, alongside my political family, with the amendment that allows delaying publication of sanctions by the ecb until all legal recourses are exhausted. this notwithstanding, i am very satisfied that an amendment tabled by myself, proposing the transfer of sanctions proceeds related to the supervisory function of the ecb from this institution to the single resolution fund (srf), has passed with broad support political support, including the s&d, alde, gue and the greens. i hope the council will take on board this proposal, which will mobilise these proceeds for a concrete and productive purpose, increase the credibility and resources of the srf, and create a truly european funding source for it. it is a step forward for the banking union, and a more complete economic union.
in writing. - i think it is important to take advantage of today's debate to introduce a political and also democratic reflection on the nature of the ecb and its tasks in the monetary policy of the euro area. for example, who sets inflation targets and how? i believe that the european parliament, together with the council and the commission, should determine the recommended inflation rate. i also believe that the ecb should consult the council and the commission on the instruments to be used to raise current inflation, because we are running the risk of deflation and economic downturn for several dangerous years. it is clear - and i want to acknowledge this - that mr draghi is trying to stimulate domestic demand and facilitate credit, but there is still enormous resistance in the internal rules of the ecb and legitimate internal differences between national central banks in relation to these policies. is it not time to talk about a new statute for the central bank?
in writing. - i am satisfied with the outcome of this report and with the adoption of the amendment which states that 'the proceeds from sanctions imposed by the ecb in the exercise of its supervisory functions, including the collection of statistical information, will belong to the single resolution fund, which will be fed by the contributions of the banks themselves'. it is the financial institutions that should finance their potential crises, not the european citizens.
in writing. the adoption of the single supervisory mechanism requires an amendment to council regulation (ec) no 2532/98. in particular, article 18 of the ssm gives the ecb new powers to impose administrative pecuniary sanctions when banks breach directly applicable union law. from the outset my group has criticised most elements of banking union, including those relating to an increase in the power of the ecb. the ecb should not be given any more powers than it already has. that is why i voted against.
in writing. the crisis has required rules to ensure that financial players, products and markets are properly regulated and effectively supervised, with the banking union as the backbone, for the long-term survival and prosperity of the euro. comprehensive supervision was needed, hence the recent launch of the single supervisory mechanism for the euro area, now with the ecb as the ultimate supervisor tasked with ensuring a consistent and coherent application of the single rulebook and able to decide to directly supervise any credit institution. beyond transparency on the quality of bank assets, the ecb needed clear and unequivocal authority to impose sanctions. now, with an explicit general delineation of responsibilities between the ecb and national authorities, it should publish its administrative pecuniary sanction decisions, whether or not an appeal has been lodged and whether the time limits for enforcement of sanctions are reduced. finally, i welcome the adoption of the socialist amendment which provides that the penalties paid by financial institutions should go to the single resolution fund in order to finance future crises in the sector.
in writing. - i voted against, because the report is part of the new banking union they want to establish, giving it more power if the ecb is to do so. the fact that the ecb is responsible for both monitoring and dictating the monetary policy of the countries of the european union creates a conflict of interest which we must bear in mind when analysing what the establishment of a european banking union will entail. because at a certain point monetary policy decisions (such as interest rate movements) may conflict with the objective of financial stability. thus, if monitoring detects a stability problem, the solution may require a change in interest rates in the opposite direction.
in writing. the adoption of the single supervisory mechanism requires an amendment to council regulation (ec) no 2532/98. in particular, article 18 of the ssm gives the ecb new powers to impose administrative pecuniary sanctions when banks breach directly applicable union law. from the outset my group has criticised most elements of banking union, including those relating to an increase in the power of the ecb. the ecb should not be given any more powers than it already has. that is why i voted against.
in writing. the adoption of the single supervisory mechanism requires an amendment to council regulation (ec) no 2532/98. in particular, article 18 of the ssm gives the ecb new powers to impose administrative pecuniary sanctions when banks breach directly applicable union law. from the outset my group has criticised most elements of banking union, including those relating to an increase in the power of the ecb. the ecb should not be given any more powers than it already has. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris. we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies. we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level. we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the lima climate summit. when we talk about climate negotiations, we move with hope, but we always end up with discouragement. we have to understand that this climate crisis that we're experiencing is a global crisis and it has to be our priority. and it is the capitalist logic of relocating production where there is less regulation that has led us into this crisis spiral. we should therefore not only be concerned about co2 emissions but also about the logic of market capitalism. to fight climate change, we should refuse to participate in this destructive race. this conference in lima should take a big step forward and adopt a binding global agreement.
in writing. parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris. we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies. we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level. we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
in writing. - the text of the resolution stresses the urgency of meeting international climate commitments now to keep the temperature rise below 2°c above pre-industrial levels and to increase the commitment to reduce emissions by up to 50% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. the resolution insists on making lima the decisive pre-summit to the achievement of binding global commitments in paris 2015, including the definitive mobilization of climate finance to reach the joint goal of usd 100 billion annually by 2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the lima climate summit. when we talk about climate negotiations, we move with hope, but we always end up with discouragement. we have to understand that this climate crisis that we're experiencing is a global crisis and it has to be our priority. and it is the capitalist logic of relocating production where there is less regulation that has led us into this crisis spiral. we should therefore not only be concerned about co2 emissions but also about the logic of market capitalism. to fight climate change, we should refuse to participate in this destructive race. this conference in lima should take a big step forward and adopt a binding global agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2014 united nations conference on climate change bearing in mind that climate change represents a serious and irreversible threat to our society and to the biodiversity of our planet. if we do not act decisively and swiftly, climate change can trigger unprecedented effects that pose a serious threat to the very existence of society. all the states of the world, regardless of their level of development or geographical position, will be affected in one way or another if we do not act. the union has always been fully aware of this serious problem and has been at the forefront of taking action to tackle it, so we must continue to move towards sustained progress in the environment, the economy and industry - three strands of the same european objective - in order to continue to be an example for the rest of the world to follow in the future.
in writing. - parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris. we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe group, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies. we also reject the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl group which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system (ets) as a global and european instrument for combating climate change. we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but that it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the european parliament's position for the next cop 20 meeting, i am voting in favour of what the group of the european people's party has refused to support: political will for more ambitious emission reductions and binding targets for energy efficiency and renewables. these are key elements for the future of the planet and, with the united states and china's positions in favour of a firm agreement, europe cannot go with a position limited in ambition and devoid of substance. we need a post-kyoto agreement, mainly to ensure the development of the countries that suffer most without being the main cause, the developing countries. we socialists will continue to strive to eradicate poverty, improve social welfare, reduce inequality, but we are committed to doing so without destroying the environment globally.
in writing. parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris. we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies. we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level. we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
in writing. - the lima summit must be decisive in preparing the paris conference next year, which i hope will mark binding and tangible commitments, also with reference to the definitive mobilisation of climate finance to achieve the joint objective of usd 100 billion per year by 2020. the latest report presented a few weeks ago by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) is very worrying and in this respect i have already asked a parliamentary question to find out what action the new commissioner for the environment will take. each new piece of information confirms the potential irreversible impact on the climate if concrete measures are not taken to contribute to a more sustainable environment. the report confirms the increasing global warming and warns that the global temperature in the next decade may rise above 2°c.
in writing. parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris. we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies. we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level. we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the lima climate summit. when we talk about climate negotiations, we move with hope, but we always end up with discouragement. we have to understand that this climate crisis that we're experiencing is a global crisis and it has to be our priority. and it is the capitalist logic of relocating production where there is less regulation that has led us into this crisis spiral. we should therefore not only be concerned about co2 emissions but also about the logic of market capitalism. to fight climate change, we should refuse to participate in this destructive race. this conference in lima should take a big step forward and adopt a binding global agreement.
in writing. - parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris. we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies. we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level. we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the lima climate summit. when we talk about climate negotiations, we move with hope, but we always end up with discouragement. we have to understand that this climate crisis that we're experiencing is a global crisis and it has to be our priority. and it is the capitalist logic of relocating production where there is less regulation that has led us into this crisis spiral. we should therefore not only be concerned about co2 emissions but also about the logic of market capitalism. to fight climate change, we should refuse to participate in this destructive race. the european union should start taking action. it would make a major contribution to reducing greenhouse gases by implementing agricultural and food policies that respect the right of peoples to food sovereignty; by promoting production models based on agroecology, with farmers producing food and by strengthening local and local markets. this conference in lima should take a big step forward and adopt a binding global agreement.
in writing. – climate change represents an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, and must thus be addressed at international level. the goals of climate change policies can only be reached by turning the general course of development towards ecological sustainability in both the developed and the developing countries. it has to be a global commitment; if not, the effort of a few will be useless and unfair. i supported this motion for a resolution with the hope that the lima conference will be a success. there is an urgent need to act and for an international response to the challenge.
in writing. - parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris. we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies. we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level. we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the lima climate summit. when we talk about climate negotiations, we move with hope, but we always end up with discouragement. we have to understand that this climate crisis that we're experiencing is a global crisis and it has to be our priority. and it is the capitalist logic of relocating production where there is less regulation that has led us into this crisis spiral. we should therefore not only be concerned about co2 emissions but also about the logic of market capitalism. to fight climate change, we should refuse to participate in this destructive race. this conference in lima should take a big step forward and adopt a binding global agreement.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, in recent years european citizens have become increasingly distrustful of the union's institutions, which they consider to be distant, overly bureaucratic, slow, outdated and incapable of reacting. the delay in the resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine sends the message to the citizens that we are being criticized for. we europeans, who have distinguished ourselves by defending and promoting human dignity against the many forms of violence and discrimination of just causes, who have distinguished ourselves by speaking out when necessary, are once again falling short of the mark. i would even say that we are once again putting the interests of the people ahead of the fundamental values of european thought. i'm not giving up, though. in a complex and fast-moving world as it is today, we must aspire to be a leading parliament, not a follower of the member states. we must set the interests and priorities of the states on the basis of the common values which are the foundations of the european union. we cannot afford to be left behind in the decision-making process. we must be in the vanguard. ladies and gentlemen, the courageous announcement by the swedish parliament to recognize the state of palestine must be the beginning of a new wave of international recognition which we must support. our influence cannot continue to be limited to sending large amounts of public resources to rebuild a region every time israelis and palestinians come into conflict. we must lead the international pressure to find a solution based on the creation of two states, the israeli and the palestinian, coexisting in peace, security and prosperity. this is a solution which the european parliament has been advocating for years, decades. and it is therefore our political responsibility to help to bring about such a solution as soon as possible. we can't put it off any longer. recognising palestine will be a step which future generations will remember as europe's decision to put itself on the right side of history. recognizing the palestinian state is an investment in peace.
mr president, this debate, like others on this subject which are taking place these days in various parliaments in various member states, seems to me to be a sign of the level of impatience and anxiety which is being caused by the deadlock, the blockage of the peace process. there have been many years of disagreements and conflicts; there have been many initiatives, many efforts at mediation and negotiation, the last and most intense of which was that of secretary of state kerry; there have been many acts of violence and clashes, for example in gaza this summer; and there have been many heinous terrorist attacks, such as the one last week in the synagogue in jerusalem. after all these long and violent years we are faced with a situation of weariness and worry, with no horizon of a near solution. it is urgent to promote a genuine peace process, to which the parties are genuinely committed. we must avoid unilateral acts that hinder this process, for example settlements which the entire international community rejects. the aim of the negotiations must be the two-state solution living in peace, security and prosperity. today, here, as in other parliaments - among others, recently, the spanish parliament - we are debating the recognition of palestine. on this subject, what i want to insist on in this forum is that there should be rigorous european coordination which shows that there is a genuine european foreign policy. we should not repeat what happened, for example, at unesco. ladies and gentlemen, it is not for this parliament to recognize states, of course, but to declare that serious peace negotiations must be launched urgently and that the european union must be involved in them. in this respect, i welcome the commitment announced by mrs mogherini and i also hope for good coordination with the indispensable power in this respect, which is the united states. we are living through very difficult times in the region, as the challenge of isis is posing huge problems in syria and iraq. frank, solid, genuine negotiations between israelis and palestinians will create a space for dialogue and hope for peace throughout the middle east, which is currently submerged in a sea of violence, intolerance and frustration.
mr president, thank you, mrs mogherini, for your work and your commitment. i am very proud that spain has decided by almost unanimous vote in the house to recognize the palestinian state. because you have heard many times, and you have said it too: europe is slow, europe is not present as a political actor in the region. i think we're already late. we're late to find a solution that's decent and fair. and we have to remember in this debate that there is an occupier, right? there's an occupier and there's an occupied village. and the occupier has responsibilities over the safety and lives of those whose territory he occupies. i agree with the consensus. i think it's very important to this issue. but consensus cannot be an excuse to keep doing nothing, to keep standing here. we need to move. we need to make ourselves present. and besides, palestine is already a state. it is a state with a territory, with a government, with a parliament. it's a state that it's time we all recognized now.
mr president, vice-president mogherini, i would like to add my thanks to you for your general approach to the matter and for the mood - if i may say so - in which you have come to parliament, as you have repeatedly said that you came to listen. it is true - and you said it and some members have repeated it - that this parliament has no powers in the matter of state recognition, but as the mayor of barcelona often says - and i like to quote him - it is important for a politician to know what is his responsibility and what is his business. and the middle east is a matter for the european parliament. moreover, to those who have been calling here today for us to let the states do their job and for the european union not to interfere, perhaps it is good to reflect that, after so many centuries of failure by the states in managing the conflict in the middle east, perhaps it would be appropriate for the european union to be given the opportunity to seek peace where the states have already shown their failure. the recognition of palestine as a state, subject to international law, can never be seen as an agreed decision against israel, a state which i hold in high esteem and which i will always defend against those who deny it its right to exist. i am convinced that after so many years of conflict in the middle east, the only possible solution is the peaceful and negotiated coexistence of two states, israel and palestine. i am convinced that such coexistence is possible, but this end will only be achieved if negotiation and dialogue are given a chance, if it is accepted that the past must stop dictating the present and let us prepare the future.
mr. president, look, i can't stand the equidistance in the debate on palestine. i can't stand her desmond tutu said it much better than i did a moment ago. he said: "if you are neutral in situations of injustice, you have chosen the side of the oppressor". a while ago there was talk of why the european union should intervene in matters which are not its own. is the european union not intervening when it maintains a preferential trade agreement with israel, ignoring the article on respect for human rights contained in that agreement? does the european union not intervene when its members sell arms to israel? as part of the international community, should the european union not demand compliance with all un resolutions on the territory, including 194 on the return of refugees, including 242 on the withdrawal of the occupied territories? and we were still talking about recognizing the state of israel. that is impressive. today the situation should not, could not be worse. and this is because of the invaluable complicity of the european union, of those of us here. the symbol of this complicity is durão barroso receiving an award at the hebrew university of jerusalem in occupied territories.
mr president, since 1948 israel has been violating all the resolutions of the united nations and also human rights and international law, and no european country has challenged its recognition. the recognition of the palestinian state is a responsibility and a moral obligation of the same countries that facilitated its partition in 1947. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the recognition of palestine will be a step which future generations will remember as europe's decision to put itself on the right side of history, something similar to what happened with apartheid in south africa: the countries that supported it are remembered with embarrassment today. the sakharov prize reminded us all in this house today that human dignity must be at the heart of all policies. the recognition of palestine is a basic test of whether or not there is the political will to seek peace and to stand against injustice and lawlessness. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. it is often said that there is no blind man who does not want to see. whoever has one of the largest armies in the world, whoever is crushing the population, whoever is occupying territories, tearing down and destroying the homes of the palestinians and driving them from their land, disrespecting and imprisoning women and children, as well as killing, is the aggressor. and, as the founding charter of the united nations says, every occupied people has the right to defend themselves.
mr president, mr mogherini, this debate expresses the exasperation of many european actors with regard to the deterioration of the israeli-palestinian conflict and the region as a whole. standing still is not an option and this resolution seeks to help move the whole of the european union towards recognition of the palestinian state. but this recognition must be mutual, because it must not be one-sided, but must also include the wisdom and courage of palestine in recognising the state of israel, because that is the only way to contribute to a secure peace in which two democratic states can coexist, committed to international law. that certainly requires the european union to encourage the creation of governance structures in a community that already exists as a people and is already settled on its territory, but which also requires the determination to live together in non-conflict and secure borders with a neighbouring state, with a neighbouring state and with a democratic state such as the state of israel.
mr president, i support the recognition of the palestinian state within the 1967 borders. palestine has been an observer in the un since 2012 and this recognition is an act of peace. it is based on negotiations, agreements and words to replace weapons and war. we prefer it to israel's unilateral and violent acts of occupation. and in europe, wars and brutal human rights violations made us realize the importance of peace. mahmoud abbas used exactly this idea in 2012 before the united nations general assembly. he convinced 138 countries, which hamas rockets failed to do. israel did not respond 'as usual' and did not give a hundredfold support to the palestinian desire for peace, and that is what it is doing with the violent aggressions it is suffering from, which we condemn without any qualification. let's help the chosen people understand that the palestinians are their fellow men, that they are people, that they are not enemies. thank you, mrs. mogherini, for all your efforts.
mr president, it is time for politics, as the plo's saeb erekat has said. and the recognition of the state of palestine is a 'most just' way of moving towards a just and lasting peace. it is also necessary to change the playing field, to alter the balance of power and to make dialogue possible. we need political audacity, facts on the ground and overcoming inertia. the recognition must also serve to give the palestinian people the dignity they deserve at international level. it is time to recognize the palestinian state. it's time, because palestine can't wait. peace in the middle east cannot wait.
mr president, mrs mogherini, thank you very much for being here and for your attitude, above all. for the european union, recognising the palestinian state is only the beginning. it means taking on a new active role in the conflict which the member states have been unable to stop or re-launch for so many years. an active role not just humanitarian or condemnatory rhetoric. to sum up that role, we could use six verbs in telegram: one, reopen the borders; two, avoid or close new and old settlements; three, systematically rebuild cities and facilities as many times as necessary; four, economically and politically sanction breaches and violations of un resolutions; five, prohibit or limit or control in any case the arms traffic; and six, be present, be there, send a delegation from this european parliament to gaza and, to some extent, adopt an attitude towards palestine as if it were our protectorate. that, i believe, is the responsibility of the european union when it recognizes the palestinian state.
blue card question. what is it? what do you mean by traditional and indissoluble family? don't you think that what children need is the love of their fathers, of their mothers, and that that is much more important than defending each one here his concept of family, you yours and i mine? do you not agree that what children need is the love and care of their parents?
mr. president, thank you, vice president dombrovskis for being here with us today. the congolese doctor who this morning was awarded the sakharov prize was telling us that in the democratic republic of congo, unfortunately, people have already become accustomed to seeing the images of violence and all the crimes that are happening there as normal in the media. unfortunately, we have to admit that the same thing is happening in europe today. every week, babies and children are abandoned in hospitals, on the streets, as in ancient rome in the imperial forum. they're abandoned and left to their own devices. many children are also dying crossing the straits, crossing the mediterranean. and all of this is linked to policies which the european union must of course tackle decisively now. i welcome the statements made earlier by the vice-president of the commission on this subject, because we also want greater coordination in legislation, not only at national level, but also at european level, so that whenever we are embarking on a legislative phase, this european parliament, the commission and all the european institutions take account of the rights of vulnerable children, who are without defence and, indeed, as one of our colleagues has acknowledged, without the necessary political support. i believe that here today, in this parliament, we are at last debating a subject which is a priority for all, but especially for those children who are abandoned and who have no one to defend them. we have solutions. we must better integrate policies and judicial actions, help europol so that there is greater coordination between all, and also so that we demand that the aid of the european union which, for example, goes to third countries, covers above all the children in these countries, who do not have that aid, and who do not reach them because it is lost along the way. as many of my colleagues have also said, it is necessary to defend the rights of children in the online world, this new world, where they are often not counted. and, above all, i wanted to specifically mention the helplines that children can call. twenty-one countries have them, but there are still a few european countries that have not adopted them.
mr president, 25 years ago we told the children that we would protect them, that we would take care of them. we told the boys; i do not know if we were also talking about the girls, because the reality of girls in this 25th anniversary of the convention is still very hard and there are some figures we need to know. over 700 million women in the world were married when they were minors. more than a third of them were under the age of 15. almost a quarter of adolescent girls aged 15 to 19 - 70 million worldwide - have been victims of some form of physical violence. one hundred and twenty million girls under the age of twenty - one in ten - have been subjected to forced sex. and a third of those victims had no idea that what was happening to them was an act of violence. half the teenage girls in the world believe that it is justified for a man to beat his wife under certain conditions. that is the reality of girls, and maybe girls should be talked about more, because they need even more support from the international community. they represent to a large extent the prospects for many countries to get ahead. they will be the women and mothers of the future, the ones who will give life and the ones who will be able to educate their sons and daughters. but until we connect discrimination against girls with the defence of the rights of boys and girls, we will not be able to close the huge gap between them and girls. it is the girls that we have to talk about on this 25th anniversary of the convention, because i think they are the great forgotten ones. dr mukwege has also given an example today of the importance of working with women and girls.
mr president, article 27 (3) of the convention reads as follows: 'states parties, ... shall, where necessary, provide material assistance and support programmes, particularly with respect to nutrition, clothing and housing.' if there is one picture that represents like no other the extent to which the economic crisis is preying on the weakest, it is the increase in child poverty. according to caritas, 28% of children in europe - their families - do not have enough income to cover their most basic needs. and to avoid this is not only a commitment made in the convention, it is a moral duty we have towards the present generation of europeans. we can, we must and i demand that, through the european social fund, we introduce a minimum income for integration, at least for low-income families with dependent children. i cannot think of a more laudable policy or a more honourable objective than to prevent children in europe today from going through the garbage, through the containers, in order to find something to eat. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to ensure that the rights of children are respected, and that the rights of children are protected.
mr president, this month we celebrate the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, which has been ratified by the entire european union, by 194 states. it is, without a doubt, the most comprehensive declaration of the rights of the child ever made. it demonstrates a global commitment to the protection of children's rights. since its adoption in 1989, conditions have certainly improved, but there is still a long way to go, because there are many forgotten and invisible children. they are those children -- millions of children around the world -- who are vulnerable, those children who are involved in armed conflict, orphaned children, child soldiers. more than half of the victims of human trafficking worldwide are children, and today many deaths of children who die from drinking water problems in developing countries could be prevented. two hundred million children under five are prevented from reaching their full potential by poverty, and almost half of those living in extreme poverty are children. these data tell us that we have a lot of work to do - also in the european union - because 27% of children are at risk of poverty. furthermore, sexual abuse is unfortunately still a real problem. the lives of thousands of children are at stake and therefore the implementation of the convention and the support of the union, the commission, all the institutions and society as a whole would end the suffering of thousands of children. that is why we call on the european union to promote the rights of the child with determination and to promote them on the international scene. the european union has signed the millennium declaration, which includes the millennium development goals, including reducing child mortality. it's to uphold the convention on the rights of the child. to finish, a reminder for the most vulnerable children, especially girls, disabled girls, immigrant girls. these groups must be given priority.
madam president, it is true that i am not a big fan of the g20. since the first summit in washington, following the collapse of lehman brothers, a series of unfulfilled initiatives and unfulfilled promises have been accumulating up to the present day: the abolition of tax havens, greater regulation of the financial systems, better governance mechanisms and a financial transaction tax. but we cannot ignore, commissioner, that the european union has once again focused the major concerns of this summit: growth rates close to zero, poverty and unemployment rates unbearable for global economic growth, the risk of deflation, a drastic devaluation of wages which has made us more vulnerable to economic conditions outside and, above all, more unfair inside. everyone is asking the european union to change. everyone is asking the european union to do more, but above all to do things differently to get out of the crisis and stimulate growth. they're asking us to use common sense. and in the meantime, all we are able to offer is a europe divided between those who want change and stimulus and those who resign themselves to austerity and failure. commissioner, monetary policy alone, however expansionary, will not get us out of the crisis. we need more ambitious fiscal stimulus than the one juncker put forward in parliament this morning. we need to bury the austerity demanded by germany and interpret the stability and growth pact in a flexible way. we need structural reforms that are fair, that do not depress domestic demand, that maintain the purchasing power of citizens. we need more revenue, we need to worry about revenue, we need to stop fraud, we need to stop tax evasion. we need to be able to get in to stimulate more. and finally, we need solidarity, high standards and a turnaround to avoid a lost decade in economic growth and, above all, a society defeated precisely because we are not able to change.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to say to the honourable members of the european parliament: thank you, first of all, for this debate and for your comments. we will surely take good note and make good use of those comments and recommendations as we embark on another g20 year under the leadership of turkey later this year. despite some critical assessments that i have heard, i am convinced that the g20 is here to stay. it is the only global forum which brings together both advanced and emerging countries, and it is indispensable for moving the global economy from crisis to recovery. the pace of the reform may be slower than we hoped for, but we also know this from our own experience in the eu. progress has to be made at the global level for it to be effective at all levels. brisbane was a g20 summit with a significant number of deliverables. we have strong coherence on global economic policies, which should help to foster recovery in europe too. several speakers also raised the question of security in a context of the situation in ukraine, and while this has not been a part of the official g20 agenda, it was discussed very much indeed on the side-lines of the g20 summit, and president juncker also had a serious conversation with the president of the russian federation, mr putin, as regards russia’s aggression against ukraine. for the g20, 2015 needs to be the year of delivering on implementation and completion of the agenda. the global growth strategy, financial regulation and tax should remain at the centre of its work, and we count on the support of this parliament to move this ambitious agenda forward.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a number of issues have been raised. mr mach and mr simon made particular reference to the need to combat tax evasion and avoidance. we must do it at the g20 level, we must do it in the new european legislature, where it will be essential to eliminate tax havens and to fight against tax evasion and avoidance, we must do it at the global level and take the necessary measures also within the european union. that was the spirit of our commitment during the presidency. i would remind you again of the important agreement on the exchange of information between tax administrations and on cooperation between administrations, which was reached in october and will be formally adopted in december. mr martin referred to the need to promote the trade agenda both multilaterally and bilaterally. on the sidelines of the g20, the united states, together with the european leaders, reaffirmed the importance of making all possible and necessary efforts to achieve an ambitious conclusion to ttip, and we also confirmed this to the council. during our presidency we have worked to make very significant progress, almost reaching the goal in the trade agreement with canada, and we have also made progress with singapore and japan. these are the points you have raised, mr simon, and i agree with them. mr jakovčić referred to the figure which was right to be mentioned, because that is the point of reference from which any proposal, not of economic theory but of concrete economic and social policy, must start, namely 200 million unemployed people worldwide. we need answers, we need significant commitments to promote participation in the labour market. it is very significant that a lot of space has also been devoted to this issue at the g20 level. we must certainly promote entrepreneurship, and we must take steps to help the most disadvantaged unemployed, starting with the disabled. and this emphasis on the most vulnerable by the g20 leaders seems to me to be something we need to work on a lot and something the european parliament can do a lot about in this european legislature, as well as we need to promote structural reforms starting with the labour market to promote employment. finally, mr gutiérrez prieto, mr balas and mr danti all spoke of the need, which we share as the presidency, for a change in global economic policy. and it seems to us that there have been different messages from different quarters at the g20 regarding the european union and the need to accelerate the change in the economic policy approach pursued at the level of the european union. this seems to us to be an important step. i agree with what you have said, we need new fiscal incentives, we need to make the most of the flexibility in the stability and growth pact. this is what our leaders wrote in the strategic agenda for the union in times of change in june. this is the starting point and we have been pleased to find it in the plan presented by president juncker this morning and in the words of president juncker and vice-president katainen, who have clearly stated that national contributions to the investment plan will be neutral from the point of view of the stability and growth pact. here's a clever application of the rules we have. it is clear that public expenditure on investment in pursuit of common european objectives cannot be regarded as current expenditure. we see it, we saw it this morning, there is a good application of this in the juncker plan. we hope - as we did in the general affairs council on cohesion policy - that this intelligent application of the rules we have will also extend to other investment instruments we have, starting with national and regional eco-financing within cohesion policy, which is another national contribution to the growth objectives and should also be considered neutral for the purposes of the stability and growth pact. finally, you mentioned the word solidarity: we too believe that much more solidarity is needed in the european union. the term solidarity is found 21 times in the european treaties. there are 21 articles on solidarity. we have not seen a coherent and convinced implementation of this theme of solidarity in various areas by the outgoing european commission in recent years and we hope that this will be a commitment that the three institutions will pursue together in the new legislature. mr etheridge invoked god in relation to economic policy and i understand that we can be inspired by the pope who addressed this house, but i do not think that we need to invoke god. it is enough to be men and politicians of good will to make the most of the enormous potential that the european union has to respond to the need for more growth and more jobs that our citizens rightly ask us to do.
once again the world's 20 largest economies have come together. this was the ninth summit since the start of the global crisis. the european union is going through a period of uncertainty with weak growth, although it is important to note that in those countries that have gone through difficult times and implemented structural reforms, these reforms have led them to lead growth in the euro area. i am pleased to know that the more than 1,000 measures put forward by all g20 members to accelerate growth and foster job creation from the beginning of next year could boost global gross domestic product (gdp) by 2.1% until 2018. this figure is supported by calculations by the international monetary fund (imf) and the organisation for cooperation and development (oecd). the g20 has promoted the global infrastructure initiative, a plan to boost public-private partnerships for the development of new infrastructure. i think the investment plan presented this morning by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, is a great example of this.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, welcome to this house at its first sitting. i think that because of his previous experience, because of his sensitivity to digital issues and therefore to the digital single market, we will have a person who will be really dedicated and will carry out a very interesting management. but sometimes these things are not dependent on personal will, they are dependent on many other factors. let me say to you and to this house the following. we're running out of time. we are running out of time for anyone to believe that in the european union it is possible to have a single market, a single digital market. we have repeated to our satisfaction what has been repeated here today, with all goodwill: the 500 million potential consumers, what this means in terms of gdp, or what the digital single market would mean in terms of european gdp, what it would mean in terms of job creation, and many other data that we use again and again to explain the extraordinary potential it has. but one thing is the potential and another is the reality. you need signs, you need evidence. because we need to build up a trust that is bubbling up everywhere in the european union. there's no trust and that's what needs to be restored. and so we need indications, we need signs, we need proof that we are really taking - as it is our duty as politicians, with leadership and political will - decisions that show the way, the evidence that we are going to create a digital single market. and i would like to refer in this context to what is pending and has not yet been achieved, the single telecommunications market. who is going to explain to the 500 million of us that it is not possible to have roaming charges which do not impose the burden they are imposing on citizens, businesses, professionals, etc.? who's going to explain it to him? that is why, vice-president, that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i believe it is essential that the single telecommunications market comes to an end and that we can enter into the trilogue and at least try to reach an agreement. because if we don't, your honor, we're going to run out of time.
mr president, i have been closely studying the google antitrust case for the past two years with andreas schwab, in a constructive way. last week we proposed a rotation mechanism as a possible solution. we have listened to the arguments of the 22 official complainants, including the european consumer organisation, so it is not a problem from the enterprise of only one country. google gives preferential treatment to its own services. this is the central issue – diverting traffic from rival links. now google has 90% of the market share in many eu member states. european enterprises are losing revenues and people are being fired. european consumers are not getting the most pertinent choice, because of google’s preferential treatment of its own services. we are not against google or any other us company. we are against monopolies, and we want a level playing field in the european digital market. we want fair and neutral search in the interest of consumers.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president good night, chief. from the basque country we want to applaud this commitment to industry, because it is the main agent of the real economy and the sector most able to offer stable and quality jobs, an antidote against unemployment and the best guarantee for our social model. steel is, along with energy, one of the keys to this process because of its horizontal presence in all industrial production. i ask you to remember in this plan that steel is and needs knowledge, because the differential in labour costs is not a good argument for competition. the future lies in our technological and management capacity. in short, the progress of the steel industry is based on people and their knowledge and on innovation. steel is and needs common sense. our legislation must assume that we are competing in a global market and we cannot allow third parties' social or environmental gaps to help them place their products here. steel is and needs stability and that means energy, finance and insurance on a level playing field for all. the competitiveness that some countries gain through innovation, effort and knowledge disappears because there is no equality in access to basic resources. a real medium- and long-term plan for infrastructure investment is also essential. steel is and needs, finally, consistency. the luxleaks earthquake should banish internal tax competition, which is damaging the public resources available in europe. the european treasuries must use their margin of manoeuvre to stimulate innovation. this is much fairer and more profitable for everyone. we hope that with this plan and the plan presented by mr juncker we can, together, make progress towards these objectives.
mr president, the european steel industry has problems which require a common plan of action: the high energy costs, which are the result of liberalization in favour of private oligopolies, and the challenges arising from ecological adaptation, which cannot be solved by emission markets. but these problems must be seen in their true context, that of the disappearance of industrial policy under the cloak of competition policy. when the european coal and steel community was founded, it was to coordinate production and investment between the member states, to improve the welfare of workers and the autonomy of the european economy. it was a successful approach that inspired many to dream of europe. what's left of that today? the european commission uses its competition policy to reinforce market trends rather than exert control over them, forcing workers and states to compete with each other to lower wages and social standards, deindustrialising whole regions along the way. this is what happened to the steel industry and other sectors in my country, spain. this is not the way, commissioner. if we want to return to the european dream, competition policy must be subordinated to productive convergence and quality employment, a source of rights.
mr president, the steel sector in europe faces many challenges. one of them is the management of emission allowances, because we must continue to lead the fight against climate change, but we must fight for competitive prices for industry in order to offer a stable future to the sector. another central problem, which has to do with the foregoing, is the cost of electricity supply. steel, like much of industry, is energy intensive, and electricity prices have reached unsustainable levels in many member states. it is vital, alongside climate change policy and security of supply, to offer energy prices, competitive electricity prices to industry that do not represent an insurmountable obstacle. in this connection, in my country we have in recent days seen the result of a new mechanism for electricity pricing for energy-intensive industry. one of these companies, alcoa, has announced that the result of this new system may be the closure of its plants in spain, asturias and galicia. and we cannot assume that there are industries that have to leave europe because of mistakes in badly designed regulations. we ourselves expelled a good part of industry from europe. i therefore take advantage of this debate to say that i will not leave the workers of alcoa in avilés, lugo and a coruña alone, and that we will fight for the revision of this new system of electricity pricing for intensive industry. i trust that parliament will support all the initiatives i will take in the coming days.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of hunger in the southern countries. but children in southern europe are also suffering from malnutrition. in my country, galicia, more than 20% of children live below the poverty line. in the spanish state, 60% more people are at risk of poverty and social exclusion today than in 2007. the cause of this situation is the policies of the european union, which make it possible for multinationals to steal the wealth of the people, which prevent them from developing their agriculture, which occupy their land, which impose free trade agreements that are ruinous for the people. without questioning these policies there will be no solution to hunger and malnutrition in the south, without putting an end to the troika policies hunger and malnutrition in the north will continue to advance. the european union's neoliberal policies must be radically changed, commissioner, by urgent measures such as putting an end to the predatory policies of the multinationals, ending free trade agreements, and adapting and changing agricultural and food policies within the framework of food sovereignty. anything less than progress in this direction will be empty words, and next year we will still be counting numbers of people who are malnourished, numbers of people who are starving to death.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you very much, mrs mcavan, for your excellent paper. talking about child malnutrition is no longer the exclusive privilege of developing countries. the figures for child poverty in large countries, in european countries such as my own, spain, are a source of shame and scandal. we are talking about three and a half million children who are not guaranteed adequate daily nutritional supply for their timely development, the physical and intellectual development that is essential to become first-class citizens, as we all strive for. how are we going to be able to work, to address and to end hunger in developing countries if we are able to allow this to be happening in the countries of the european union in 2015? you have mentioned agriculture, water and education for the developing countries. let me propose that we combine these issues with decent employment and nutritional and educational security, with universal child benefit in the countries of the european union. society must think about the future of children, but it is our obligation to act on their present. they have rights, but they don't have the capacity to enforce them, so it's up to us adults to defend them.
mr president, we do indeed proclaim and defend the right to food as a moral obligation. more than 165 million children under five are malnourished and approximately 52 million suffer from acute malnutrition. we are faced with an urgent challenge and an urgent need that must be met quickly. the initiative we are debating today is absolutely timely, very timely, and all the more so as this tuesday, in this very house, we voted with a very large majority 541 votes a resolution on the union and the global framework for development after 2015. the position of parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is unequivocally clear. we literally consider food to be a basic human right, in order to set a clear goal of zero hunger and end the hunger scandal by the year 2025 at the latest. we stress here that efforts to eradicate hunger, malnutrition and hidden hunger must focus especially on children and nursing mothers. i am very happy to note that in the united nations proposal for the new post-2015 development agenda one of the goals is to end all forms of malnutrition by the year 2030 by focusing on children. but we must open the field of vision more widely to achieve our goal and eradicate child malnutrition. efforts should be made to help developing countries improve in other areas, such as the provision of safe drinking water and sanitation, hygiene, sustainable agriculture, fisheries, the management of natural resources, the achievement of a healthy environment, measures to support women to ensure a healthy life for them and for all members of their households. in addition, family farming and its coherence with global land governance and tenure frameworks should be promoted.
mr president, i would first like to begin by acknowledging the role of the european union in development aid and the fight against child malnutrition. however, the food and financial crises since 2008 have caused these figures to rise again and put the achievement of the millennium development goals at risk. the commission's announcement of eur 3.5 billion to combat this situation is therefore a positive step, but more is needed. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community. in this multi-sectoral plan i would like to highlight three major objectives: the first objective, a programme of the first thousand days of a child, considered to be critical for their further development; the second, the promotion of small-scale agriculture; and, thirdly and no less importantly, the stimulation and promotion of women's participation in the distribution of resources, because it is clear and recognized that when women distribute resources within the family and control them, malnutrition within the family is much lower. so let's empower women, let's give them land ownership and let's educate women and girls.
mr president, with 3.1 million child deaths every year in developing countries, malnutrition is the leading cause of death in children under five. the fight against child malnutrition is and remains one of the main millennium development goals for 2015. when we talk about child malnutrition, we always link it to food insecurity and poverty, but also to unhealthy home environments and inadequate access to health services. today, 805 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a healthy life, most of them in sub-saharan africa and also in asia. one in nine people in the world is in this situation. there are also 66 million school-age children in the world who go to school hungry. the first thousand days of a child's life are crucial - as has been said here - for the child to grow up fully and for his dignity to be respected. it is therefore considered the most critical period for preventing malnutrition and its consequences in adulthood. it is true that the european union has made a considerable effort in all areas of development cooperation, but we still have to do more to overcome this problem, with innovative financing, but also with long-term financing. the aim is to be able to talk about the availability of food, the accessibility of food and also to adapt food to the needs of the children themselves. we need to invest more in health, in education, but also in equal opportunities. a large proportion of women and children working in agriculture, if they had the same rights and had the same opportunities and access to services as men, would not be in this situation. i therefore encourage the commission and the commissioner to work along these lines. above all, political will is needed to invest in these areas.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, our group advocates secularism, that is, the separation of religion and state. in this way, we protect all religions. i repeat, we protect all religions. that is why we cannot but protest against these blasphemy laws, because they violate international human rights conventions. that is why we are calling on the pakistani government to abolish them in order to comply with all international law. and they have signed the international covenant on civil and political rights, the convention against torture and even a moratorium on the death penalty. but we must not forget that the growth of religious extremists has much to do with western interference: the use of these extremist groups, the destabilisation of baluchistan or the use, for our beloved nobel peace prize, of extrajudicial killing by means of unmanned aerial vehicles.
in writing. podemos will vote against this resolution on grounds of form and substance. the resolution is in line with article 135 of the european parliament's rules of procedure on statements 'on urgent cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law'. the statements made by šešelj on the 23rd anniversary of vukovar, however incendiary they may have seemed to some, cannot be considered an urgent case to which article 135 applies. we believe that this article of the regulation should not be used in the particular interest of a member state, as might have happened in this case. furthermore, the resolution is one-sided and makes the responsibility of other parties to the conflict obvious by not mentioning the responsibility of gotovina, markač (also indicted by the international tribunal for the former yugoslavia for war crimes) or croatian paramilitary groups in the clashes in krajina or vukovar. the resolution also obviously condemns the ultra-nationalist and hateful statements that have been made in croatia. we can condemn any ultranationalist rhetoric that seeks to influence the political agenda of the region and hinders the reconciliation of the people of the former yugoslavia.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i miss to point out what happened in 2004, when the coalition authority repealed the 1959 civil code, the secular family statute - "the most advanced in the middle east" - that had emerged from the republican revolution, which granted rights to all women, regardless of their faith, and which was replaced by one that gave religious or tribal leaders the power to regulate family affairs through religious laws. i miss the condemnation of all actors, not just isis: iraqi government, multinational forces, military and security companies; as well as the demand to abolish in the laws all discrimination against women or the lgbt community. and so i think we are just going to abstain on this resolution.
i voted against the no-confidence motion. i consider this proposal from the far right to be populist. it is a proposal that will not contribute to a good image of the european union and i am glad that it has received so little support. mr juncker and his team must have the chance to show in the coming period that the commission will be able to tackle the problems of the european union and that it will also tackle taxation. i personally think that the problem of tax havens is not a legislative problem, for some it may be an ethical problem. i believe that if we want to tackle tax havens, then we should tackle them not by further tightening administrative conditions, but by reducing taxes across europe. we're going to try to do things so that companies don't have to go looking for tax havens. low taxes are the solution to preventing tax havens in europe in the future. i am not in favour of leaving the question of tax policy to the member states.
mr president, we have not seen anything good in this house today. we have seen how those who defend tax havens, such as the city of london, or those who take a stand against human rights, have submitted a motion of censure. but we have seen something even more sad: the socialists in this house, and in particular the spanish socialists, had the opportunity to support the motion of censure which we wanted to put forward against the man responsible for the existence of tax havens and against the man responsible for the austerity policies which are harming european citizens. today the spanish socialists have once again shown that they have great difficulty in turning words into deeds. they were the ones who supported the existence of this commission and they are the ones who have shown during this week that they are with juncker and with tax havens. bad news for democracy in our country and in europe.
in writing. - we voted against the motion of censure by the europhobes and extremists, although the socialists do not support mr juncker as president of the european commission. we were the first to ask him to appear before the european parliament and to present an action plan against tax evasion and avoidance throughout europe. in addition, an investigation into tax policy in luxembourg is under way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will not give them wings, nor will we align ourselves with marine le pen and the extremists in their cause. we asked for explanations and they have been given. we have asked for response measures and they have been put in place. and we asked for an investigation and it's unfolding. citizens today feel cheated and deceived when they hear that big companies avoid taxes while they are still being asked to make sacrifices. spanish socialists will continue to work to put an end to both.
in writing. juncker and his commission must be censured. our group, gue/ngl, proposed a motion of censure which, unfortunately, did not succeed, as neither the greens nor the s&d group agreed to sign it, implicitly supporting juncker. we cannot sign this motion of censure because it is put forward by the extreme right, which is only trying to take advantage of the climate created by the luxleaks scandal, without making any criticism of the system represented by juncker. that is why i abstained.
in writing. i voted against the motion of censure because to vote in favour of it is to support the groups which, from within the institution itself, are working for a non-europe. with this motion, your aim is not to improve the european project, but to help bring it to an end. the commission has also decided to carry out an independent investigation into the question of whether the tax benefits are legal or not and whether mr juncker has any responsibility in this matter. if he is found to be responsible, we will, as we have announced, demand the political consequences.
in writing. we voted against the motion of censure by the europhobes and extremists, although the socialists do not support mr juncker as president of the european commission. we were the first to ask him to appear before the european parliament and to present an action plan against tax evasion and avoidance throughout europe. in addition, an investigation into tax policy in luxembourg is under way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will not give them wings, nor will we align ourselves with marine le pen and the extremists in their cause. we asked for explanations and they have been given. we have asked for response measures and they have been put in place. and we asked for an investigation and it's unfolding. citizens today feel cheated and deceived when they hear that big companies avoid taxes while they are still being asked to make sacrifices. spanish socialists will continue to work to put an end to both.
in writing. - the motion of censure tabled by the europe of freedom and direct democracy (efdd) group against mr juncker responds to news revealed two weeks ago about a controversial tax framework which allows hundreds of multinationals to concentrate in luxembourg and reduce their taxation to record levels during the period when juncker was prime minister. having failed to support mr juncker to become president of the commission and condemning these socially unjust actions, there is no justification for supporting this motion tabled by those whose priority interest is not to work definitively on combating tax fraud and evasion and to harmonize taxation in europe, but on the contrary to question the eu itself and the need to move towards more eu. however, any action in this regard by anyone, but especially by those who have had high responsibilities, especially when large economic adjustments were applied to the citizenship on foot, is reprehensible. it would therefore be appropriate that, even beyond the possible legality of these actions, the lack of ethical justification calls for explanations and an investigation.
in writing. juncker and his commission must be censured. our group, gue/ngl, proposed a motion of censure which, unfortunately, did not succeed, as neither the greens nor the s&d group agreed to sign it, implicitly supporting juncker. we cannot sign this motion of censure because it is put forward by the extreme right, which is only trying to take advantage of the climate created by the luxleaks scandal, without making any criticism of the system represented by juncker. that is why i abstained.
in writing. we voted against the motion of censure by the europhobes and extremists, although the socialists do not support mr juncker as president of the european commission. we were the first to ask him to appear before the european parliament and to present an action plan against tax evasion and avoidance throughout europe. in addition, an investigation into tax policy in luxembourg is under way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will not give them wings, nor will we align ourselves with marine le pen and the extremists in their cause. we asked for explanations and they have been given. we have asked for response measures and they have been put in place. and we asked for an investigation and it's unfolding. citizens today feel cheated and deceived when they hear that big companies avoid taxes while they are still being asked to make sacrifices. spanish socialists will continue to work to put an end to both.
in writing. - i voted against the motion of censure tabled by the far-right meps against the european commission chaired by president juncker. you will never find me voting alongside those who only want to destroy the political project that has given europe its greatest period of peace and prosperity. i have full confidence in the team of the present college of commissioners and its president. the european union must improve the tax practices of its member states, moving swiftly towards greater tax harmonization and convergence. however, i believe that the motion of censure tabled has only one objective: to discredit and destroy the institutions of the european union.
in writing. - we voted against the motion of censure by the europhobes and extremists, although the socialists do not support mr juncker as president of the european commission. we were the first to ask him to appear before the european parliament and to present an action plan against tax evasion and avoidance throughout europe. in addition, an investigation into tax policy in luxembourg is under way.
in writing. we voted against the motion of censure by the europhobes and extremists, although the socialists do not support mr juncker as president of the european commission. we were the first to ask him to appear before the european parliament and to present an action plan against tax evasion and avoidance throughout europe. in addition, an investigation into tax policy in luxembourg is under way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will not give them wings, nor will we align ourselves with marine le pen and the extremists in their cause. we asked for explanations and they have been given. we have asked for response measures and they have been put in place. and we asked for an investigation and it's unfolding. citizens today feel cheated and deceived when they hear that big companies avoid taxes while they are still being asked to make sacrifices. spanish socialists will continue to work to put an end to both.
in writing. - jean-claude juncker and his commission should be censured. the gue/ngl put forward a motion of censure in the house from day one, which unfortunately did not succeed. at that time we made it clear that we would not accept support from far-right groups and we regret the decision of the greens/efa and s&d not to sign our motion, thus giving cover to juncker. we cannot vote in favour of the motion of censure put to the vote today because it was tabled by forces on the extreme right who only want to make political profit from the climate created by the luxembourg tax scandal without criticising the system that juncker represents. that is why we have abstained.
in writing. - i have not supported a motion of censure put forward by those who want to destroy the european project. i stood for election to the european parliament in may with the desire and the purpose of working towards making another europe a reality. a europe which, among other things, abolishes tax havens and opens up to fiscal harmonization and a new economic policy. we must continue to strive for an alternative europe, but without encouraging those who want to destroy the european union. my aim in this parliament is to recover the soul of europe, a project which was based on solidarity and social justice, and which today seems to be subscribed to a cold economic project.
in writing. we voted against the motion of censure by the europhobes and extremists, although the socialists do not support mr juncker as president of the european commission. we were the first to ask him to appear before the european parliament and to present an action plan against tax evasion and avoidance throughout europe. in addition, an investigation into tax policy in luxembourg is under way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will not give them wings, nor will we align ourselves with marine le pen and the extremists in their cause. we asked for explanations and they have been given. we have asked for response measures and they have been put in place. and we asked for an investigation and it's unfolding. citizens today feel cheated and deceived when they hear that big companies avoid taxes while they are still being asked to make sacrifices. spanish socialists will continue to work to put an end to both.
in writing. juncker and his commission must be censured. our group, gue/ngl, proposed a motion of censure which, unfortunately, did not succeed, as neither the greens nor the s&d group agreed to sign it, implicitly supporting juncker. we cannot sign this motion of censure because it is put forward by the extreme right, which is only trying to take advantage of the climate created by the luxleaks scandal, without making any criticism of the system represented by juncker. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - we voted against the motion of censure by the europhobes and extremists, although the socialists do not support mr juncker as president of the european commission. we were the first to ask him to appear before the european parliament and to present an action plan against tax evasion and avoidance throughout europe. in addition, an investigation into tax policy in luxembourg is under way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will not give them wings, nor will we align ourselves with marine le pen and the extremists in their cause. we asked for explanations and they have been given. we have asked for response measures and they have been put in place. and we asked for an investigation and it's unfolding. citizens today feel cheated and deceived when they hear that big companies avoid taxes while they are still being asked to make sacrifices. spanish socialists will continue to work to put an end to both.
in writing. - my abstention expresses the will of the coalition i represent to call president juncker's attention to his involvement in the so-called 'luxleaks'. we cannot support a motion of censure from the far right and the europe-haters, with many anti-european connotations, but we do see clear signs of action by mr juncker that casts doubt on his suitability as president of the european commission. this abstention is a call for action, for further explanations, for parliament to investigate thoroughly, down to the last consequences (resignation included), to clear any shadow of doubt about the actions of any member of the european commission.
in writing. juncker and his commission must be censured. our group has already voted against the election of juncker as president and also against the commission, because it is a commission designed to continue to deepen the neoliberal and austerity policies which are causing so much suffering to our peoples. our group, gue/ngl, proposed a motion of censure which, unfortunately, did not succeed, as neither the greens nor the s&d group agreed to sign it, implicitly supporting juncker. i cannot vote in favour of this motion of censure which is before us because it conceals the hypocrisy of the far right, which only seeks to take advantage of the climate created by the luxleaks scandal, without questioning or criticising the system represented by juncker. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - the motion of censure against the president of the commission is led by the european far right. we in our group are also critical of jean-claude juncker and we have a different understanding of what politics and economics should be in the eu, especially as regards the tax system. but we - who voted against his candidacy last month - cannot support this motion of censure because of the great gulf that separates us from what the far right wants and because we give the president of the commission some time to fulfil some of his commitments and our demands. i do think that a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the 'luxleaks' case is necessary, to bring to light all the information available and to identify the political leaders responsible for the case, and to establish responsibility.
in writing. juncker and his commission must be censured. our group, gue/ngl, proposed a motion of censure which, unfortunately, did not succeed, as neither the greens nor the s&d group agreed to sign it, implicitly supporting juncker. we cannot sign this motion of censure because it is put forward by the extreme right, which is only trying to take advantage of the climate created by the luxleaks scandal, without making any criticism of the system represented by juncker. that is why i abstained.
in writing. i was unable to vote in favour of this resolution. the delegated regulation provides for the establishment of the single resolution board for credit institutions and certain investment firms under a single resolution mechanism and a single bank resolution fund. it is proposed that this board should have an autonomous budget which is not part of the union budget and which should be financed by contributions from the banking sector, in particular contributions to the administrative expenses of the board to be borne by credit institutions, parent undertakings, investment firms and financial institutions covered by the srm regulation.
in writing. i was unable to vote in favour of this resolution. the delegated regulation provides for the establishment of the single resolution board for credit institutions and certain investment firms under a single resolution mechanism and a single bank resolution fund. it is proposed that this board should have an autonomous budget which is not part of the union budget and which should be financed by contributions from the banking sector, in particular contributions to the administrative expenses of the board to be borne by credit institutions, parent undertakings, investment firms and financial institutions covered by the srm regulation.
in writing. i was unable to vote in favour of this resolution. the delegated regulation provides for the establishment of the single resolution board for credit institutions and certain investment firms under a single resolution mechanism and a single bank resolution fund. it is proposed that this board should have an autonomous budget which is not part of the union budget and which should be financed by contributions from the banking sector, in particular contributions to the administrative expenses of the board to be borne by credit institutions, parent undertakings, investment firms and financial institutions covered by the srm regulation.
in writing. i was unable to vote in favour of this resolution. the delegated regulation provides for the establishment of the single resolution board for credit institutions and certain investment firms under a single resolution mechanism and a single bank resolution fund. it is proposed that this board should have an autonomous budget which is not part of the union budget and which should be financed by contributions from the banking sector, in particular contributions to the administrative expenses of the board to be borne by credit institutions, parent undertakings, investment firms and financial institutions covered by the srm regulation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because the council and the commission may be, and have been, engaged in a battle over who is responsible for the delay in the implementation of cohesion policy, but the fact is that what has failed so far is the design of cohesion policy itself and its management. the implementation of the new regional policy should be more efficient and simpler, the exact opposite of what is happening in reality: bills approved but not paid, operational programmes pending, municipalities unable to participate in partnerships... we are witnessing an increase in inequalities between the different regions of the eu. and it is therefore urgent that the eu act to reverse this trend because, as always, it is the citizens of europe who are paying the price.
in writing. it is only 21 days since the new regional policy commissioner took office. that is a very short time to be able to reproach him for the way he has been carrying out his duties. it is true, however, that european solidarity as represented by cohesion policy does not have the 100 days of grace that we in democracy grant to those who take on a new government role. despite the backlog since january this year, i am confident, as is my group, that the new commissioner will be able to give the necessary impetus to the programming of european cohesion policy. the adoption of operational programmes should be accelerated as much as possible in order to avoid further delays in their implementation. the college of commissioners must find urgent solutions and clear commitments to the problems linked to the lack of co-financing and the defaults incurred by the commission itself, which also substantially affect the normal development of cohesion policy, to the detriment, precisely, of those citizens and those regions and countries most affected by the crisis and unemployment and most in need of european solidarity.
in writing. - the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 should have started in january this year, but the programming period is far from over. it is estimated that only 100 programmes will be operational by the end of the year. the regi commission contacts the european commission to find out the status of the association agreements, the operational programmes (ops) and the timetable for their implementation, as well as the problems encountered and the measures it intends to take.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because the council and the commission may be, and have been, engaged in a battle over who is responsible for the delay in the implementation of cohesion policy, but the fact is that what has failed so far is the design of cohesion policy itself and its management. the implementation of the new regional policy should be more efficient and simpler, the exact opposite of what is happening in reality: bills approved but not paid, operational programmes pending, municipalities unable to participate in partnerships... we are witnessing an increase in inequalities between the different regions of the eu. and it is therefore urgent that the eu act to reverse this trend because, as always, it is the citizens of europe who are paying the price.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of this resolution, believing that the motion presents a coherent and critical view of the delays by the commission in cohesion policy. we consider it very serious that the commission is lagging behind in mobilising cohesion policy funds, which are its only expenditure on social policy. however, the resolution makes an ambiguous reference to the juncker stimulus plan which we do not understand and which we believe has no place in cohesion policy. in no way should our support for this resolution be understood as support for the juncker stimulus plan.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of this resolution, believing that the motion presents a coherent and critical view of the delays by the commission in cohesion policy. we consider it very serious that the commission is lagging behind in mobilising cohesion policy funds, which are its only expenditure on social policy. however, the resolution makes an ambiguous reference to the juncker stimulus plan which we do not understand and which we believe has no place in cohesion policy. in no way should our support for this resolution be understood as support for the juncker stimulus plan.
in writing. - i am concerned about the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, which should have started in january this year and is running significantly behind schedule. parliament has adopted a resolution expressing its concern not only about the current programming but also about possible defaults on payments from the previous period. we hope to speed up the process and avoid further delays.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because the council and the commission may be, and have been, engaged in a battle over who is responsible for the delay in the implementation of cohesion policy, but the fact is that what has failed so far is the design of cohesion policy itself and its management. the implementation of the new regional policy should be more efficient and simpler, the exact opposite of what is happening in reality: bills approved but not paid, operational programmes pending, municipalities unable to participate in partnerships... we are witnessing an increase in inequalities between the different regions of the eu. and it is therefore urgent that the eu act to reverse this trend because, as always, it is the citizens of europe who are paying the price.
in writing. it is only 21 days since the new regional policy commissioner took office. that is a very short time to be able to reproach him for the way he has been carrying out his duties. it is true, however, that european solidarity as represented by cohesion policy does not have the 100 days of grace that we in democracy grant to those who take on a new government role. despite the backlog since january this year, i am confident, as is my group, that the new commissioner will be able to give the necessary impetus to the programming of european cohesion policy. the adoption of operational programmes should be accelerated as much as possible in order to avoid further delays in their implementation. the college of commissioners must find urgent solutions and clear commitments to the problems linked to the lack of co-financing and the defaults incurred by the commission itself, which also substantially affect the normal development of cohesion policy, to the detriment, precisely, of those citizens and those regions and countries most affected by the crisis and unemployment and most in need of european solidarity.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of this resolution, believing that the motion presents a coherent and critical view of the delays by the commission in cohesion policy. we consider it very serious that the commission is lagging behind in mobilising cohesion policy funds, which are its only expenditure on social policy. however, the resolution makes an ambiguous reference to the juncker stimulus plan which we do not understand and which we believe has no place in cohesion policy. in no way should our support for this resolution be understood as support for the juncker stimulus plan.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because the council and the commission may be, and have been, engaged in a battle over who is responsible for the delay in the implementation of cohesion policy, but the fact is that what has failed so far is the design of cohesion policy itself and its management. the implementation of the new regional policy should be more efficient and simpler, the exact opposite of what is happening in reality: bills approved but not paid, operational programmes pending, municipalities unable to participate in partnerships... we are witnessing an increase in inequalities between the different regions of the eu. and it is therefore urgent that the eu act to reverse this trend because, as always, it is the citizens of europe who are paying the price.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because the council and the commission may be, and have been, engaged in a battle over who is responsible for the delay in the implementation of cohesion policy, but the fact is that what has failed so far is the design of cohesion policy itself and its management. the implementation of the new regional policy should be more efficient and simpler, the exact opposite of what is happening in reality: bills approved but not paid, operational programmes pending, municipalities unable to participate in partnerships... we are witnessing an increase in inequalities between the different regions of the eu. and it is therefore urgent that the eu act to reverse this trend because, as always, it is the citizens of europe who are paying the price.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of this resolution because i have serious doubts about the credibility of the commission's impact assessments on smes. in my view, these evaluations are a mere formality, a procedure which in no way calls into question the interests of the big lobbyists, who are the ones who set the eu's legislative proposals. to help smes, we should put an end to the neoliberal policies of the eu, to the privatisations, liberalisations, cuts and austerity which are killing the internal market in the different eu countries.
in writing. impact assessments are a key tool for decision-making in all eu institutions and for providing transparent, comprehensive and balanced evidence of the economic, social and environmental impacts, the added value of eu action, the regulatory and administrative burden to be expected, and the costs and benefits of alternative pathways for all parties involved in the legislative process. however, impact assessments cannot replace policy evaluations and decisions and therefore the parliamentary committees of this house should systematically examine the commission's impact assessments. in addition, impact assessments need to pay particular attention to the impact of future legislation on smes. given that the cost of complying with a regulation for an sme can be up to ten times higher than for large companies, it is vital to carry out an independent, rigorous and high-quality impact assessment. i have voted in favour of this resolution to urge the commission to include all these issues in the draft revised impact assessment guidelines.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of this resolution because i have serious doubts about the credibility of the commission's impact assessments on smes. in my view, these evaluations are a mere formality, a procedure which in no way calls into question the interests of the big lobbyists, who are the ones who set the eu's legislative proposals. to help smes, we should put an end to the neoliberal policies of the eu, to the privatisations, liberalisations, cuts and austerity which are killing the internal market in the different eu countries.
in writing. the european commission has started a process to amend the guidelines on impact assessments. impact assessments are an objective study that the commission carries out for each legislative proposal. in our experience in parliament we have seen how the committee's impact assessments argue against the very legislative proposals that the commission presents, for example, by showing greater environmental sensitivity. in any case, they require an objective and general view of the effects of legislative initiatives. the commission proposal is less specific in terms of the scope of the studies, leaving it more to the discretion of the relevant directorate-general to decide whether impact assessments are necessary and on which issues, opening the door to the possibility of doing without them in many cases. we have therefore voted in favour of the joint resolution of the european parliament, which calls for the mandatory and comprehensive nature of impact assessments to be maintained as far as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the review of the impact assessment of european legislation as a first step by the union towards simplifying the rules for smes to encourage job creation. it should be remembered - as i said in my speech last monday - that in the eu countries, smes account for nearly 70% of the working population, a percentage which in spain rises to 98%. that's why we have to be much more ambitious. we must get better guidelines in place that really help businesses across the eu to be more productive, and to help to create growth and jobs in all 28 member states, but especially in those that suffer from worryingly high unemployment rates that persist over time.
in writing. the european commission has started a process to amend the guidelines on impact assessments. impact assessments are an objective study that the commission carries out for each legislative proposal. in our experience in parliament we have seen how the committee's impact assessments argue against the very legislative proposals that the commission presents, for example, by showing greater environmental sensitivity. in any case, they require an objective and general view of the effects of legislative initiatives. the commission proposal is less specific in terms of the scope of the studies, leaving it more to the discretion of the relevant directorate-general to decide whether impact assessments are necessary and on which issues, opening the door to the possibility of doing without them in many cases. we have therefore voted in favour of the joint resolution of the european parliament, which calls for the mandatory and comprehensive nature of impact assessments to be maintained as far as possible.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of this resolution because i have serious doubts about the credibility of the commission's impact assessments on smes. in my view, these evaluations are a mere formality, a procedure which in no way calls into question the interests of the big lobbyists, who are the ones who set the eu's legislative proposals. to help smes, we should put an end to the neoliberal policies of the eu, to the privatisations, liberalisations, cuts and austerity which are killing the internal market in the different eu countries.
in writing. impact assessments are a key tool for decision-making in all eu institutions and for providing transparent, comprehensive and balanced evidence of the economic, social and environmental impacts, the added value of eu action, the regulatory and administrative burden to be expected, and the costs and benefits of alternative pathways for all parties involved in the legislative process. however, impact assessments cannot replace policy evaluations and decisions and therefore the parliamentary committees of this house should systematically examine the commission's impact assessments. in addition, impact assessments need to pay particular attention to the impact of future legislation on smes. given that the cost of complying with a regulation for an sme can be up to ten times higher than for large companies, it is vital to carry out an independent, rigorous and high-quality impact assessment. i have voted in favour of this resolution to urge the commission to include all these issues in the draft revised impact assessment guidelines.
in writing. the european commission has started a process to amend the guidelines on impact assessments. impact assessments are an objective study that the commission carries out for each legislative proposal. in our experience in parliament we have seen how the committee's impact assessments argue against the very legislative proposals that the commission presents, for example, by showing greater environmental sensitivity. in any case, they require an objective and general view of the effects of legislative initiatives. the commission proposal is less specific in terms of the scope of the studies, leaving it more to the discretion of the relevant directorate-general to decide whether impact assessments are necessary and on which issues, opening the door to the possibility of doing without them in many cases. we have therefore voted in favour of the joint resolution of the european parliament, which calls for the mandatory and comprehensive nature of impact assessments to be maintained as far as possible.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of this resolution because i have serious doubts about the credibility of the commission's impact assessments on smes. in my view, these evaluations are a mere formality, a procedure which in no way calls into question the interests of the big lobbyists, who are the ones who set the eu's legislative proposals. to help smes, we should put an end to the neoliberal policies of the eu, to the privatisations, liberalisations, cuts and austerity which are killing the internal market in the different eu countries.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of this resolution because i have serious doubts about the credibility of the commission's impact assessments on smes. in my view, these evaluations are a mere formality, a procedure which in no way calls into question the interests of the big lobbyists, who are the ones who set the eu's legislative proposals. to help smes, we should put an end to the neoliberal policies of the eu, to the privatisations, liberalisations, cuts and austerity which are killing the internal market in the different eu countries.
in writing. - in these 25 years there has been progress, but we are still far from meeting the objectives set out in the convention on the rights of the child. old unresolved challenges are joined by new problems that deprive millions of children of their rights. the current economic crisis is most clearly reflected in the increase in child poverty, a phenomenon which, far from being confined to developing regions of the world, also seriously affects many european countries, and in particular spain. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which, although it could go further in its demands, makes a clear call for member states with high rates of child poverty to redouble their efforts and investments to reduce it and to combat the social exclusion of children. the socialists will continue to demand that a minimum income be guaranteed, co-financed by the european social fund and national budgets, for low-income families with dependent children. specific measures are also needed to protect the rights of girls, who are the most severely affected by violence and gender discrimination worldwide.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution as it represents an opportunity to put the rights of children on the political agenda. a lot has changed since the un convention was created and passed, for better and for worse. and this has been taken into account in the resolution we have adopted. we must put children and young people at the heart of our policies and involve them in decision-making processes. we must empower them to maintain their integrity and their fundamental rights, such as education and food. unfortunately, no country, not even the signatories, has created the full conditions for the convention to be fully implemented. more than 20% of children are affected by austerity, which prevents them from having access to basic services and from being able to fully exercise their fundamental rights. the violations of children's rights are especially painful when we talk about migrant children, especially in terms of health. the example of child soldiers is bloody. the interests of the belligerents are put before the interests of the minors.
in writing. progress has been made in the last 25 years, but we are still far from meeting the objectives set out in the convention on the rights of the child. to old unresolved challenges, new problems are added that deprive millions of children of their rights. the current economic crisis is most clearly reflected in the increase in child poverty, a phenomenon which, far from being confined to developing regions of the world, also seriously affects many european countries, and in particular spain. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which, although it could go further in its demands, makes a clear call for member states with high rates of child poverty to redouble their efforts and investments to reduce it and to combat the social exclusion of children. the socialists will continue to demand that a minimum income be guaranteed, co-financed by the european social fund and national budgets, for low-income families with dependent children. it is also essential to develop specific measures to protect the rights of girls, victims of violence and gender discrimination, who are being violated even more severely throughout the world.
in writing. - on 20 november, the united nations general assembly marked 25 years since the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child. since then, remarkable progress has been made, from reducing infant mortality to improving the schooling rate - especially for girls - but more remains to be done. old challenges, still unresolved, are joined by new ones. the situation of children in relation to armed conflict is one of the five strategic priorities of the subcommittee on human rights. the debate on this item in the plenary, with the high representative/vice-president of the commission present, addresses the issue of the increase in child poverty. the text calls on member states with above-average child poverty rates to set national targets and prioritise investments to reduce child poverty and combat social exclusion of children and young people. it also asks them, together with the european commission, to integrate a specific focus on children and youth into the european semester, the annual growth survey and a renewed europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution as it represents an opportunity to put the rights of children on the political agenda. a lot has changed since the un convention was created and passed, for better and for worse. and this has been taken into account in the resolution we have adopted. we must put children and young people at the heart of our policies and involve them in decision-making processes. we must empower them to maintain their integrity and their fundamental rights, such as education and food. unfortunately, no country, not even the signatories, has created the full conditions for the convention to be fully implemented. more than 20% of children are affected by austerity, which prevents them from having access to basic services and from being able to fully exercise their fundamental rights. the violations of children's rights are especially painful when we talk about migrant children, especially in terms of health. the example of child soldiers is bloody. the interests of the belligerents are put before the interests of the minors.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution as we consider the united nations convention on the rights of the child (uncrc) and its optional protocols to be a fundamental standard for the promotion and protection of children's rights, containing a comprehensive set of international legal standards for the protection and well-being of children and setting clear legal obligations for all eu member states to promote, protect and fulfil the rights of all children within their jurisdiction. i also believe that the unced, as well as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, respect the rights of the child to be heard and to express his or her opinion and to have it taken into account in all matters affecting him or her according to his or her age and maturity, which is fundamental when addressing the issue of child labour and its regulation; an example of this is the recently approved code of the girl, child and adolescent of bolivia.
in writing. - in the years since the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child, more progress has been made in the realization and protection of children's rights than in any comparable period in human history, and children's rights are now more important than ever in policy-making. the almost universal ratification of the convention reflects the world's, and also the eu's, commitment to the principles underpinning children's rights. in all parts of the world, institutions, structures, programmes and special measures have emerged to promote children's rights. together with its three optional protocols, it contains a fairly comprehensive set of legally binding international standards for the promotion and protection of the rights of the child. together with other international and regional standards, including those adopted by the council of europe, those instruments provide a solid basis for the enjoyment of human rights by all children without discrimination of any kind, while providing a reference point for the promotion and monitoring of progress in the enjoyment of children's rights.
in writing. progress has been made in the last 25 years, but we are still far from meeting the objectives set out in the convention on the rights of the child. to old unresolved challenges, new problems are added that deprive millions of children of their rights. the current economic crisis is most clearly reflected in the increase in child poverty, a phenomenon which, far from being confined to developing regions of the world, also seriously affects many european countries, and in particular spain. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which, although it could go further in its demands, makes a clear call for member states with high rates of child poverty to redouble their efforts and investments to reduce it and to combat the social exclusion of children. the socialists will continue to demand that a minimum income be guaranteed, co-financed by the european social fund and national budgets, for low-income families with dependent children. it is also essential to develop specific measures to protect the rights of girls, victims of violence and gender discrimination, who are being violated even more severely throughout the world.
in writing. - in these 25 years there has been progress, but we are still far from meeting the objectives set out in the convention on the rights of the child. i voted in favour of this resolution because it makes a clear call for member states with high rates of child poverty to redouble their efforts and investments to reduce it and to combat the social exclusion of children. the socialists will continue to demand that a minimum income be guaranteed, co-financed by the european social fund and national budgets, for low-income families with dependent children.
in writing. progress has been made in the last 25 years, but we are still far from meeting the objectives set out in the convention on the rights of the child. to old unresolved challenges, new problems are added that deprive millions of children of their rights. the current economic crisis is most clearly reflected in the increase in child poverty, a phenomenon which, far from being confined to developing regions of the world, also seriously affects many european countries, and in particular spain. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which, although it could go further in its demands, makes a clear call for member states with high rates of child poverty to redouble their efforts and investments to reduce it and to combat the social exclusion of children. the socialists will continue to demand that a minimum income be guaranteed, co-financed by the european social fund and national budgets, for low-income families with dependent children. it is also essential to develop specific measures to protect the rights of girls, victims of violence and gender discrimination, who are being violated even more severely throughout the world.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution as we consider the united nations convention on the rights of the child (uncrc) and its optional protocols to be a fundamental standard for the promotion and protection of children's rights, containing a comprehensive set of international legal standards for the protection and well-being of children and setting clear legal obligations for all eu member states to promote, protect and fulfil the rights of all children within their jurisdiction. i also believe that the unced, as well as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, respect the rights of the child to be heard and to express his or her opinion and to have it taken into account in all matters affecting him or her according to his or her age and maturity, which is fundamental when addressing the issue of child labour and its regulation; an example of this is the recently approved code of the girl, child and adolescent of bolivia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child because i am convinced that in this quarter of a century we have made great progress in the protection of children, but we still have a long way to go. in the less developed countries, including some in latin america, hundreds of thousands of children live in extreme poverty, are forced to work, have no access to education or are victims of abuse of all kinds. the eu must be aware of this reality and help to combat it, just as we must also combat the reality of child poverty when it occurs here in europe. the countries that have suffered the most from the crisis - for example, spain - have once again seen the terrible face of child poverty, which we thought we had forgotten, and in which the spanish government chooses to remain inactive, refusing even to collect data on the phenomenon. however, denying reality does not help to change it, quite the opposite.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of children against the dangers of ionizing radiation. the convention acquired binding status in september 1990 after being ratified by 20 states and almost all states have now acceded to it. in this quarter of a century, remarkable progress has been made, from reducing child mortality to improving the rate of schooling - especially for girls - but this symbolic date also serves as a reminder of how much remains to be done. old unresolved challenges have been joined by new ones that deprive many children of both their rights and the benefits of development. in this context, unicef decided to declare 2014 the year of innovation for equity with the purpose of focusing global attention on the presentation and development of innovative solutions that promote the well-being of children.
in writing. progress has been made in the last 25 years, but we are still far from meeting the objectives set out in the convention on the rights of the child. to old unresolved challenges, new problems are added that deprive millions of children of their rights. the current economic crisis is most clearly reflected in the increase in child poverty, a phenomenon which, far from being confined to developing regions of the world, also seriously affects many european countries, and in particular spain. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which, although it could go further in its demands, makes a clear call for member states with high rates of child poverty to redouble their efforts and investments to reduce it and to combat the social exclusion of children. the socialists will continue to demand that a minimum income be guaranteed, co-financed by the european social fund and national budgets, for low-income families with dependent children. it is also essential to develop specific measures to protect the rights of girls, victims of violence and gender discrimination, who are being violated even more severely throughout the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution as it represents an opportunity to put the rights of children on the political agenda. a lot has changed since the un convention was created and passed, for better and for worse. and this has been taken into account in the resolution we have adopted. we must put children and young people at the heart of our policies and involve them in decision-making processes. we must empower them to maintain their integrity and their fundamental rights, such as education and food. unfortunately, no country, not even the signatories, has created the full conditions for the convention to be fully implemented. more than 20% of children are affected by austerity, which prevents them from having access to basic services and from being able to fully exercise their fundamental rights. the violations of children's rights are especially painful when we talk about migrant children, especially in terms of health. the example of child soldiers is bloody. the interests of the belligerents are put before the interests of the minors.
in writing. - in these 25 years there has been progress, but we are still far from meeting the objectives set out in the convention on the rights of the child. old unresolved challenges are joined by new problems that deprive millions of children of their rights. the current economic crisis is most clearly reflected in the increase in child poverty, a phenomenon which, far from being confined to developing regions of the world, also seriously affects many european countries, and in particular spain. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which, although it could go further in its demands, makes a clear call for member states with high rates of child poverty to redouble their efforts and investments to reduce it and to combat the social exclusion of children. the socialists will continue to demand that a minimum income be guaranteed, co-financed by the european social fund and national budgets, for low-income families with dependent children. specific measures are also needed to protect the rights of girls, who are the most severely affected by violence and gender discrimination worldwide.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution as we consider the united nations convention on the rights of the child (uncrc) and its optional protocols to be a fundamental standard for the promotion and protection of children's rights, containing a comprehensive set of international legal standards for the protection and well-being of children and setting clear legal obligations for all eu member states to promote, protect and fulfil the rights of all children within their jurisdiction. i also believe that the unced, as well as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, respect the rights of the child to be heard and to express his or her opinion and to have it taken into account in all matters affecting him or her according to his or her age and maturity, which is fundamental when addressing the issue of child labour and its regulation; an example of this is the recently approved code of the girl, child and adolescent of bolivia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution as it represents an opportunity to put the rights of girls and boys on the political agenda. a lot has changed since the un convention was created and passed, both positively and negatively. this has been taken into account in the resolution adopted. we must put girls, boys and young people at the heart of our policies; involve them in decision-making processes and empower them to maintain their integrity, their fundamental rights such as education, health and food. unfortunately, no country (not even the signatories) has created the full conditions for the convention to be fully implemented. millions of people worldwide suffer from hunger and malnutrition, including in the villages of southern europe, because of debt and austerity policies. in my own country, galicia, more than 20% of girls and boys are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. these same policies prevent them from having access to basic services and from being able to fully exercise their fundamental rights. the violations of children's rights are especially painful when we talk about migrant children, especially in terms of health. the example of child soldiers is bloody.
in writing. the united nations convention on the rights of the child was adopted in 1989 with the aim of promoting and protecting children's rights. twenty-five years later, and although we can see progress in this area, violations of the rights of this vulnerable group continue to be committed. many millions of children are still victims of violence and poverty. it is therefore essential that the eu makes the protection of children's rights a priority in all areas of its foreign policy. moreover, the infringement of these rights is not only occurring outside the eu but also within its member states. children are particularly vulnerable to the cuts in social spending that have fuelled the aggressive austerity policies led by the troika. the eu and its member states need to promote additional measures to address this situation, for example by increasing and prioritising investments to reduce poverty and social exclusion among children and young people. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child.
in writing. - in these 25 years there has been progress, but we are still far from meeting the objectives set out in the convention on the rights of the child. old unresolved challenges are joined by new problems that deprive millions of children of their rights. the current economic crisis is most clearly reflected in the increase in child poverty, a phenomenon which, far from being confined to developing regions of the world, also seriously affects many european countries, and in particular spain. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which, although it could go further in its demands, makes a clear call for member states with high rates of child poverty to redouble their efforts and investments to reduce it and to combat the social exclusion of children. the socialists will continue to demand that a minimum income be guaranteed, co-financed by the european social fund and national budgets, for low-income families with dependent children. specific measures are also needed to protect the rights of girls, who are the most severely affected by violence and gender discrimination worldwide.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution as it represents an opportunity to put the rights of children on the political agenda. a lot has changed since the un convention was created and passed, for better and for worse. and this has been taken into account in the resolution we have adopted. we must put children and young people at the heart of our policies and involve them in decision-making processes. we must empower them to maintain their integrity and their fundamental rights, such as education and food. unfortunately, no country, not even the signatories, has created the full conditions for the convention to be fully implemented. more than 20% of children are affected by austerity, which prevents them from having access to basic services and from being able to fully exercise their fundamental rights. the violations of children's rights are especially painful when we talk about migrant children, especially in terms of health. the example of child soldiers is bloody. the interests of the belligerents are put before the interests of the minors.
in writing. what really needs to be ensured is net neutrality, which should be explicitly enshrined in the regulation. in order to ensure full consumer protection, there should be a legislative package to that end, which unfortunately does not exist, which allows the secret services to spy on citizens at will. i think that this resolution is not demanding enough in this respect, and that is why i have abstained.
in writing. according to the estimates of the eu authorities, the achievement of a genuine digital single market would bring the eu €260 billion of additional growth over the course of the legislature, which would translate into a major boost to employment; it is not without reason that the demand for ict workers by 2020 is estimated to amount to 900 000 highly skilled, quality and remunerated jobs. the commission has shown its commitment to making this a reality in this parliament. we must move from words to deeds. europe cannot afford 28 fractured national markets in crucial areas such as telecommunications, data protection, copyright, cloud computing. only 25% of european citizens have 4g coverage (in rural areas, 4%), while in the united states, 90% of the population has it. progress is needed, and fast, to correct this situation by investing in quality network infrastructures that enable citizens and businesses to thrive in the new environment. it is urgent to end the fragmentation of the current 28 digital markets, ensure universal access to the network and make network security, net neutrality and consumer confidence the keys to the sdm.
in writing. what really needs to be ensured is net neutrality, which should be explicitly enshrined in the regulation. in order to ensure full consumer protection, there should be a legislative package to that end, which unfortunately does not exist, which allows the secret services to spy on citizens at will. i think that this resolution is not demanding enough in this respect, and that is why i have abstained.
in writing. we voted against this resolution on the digital single market because, despite the immense economic, political and social potential that the digital space opens up for european societies, the logic of the community legislator repeatedly attacks the principles of liberalisation, deregulation, privatisation and the principle of free competition as the only regulatory criteria. we have supported amendments which seek to democratize and facilitate access to the digital space for citizens and which seek to dismantle monopoly positions within the single market. but we believe that the regulation of the digital space should be based on democratic criteria and social utility rather than the logic of private profit. the digital space must be open to citizens, not just consumers.
in writing. we voted against this resolution on the digital single market because, despite the immense economic, political and social potential that the digital space opens up for european societies, the logic of the community legislator repeatedly attacks the principles of liberalisation, deregulation, privatisation and the principle of free competition as the only regulatory criteria. we have supported amendments which seek to democratize and facilitate access to the digital space for citizens and which seek to dismantle monopoly positions within the single market. but we believe that the regulation of the digital space should be based on democratic criteria and social utility rather than the logic of private profit. the digital space must be open to citizens, not just consumers.
in writing. - to make a genuine digital single market (dsm) a real priority. it is estimated that 900 000 ict skilled people will be needed in europe in the coming years. the training of women must therefore be a priority for europe, given the opportunity it offers for the creation of young and skilled jobs. the digital single market thus opens up new opportunities to boost the economy. there is a clear correlation between high levels of online sales and gdp per capita growth. it is therefore urgent to make progress towards a genuine crossborder e-commerce and to advance cloud computing. one of the major objectives is to end the fragmentation of the current 28 digital markets, as well as to ensure universal access to the network and to make network security, net neutrality and consumer confidence the cornerstones of the sdm. the use of electronic administration would also save €100 billion a year in the eu and the use of electronic invoices would save €40 billion.
in writing. what really needs to be ensured is net neutrality, which should be explicitly enshrined in the regulation. in order to ensure full consumer protection, there should be a legislative package to that end, which unfortunately does not exist, which allows the secret services to spy on citizens at will. i think that this resolution is not demanding enough in this respect, and that is why i have abstained.
in writing. according to the eu authorities' calculations, the achievement of a genuine digital single market would bring the eu €260 billion of additional growth over the legislature, which would translate into a significant boost to employment; it is not without reason that the demand for ict workers by 2020 is estimated to amount to 900 000 highly skilled, quality and remunerated jobs. the commission has shown its commitment to making this a reality in this parliament. we must move from words to deeds. europe cannot afford 28 fractured national markets in crucial areas such as telecommunications, data protection, copyright, cloud computing. only 25% of european citizens have 4g coverage (in rural areas, 4%), while in the united states, 90% of the population has it. progress is needed, and fast, to correct this situation by investing in quality network infrastructures that enable citizens and businesses to thrive in the new environment. it is urgent to end the fragmentation of the current 28 digital markets, ensure universal access to the network and make network security, net neutrality and consumer confidence the keys to the sdm. that is why i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. we voted against this resolution on the digital single market because, despite the immense economic, political and social potential that the digital space opens up for european societies, the logic of the community legislator repeatedly attacks the principles of liberalisation, deregulation, privatisation and the principle of free competition as the only regulatory criteria. we have supported amendments which seek to democratize and facilitate access to the digital space for citizens and which seek to dismantle monopoly positions within the single market. but we believe that the regulation of the digital space should be based on democratic criteria and social utility rather than the logic of private profit. the digital space must be open to citizens, not just consumers.
in writing. what really needs to be ensured is net neutrality, which should be explicitly enshrined in the regulation. in order to ensure full consumer protection, there should be a legislative package to that end, which unfortunately does not exist, which allows the secret services to spy on citizens at will. i think that this resolution is not demanding enough in this respect, and that is why i have abstained.
in writing. - i have been studying closely the google antitrust case for the past two years with andreas schwab in a constructive way. we proposed last week the ‘rotation mechanism’ as a possible solution. i have listened to the arguments of the 22 official complainants, including the european consumer organisation! so it is not only a microsoft or german publisher problem: google gives a preferential treatment to its own services: this is the central issue, diverting traffic from rival links. now google has 90% of the market share in many eu member states. european enterprises are losing revenues and people are getting fired. european consumers are not having the most pertinent choice, because of google’s preferential treatment to its own services. i am not against google or any other us company! i am against monopolies and i want a level playing field in the european digital market. we want fair and neutral search in the interest of consumers. a final question: will google really move to find an agreement with the european commission only with the threat of a fine or the threat of unbundling?
in writing. what really needs to be ensured is net neutrality, which should be explicitly enshrined in the regulation. in order to ensure full consumer protection, there should be a legislative package to that end, which unfortunately does not exist, which allows the secret services to spy on citizens at will. i think that this resolution is not demanding enough in this respect, and that is why i have abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution, although i think it falls short of the ambition of the eu's objectives and the orientation of its policies towards third countries. hunger kills people, and millions of children suffer and die from malnutrition in the third world countries, but not only there: in spain, for example, more than 20% of children live below the poverty line, and the percentage of spanish citizens who are at risk of falling into poverty and social exclusion rises to 60%. this catastrophic situation is due to the neoliberal orientation of european policies towards third countries, which give priority to the interests of multinational companies, opening the door to the plundering of natural resources, land and agriculture in these countries.
in writing. more than 225 million children under five worldwide suffer from chronic and acute malnutrition or stunted growth as a result of chronic childhood and maternal malnutrition, of whom approximately 2.6 million die each year in developing countries. the commission communication 'improving maternal and child nutrition in external aid: an eu strategic framework' of march 2013 underlined the need to coordinate humanitarian and development aid and identified measures to achieve a 40% reduction by 2025 in children under five years of age with stunting (70 million) and to reduce and maintain below 5% the percentage of children under five years of age with wasting. i voted in favour of this oral question with a resolution calling for a mid-term review of the measures taken and, if necessary, the reallocation of funds already committed (eur 3 100 million for nutrition interventions and eur 400 million for specific programmes) in an effort to achieve the objectives set for 2025.
in writing. - the eu's role in development aid and the fight against child malnutrition must be recognised. however, since 2008, food and financial crises have again increased child malnutrition, which is now the number one cause of death at this stage of life. this prevents the mdgs from being achieved if further action is not taken. the commission's announcement of eur 3.5 billion to counter this situation is positive, but more effort is needed. the measures taken should be reviewed and a multi-sectoral plan should be put in place covering the main areas of action identified by unicef, including: attention to the first 1,000 days of life, which are considered critical, the promotion of small-scale agriculture and the crucial role of women. families in which the woman manages the resources suffer less from malnutrition. this is why we must empower women, promote them as land owners and programme coordinators in the places of action and promote the education of women and girls.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution, although i think it falls short of the ambition of the eu's objectives and the orientation of its policies towards third countries. hunger kills people, and millions of children suffer and die from malnutrition in the third world countries, but not only there: in spain, for example, more than 20% of children live below the poverty line, and the percentage of spanish citizens who are at risk of falling into poverty and social exclusion rises to 60%. this catastrophic situation is due to the neoliberal orientation of european policies towards third countries, which give priority to the interests of multinational companies, opening the door to the plundering of natural resources, land and agriculture in these countries.
in writing. we consider the universal right to food and good nutrition to be fundamental to achieving the millennium development goals. however, around 225 million children under five worldwide suffer from chronic and acute malnutrition or stunted growth as a result of chronic childhood and maternal malnutrition, of whom approximately 2.6 million die each year. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which considers the reduction of funds for agriculture in the 10th european development fund (edf) to be wrong and calls on the eu to increase the assistance provided under its development aid programmes to achieve sustainable agricultural production, based on small, peasant and medium-scale farming, and aimed primarily at local consumption, and to invest in participatory plans targeted at national level and implemented at local level in cooperation with farmers and their representatives, local and regional authorities and civil society organisations.
in writing. currently, 225 million children suffer from malnutrition and, according to the world health organization, 35% of child mortality is due to malnutrition. in view of this serious situation, parliament urges the commission and the member states in this resolution to make the fight against child malnutrition a central part of their development policies. the eu must strengthen its cooperation with the un, ngos and civil society to find new and better ways of financing the fight against child malnutrition. in this respect, it is essential to equip local authorities in developing countries with the tools to improve production and bring it closer to the people in need. this resolution considers three fundamental principles for the successful fight against child malnutrition: availability of productive resources and food; accessibility to food, both physical and economic, and adequacy of food to nutritional needs. the fight against child malnutrition is also a guarantee for the protection of human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on malnutrition and child malnutrition in developing countries, bearing in mind that almost one billion people are still suffering from hunger and that at least 225 million children under five worldwide suffer from chronic and acute malnutrition, with the serious consequences that this entails, and, what is even more terrible, about 2.6 million die each year in developing countries, hunger being the main cause of child death according to the world health organization. in recent years, despite the agreements reached by states at the 1996 world food summit, the number of people suffering from hunger and malnutrition has increased rather than decreased. the world's food production is sufficient to feed the world's population, but a substantial part of humanity, many of whom are children, is hungry and malnourished. we cannot allow that in the 21st century a part of the population is not guaranteed the most basic of rights, that of food.
in writing. - i voted in favour of strong and coherent eu action to tackle child malnutrition in developing countries, which kills almost three million children under the age of five every year. food is a right, and it is the obligation of governments, both in developing and developed countries, to secure and maintain it as a political priority by promoting national infant and maternal nutrition plans, as well as specific policies on food security in general, access to safe drinking water, access to land, etc. children are our future. there is no more important task for any government than to build a world in which every child can grow up to reach their full potential, in health, in peace and with dignity.
in writing. we consider the universal right to food and good nutrition to be fundamental to achieving the millennium development goals. however, around 225 million children under five worldwide suffer from chronic and acute malnutrition or stunted growth as a result of chronic childhood and maternal malnutrition, of whom approximately 2.6 million die each year. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which considers the reduction in funding for agriculture in the 10th european development fund (edf) to be a mistake and calls on the eu to increase the assistance provided under its development aid programmes to achieve sustainable agricultural production, based on small, small and medium-scale farming, and aimed primarily at local consumption, and to invest in participatory plans targeted at national level and implemented at local level in cooperation with farmers and their representatives, local and regional authorities and civil society organisations.
in writing. - more than 165 million children under five worldwide are malnourished or suffering from rickets; some 52 million children suffer from severe malnutrition and an estimated 2.6 million people die annually in developing countries. the right to food and good nutrition is fundamental to the achievement of the millennium development goals, in particular goals 1 and 4. the commission communication 'improving maternal and child nutrition in external aid: an eu strategic framework' highlights the need to coordinate humanitarian and development aid. it recommends a multi-sectoral approach to ensure policy coordination in rural development, sustainable agriculture, public health, water and sanitation, social security and education. the oral question calls for a mid-term review of the measures taken and, if necessary, for the reallocation of funds already committed (eur 3.1 million for nutrition interventions and eur 400 million for specific programmes) in an effort to achieve the objectives set for 2025.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution, although i think it falls short of the ambition of the eu's objectives and the orientation of its policies towards third countries. hunger kills people, and millions of children suffer and die from malnutrition in the third world countries, but not only there: in spain, for example, more than 20% of children live below the poverty line, and the percentage of spanish citizens who are at risk of falling into poverty and social exclusion rises to 60%. this catastrophic situation is due to the neoliberal orientation of european policies towards third countries, which give priority to the interests of multinational companies, opening the door to the plundering of natural resources, land and agriculture in these countries.
in writing. more than 225 million children under five worldwide suffer from chronic and acute malnutrition or stunted growth as a result of chronic childhood and maternal malnutrition, of whom approximately 2.6 million die each year in developing countries. the commission communication 'improving maternal and child nutrition in external aid: an eu strategic framework' of march 2013 underlined the need to coordinate humanitarian and development aid and identified measures to achieve a 40% reduction by 2025 in children under five years of age with stunting (70 million) and to reduce and maintain below 5% the percentage of children under five years of age with wasting. i voted in favour of this oral question with a resolution calling for a mid-term review of the measures taken and, if necessary, the reallocation of funds already committed (eur 3 100 million for nutrition interventions and eur 400 million for specific programmes) in an effort to achieve the objectives set for 2025.
in writing. i believe that the universal right to food and good nutrition is fundamental to achieving the millennium development goals. however, around 225 million children under five worldwide suffer from chronic and acute malnutrition or stunted growth as a result of chronic childhood and maternal malnutrition, of whom approximately 2.6 million die each year. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which considers the reduction of funds for agriculture in the 10th european development fund (edf) to be wrong and calls on the eu to increase the assistance provided under its development aid programmes to achieve sustainable agricultural production, based on small, peasant and medium-scale farming, and aimed primarily at local consumption, and to invest in participatory plans targeted at national level and implemented at local level in cooperation with farmers and their representatives, local and regional authorities and civil society organisations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution, although in my view it falls short in terms of the ambition of the objectives and the orientation of the eu's policies, both internal and external. hunger kills people, and millions of children in the south suffer from malnutrition. i denounce again that debt and neoliberal and austerity policies, among other factors, are causing situations of hunger and malnutrition that were eradicated. the free trade and association agreements impose agricultural and food policies in favour of transnational corporations, giving priority to the interests of multinational corporations and opening the door to the plundering of natural resources, land grabbing, water privatisation, seed control, etc., and imposing industrial agriculture and unsustainable and unaffordable food marketing models. the second international conference on nutrition recently held has shown that there is no progress in this field. i therefore hope that this declaration will be a starting point for the implementation of agricultural and food policies within the framework of food sovereignty of the peoples, outside international trade agreements. if not, we shall continue to count people dying of hunger and malnutrition despite this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution, although i think it falls short of the ambition of the eu's objectives and the orientation of its policies towards third countries. hunger kills people, and millions of children suffer and die from malnutrition in the third world countries, but not only there: in spain, for example, more than 20% of children live below the poverty line, and the percentage of spanish citizens who are at risk of falling into poverty and social exclusion rises to 60%. this catastrophic situation is due to the neoliberal orientation of european policies towards third countries, which give priority to the interests of multinational companies, opening the door to the plundering of natural resources, land and agriculture in these countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as you all know, cites, the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, which came into force in 1975, aims to protect species by controlling international trade. it covers some 35 000 species, which are regulated in three appendices according to the degree of protection they require. since the commission's proposal, there have been two new accessions to cites, which now has 180 parties, including all eu member states. the european union has until now had observer status in cites, since only member states could be parties. however, this situation changed in november 2013 with the entry into force of the gaborone amendment, which allows regional economic integration organizations constituted by states to become parties to the convention. the request for approval sent to parliament by the council bases its draft decision on a single article of the treaty, article 192 on the environment, whereas the commission had based its initial proposal on articles 192 and 207, the latter relating to the common commercial policy. the opinion of the committee on legal affairs of this house considered that the double legal basis proposed by the european commission is appropriate in this case. however, since parliament has to adopt a recommendation concerning only the accession of the european union to cites and has not been called upon to adopt a position on the legal basis, we have confined ourselves, in this context and for the sake of legal clarity, to mentioning the issue of the double legal basis in visas. in our view, the accession of the european union to cites is a logical and necessary step to ensure the full capacity of the european union to pursue its environmental policy objectives. mrs ayuso says it is important to note that the rights and obligations of the member states under the convention will not be affected by this accession. in practice, the internal decision-making process will not be influenced, but will streamline the practices currently in place. in view of all this, mrs ayuso asks me to tell you that she thinks we should vote in favour of the european union's accession to cites.
five thousand animal species and twenty-eight thousand plant species are protected by the convention. nine hundred in imminent danger of extinction. we need mechanisms to prevent their extinction, whether through overexploitation or illegal trade, which is increasingly affecting a growing number of species. every year, 50,000 primates, four million birds, and 350 million tropical fish are trafficked. between 60 and 80% die on the journey. the market is clearly defined: supply comes from tropical countries, demand is concentrated in rich countries, consumers are looking for rare specimens and it is the pharmaceutical industry that buys poisonous spiders and snakes for experiments and new medicines. the european union is the main consumer of these exotic animals. it is the world's leading importer of reptile, parrot, boa constrictor and python skins. it's the second largest importer of primates and cats. we also need, i conclude, effective tools to prevent these exotic species from becoming brooms in the countries of destination.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, we are grateful to hear the strong support of parliament for the upcoming eu accession to cites. with the prospect of parliament giving its consent to the council decision tomorrow the eu should finally be able to become a party to cites next year and be ready for the next meeting of the cites standing committee in january 2016 and the conference of the parties later the same year. thank you for your support. the eu voice will be stronger in an international arena. the input of parliament to future debates on cites matters is important, and we will of course continue working with you on those issues. on the specific question raised here today on the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, we have taken good note of the parliament resolution on wildlife trafficking and the recent letter signed by 81 meps arguing in favour of an eu wildlife action plan. as commissioner vella has already indicated, the eu should be leading the fight against wildlife trafficking both domestically and internationally. he will thus be consulting a number of commissioner colleagues concerned by these issues with a view to considering all appropriate steps for possible follow-up, also taking into account the results of the public consultation which the commission launched on this issue.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, commissioner arias cañete regrets that he is not able to be here today. i hope this long discussion on the calculation methods and reporting requirements pursuant to article 7a of the fuel quality directive can come to an end so that member states can start to transpose these elements of the 2020 climate and energy package. we must now ensure that the member states can put mitigation measures in place to achieve the 6 % greenhouse gas reduction target in fuels by 2020. the council has reached a qualified majority on the commission’s october proposal. however, i understand that some members of this parliament consider the proposal unambitious, claiming that it will not prevent unconventional sources of oil such as tar sands coming onto the eu market. the commission would like to recall that the purpose of article 7a of the fuel quality directive is to reduce the carbon content of fuel used for road transport. the aim of the directive is not to discourage the use of any specific type of fuel but to ensure that appropriate mitigation measures are put in place to achieve the 6 % greenhouse gas reduction target by 2020. the commission is convinced that the fuel quality directive’s greenhouse gas reduction target can be implemented effectively both domestically and abroad through the proposal. the new commission proposal agreed by the council is thus a balanced and workable compromise as it delivers the objectives of the basic act while addressing key stakeholder concerns in an adequate manner. however, the commission will be evaluating the experience with article 7a of the directive as part of its better regulation programme for the period after 2020. all options will be analysed to bring down greenhouse gas emissions from transport fuels in line with the overall target of achieving a reduction of at least 40 % by 2030. all stakeholders, including parliament, will be invited to bring forward their views among others at the conference to be organised in the course of 2015.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, i would like to begin with a question: how could the council's proposal coincide with the negotiations on the free trade agreement with canada? i ask this because your text is exactly what the oil lobby was calling for: the full opening of the canadian tar sands to oil. they know very well that this fuel emits many more greenhouse gases than conventional oil refining - they know this because it is written in the commission's reports, in their reports. it is regrettable that they are not going to penalize these imports, but it is even more serious that they are not even trying to control the increase in consumption of this very harmful oil. as we have been denouncing, the council and commission's free trade agenda, the agreements with canada, with the united states, are conditional on the abolition of the laws protecting european citizens from environmental abuses, and this is a clear example of this. these setbacks exacerbate the inconsistencies in the union's energy efficiency policies. even if these policies are properly implemented, the imperatives of accumulation and profit lead the market to devour efficiency gains: what is saved ends up being squandered in forms of production and consumption that are unsustainable, environmentally and socially. for example, the intention to reduce emissions by using biofuels ends up in land grabbing and serious imbalances in the agricultural ecosystem and human food. we don't need patches; a sustainable alternative is possible.
mr president, welcome to the commission. the truth is, it's your turn to bulldoze another man's bull, and you start out strong. so i hope that later on he can face the dossiers you set up. and if it were not so serious, i would say that it seems that this parliament wants to help mr juncker withdraw legislation which he wants to keep as subsidiary. i am not in this position; i shall say a lot, because the aim of this classification, which has been drawn up by experts over the last two years, is to harmonize it in order to give legal certainty to hauliers who cross europe from north to south and from east to west and who, because of the discretion of the member states, do not know what sanctions they face in each country. there are countries which are considering introducing and imposing prison sentences for those hauliers who choose to sleep in the cab of the truck - and not in a motel far from their truck - in uninsured car parks - as has been said recently - and there are other countries for which driving under the influence of alcohol is not yet a serious offence, with the consequent risk. i therefore find it very serious that the non-adoption of this proposal will maintain this discretion and, therefore, the abuses which some authorities are carrying out against foreign carriers, which are almost always the peripheral ones: those from the east, the west, the south or the north. so we shall continue to be condemned to uncertainty and discrimination and unequal treatment of the hauliers, which is, after all, what always happens. and for those who legitimately and in good faith want to solve social dumping and other cabotage problems with this regulation - which concerns road safety - i would point out that these matters are not dealt with in this regulation or in this classification, but in the social package which you promised us, which we demanded from you and which we are still waiting for.
the italian presidency has also decided that prima should be a priority within its presidency, following the impetus given by the cypriot and greek presidencies. after two years of work, we can consider that this initiative is sufficiently mature to make the leap towards a public-public partnership programme based on article 185 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. and my group would like to stress the importance of strong support for this initiative for a number of reasons. firstly, because it recognises the value of science as a tool for dialogue, exchange and cooperation. secondly, because it allows us to integrate efforts to find together solutions to social challenges such as those that this initiative entails: food systems and water resources, so important for the south. and thirdly, because investing together in research and innovation allows us to improve employment and living conditions in the mediterranean and to promote sustainable and inclusive growth in these regions. commissioner, we must give new value to the euro-mediterranean partnership agenda with our mediterranean neighbours willing to participate and co-finance the activities. but to do that, we want to stress that we need an instrument that gives visibility and institutional stability, as well as long-term confidence. and that instrument can only be article 185 as a vehicle for making financial and technical commitments at this level. but we also consider - and the commission has also considered - that these requirements, the requirements laid down by the commission, are being met by the participating member states. in particular, clear and firm commitments from the participants, a well-prepared agenda and a willingness to establish a well-organised implementation structure. we therefore hope, mr commissioner, that the conclusions we are expecting from the commission will be favourable to the launching and the necessary impetus for this initiative, but especially on the basis of article 185 of the treaty.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the increasing difficulty of obtaining water resources in the mediterranean area is putting the development of agriculture at risk. this is already the case in the island and southern regions. in addition, food security from land and marine resources is threatened by pollution, overexploitation and limited availability of fertile land. demographic and urbanisation trends are also putting pressure on natural resources, while changes in lifestyle and nutritional habits are increasingly leading to eating disorders. prima is pursuing innovative solutions to improve the efficiency and sustainability of food production and water supply, avoiding food-related diseases. this ambitious objective responds to priority challenges for mediterranean countries by promoting good social and individual health, access to food and water and people's well-being, while fostering sustainable socioeconomic growth. prima, which is inseparable from the great mediterranean capital of barcelona, will also be a valuable instrument for establishing long-term structured cooperation in the field of research and innovation in the european union and the mediterranean partner countries. there is already a political dialogue, because the initiative has involved the partner countries from the beginning, and several countries on both sides of the mediterranean have already indicated what they want their financial contribution to be. this programme can play a relevant role in supporting european diplomacy and neighbourhood policy by reflecting the principles of reciprocity, solidarity and co-development, while promoting the stability of european borders. it is urgent that we answer a crucial question: do we believe or not that the mediterranean area is more than a geographical entity? if we believe it goes beyond that, we can't lose this opportunity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the euro-mediterranean partnership aims to create an area of peace, stability and prosperity and to support dialogue between cultures of the region. in this context we support openly the prima initiative which clearly points to the consolidation in a structured way of a partnership for research and innovation according to the principles of co-ownership, mutual interest and benefit sharing, but we insist that this programme should be tied to the specific needs and circumstances of the countries involved, in particular those of non-european union countries. we are therefore waiting for a complete proposal from the commission on how to implement the prima initiative, and we would like in this regard to make three specific recommendations. firstly, prima should relate not only to the countries in the mediterranean area but to the mediterranean itself. i think prima should also address the challenges of the blue economy, ensuring the sustainability of its actions. the objective of prima should be to focus research and innovation towards sustainably exploiting aquatic living resources while at the same time protecting biodiversity, ecosystem services and the resource base. secondly, prima must focus on food production systems that foster sustainable production of safe and healthy food in vibrant local economies. the common research and initiative priorities must be focused towards a low energy, low external input, low emission and low waste economy, and support the creation of vibrant local economies and assure food production supply chains. thirdly and finally, support for an article 185 initiative with a dedicated implementing structure. we believe that the prima initiative has today all the prerequisites to be established as a public-public partnership under article 185 of the treaty. we then propose considering the possibility of establishing a new arm of the union for the mediterranean, which is probably the best way to achieve the partnership we need to launch this project with real possibilities for success.
i would like to thank you in advance, mr president, mr commissioner, for your words and your spirit in connection with the dialogue between the european commission and the european parliament, which i believe is essential and which i share. over the last ten years, a number of cooperation networks have been established, both at state/state and regional level, and significant results have been achieved in building a common euro-mediterranean area of research and innovation. in april 2012, the euro-mediterranean conference on research and innovation, organised by the commission in barcelona, called for a renewed partnership in research and innovation. the cypriot, greek and italian presidencies of the council have also supported this initiative because of the potential for significantly improving scientific cooperation between the european union and the southern mediterranean states. it is almost impossible - and we certainly share this view - to separate r & d & i from higher education, since it is in this area that collaboration between different states can be most rapidly advanced, using, for example, joint studies, joint masters, mobility programmes, student, master, doctoral, joint university centres, among others. prima is based on the principles of co-ownership, common interest and shared benefit, all of which are necessary to ensure the sustainable management of common resources and shared regional responsibility within the framework of the union for the mediterranean. we must provide concrete solutions to the common problems we face. it is good that the european commission has recognised the potential of the mediterranean research and innovation partnership for all the member states and for the citizens of both sides of the mediterranean. for the success of this important partnership, it is important that the commission has article 185 of the treaty on the table, to provide high visibility, institutional stability and long-term commitment from the participating countries. we believe that the article 185 initiative is the most appropriate instrument to address the global challenges of the mediterranean region in an integrated way and therefore it must be implemented or should be implemented as soon as possible. in any case, commissioner, i agree that the objective is more important than the process: the what is more important than the how. but i'm sure you'll share with me that it's also important that the pursuit of the how doesn't jeopardize the what, doesn't jeopardize the objectives. we are open to dialogue, as i said, but we are vigilant.
mr president, the european project bears the scars of all its neglect on the shores of the mediterranean: in the schools and hospitals closed by order of the troika, in the walls erected to isolate europe from its victims, in the regions and states devastated by the neoliberal economy and opportunist geostrategy. if the european union wishes to save itself, it has an obligation to work with the mediterranean states to close these wounds by creating a common agenda for development and external diplomacy. prima is only a small initiative, but it is perhaps a proof of europe's willingness to embody the values of progress and collaboration with its neighbours to the south, the first stone towards the creation of a common scientific area in the mediterranean. it goes without saying that the problem, albeit limited, that this programme will initiate is of great importance: soil conservation, the management of scarce water waste, the development of sustainable agriculture and aquaculture are urgent challenges in this region. environmentally and socially, but also economically. the commission will certainly have to ensure that scientific cooperation is not subordinated to the interests of large companies or contributes to the plundering of local resources, as is the case with export crops in the territories occupied by morocco in western sahara. in view of these precautions, we urge the commission to finance this common research area which we believe is essential for job creation and the much needed reconstruction of the mediterranean area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking a lot about the security of energy supply in europe. however, i think it is an incomplete debate if we do not address it, if we do not talk about energy poverty, one of the greatest and most important inequalities of the 21st century. it is not enough for energy to reach europe if more than 50 million european citizens cannot afford it, even to cover their most basic needs. we are talking about millions of pensioners, households with all their members unemployed or workers with precarious jobs. however, national policies have so far failed to provide an adequate response. even in countries like mine, there are today 200,000 fewer people on the social security benefits. i therefore consider it a social priority to establish a european strategy which provides a common framework for all member states to eradicate this new form of inequality in the 21st century.
mr president, one of the main challenges facing the european continent is precisely the demographic crisis. the depopulation and ageing of many regions of the european union is simply alarming. this demographic crisis affects the continent's own sustainability, its economic vitality and the survival of our social model and our model of territorial cohesion. it is usually accompanied by rising levels of unemployment and poverty, which challenge the very foundations of cohesion. article 174 of the treaty states that the objective of cohesion policy is to reduce disparities between regions, with particular attention to those with severe geographical or demographic handicaps. it is urgent that the commission should act, that it should draw up a strategic plan for population growth with the participation of the member states, with the participation of the regions.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, the commission claims that the first years of experience with the updated framework have been rather successful and that they provide evidence that the reform of the fiscal rules has indeed played a role in achieving progress as regards fiscal consolidation. frankly, we cannot share that view at all. it is of the utmost urgency that the commission shifts the narrow current focus on a mechanical reduction of structural deficits towards a different perspective. today, putting debt levels – both private and public – on a sustainable track by making massive budget cuts to basic welfare systems across europe has dramatic social consequences and is damaging the european recovery. the current policy response has actually increased debt levels instead of reducing them. we see therefore the current framework as a self-defeating framework. not only are the rules not serving its purpose but they are also bringing europe towards its third recession. we are in urgent need of a genuine counter-cyclical approach. we have already shown how the rules cannot even be effectively implemented as they are designed. the discretionary flexibilities have now become the rule instead of the exception, as these ends are being systematically and inefficiently used after the social and economic damage has already been done. it is also massively short-sighted of the commission to claim there is no need to review the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. the current procedure puts most of the burden on the deficit countries. we need to provide a more systematic approach. the greens, therefore, are disappointed that the commission considers the current economic governance framework a success and feels that there is currently no need for a revision. we believe that in order to achieve a genuine counter-cyclical approach, we need a legislative proposal that could codify, in a revised six-pack, a qualified treatment for investments generating large societal and environmental benefits. we also believe that there should be a particular treatment of the debt incurred for recapitalising the banking sector. commissioner, the average debt in the euro area is 90% of gdp. however, around one-third of that debt finds its origin in support measures provided by member states to the banking sector since 2008. this debt is unfair and unsustainable, and its treatment should be urgently revised. we also see a need for codifying in the legislation some key concepts, such as the conserved structural balance, which at the moment is totally discretionary. there are no clear rules about it. in spain, for instance, the potential output – as estimated by the commission – implies an unemployment rate of around 20%. we do not think such a rate reflects the potential of the economy. we would therefore advocate a more complete definition of the concept reflecting a wider theoretical background. we are also in favour of completing the scoreboard for macroeconomic imbalances by adding social indicators. in his hearing, commissioner moscovici committed himself to including those social indicators, so i would really like to see that implemented. on the application of the rules, i have to say that in recent days the commission asked spain, for instance, to further reduce its deficit by making additional cuts of eur 4 billion. the country suffers from massive unemployment. half of the unemployed do not receive any kind of support. can the eu continue ignoring that reality when revising national budgets using its current rules? this is socially blind and economically suicidal. that is why, dear commissioner, we, the greens, believe that the legal revision is urgently needed in order to exit the current stagnation.
madam president, i think that it is too early to judge whether the two-pack and the six-pack need revision. i would remind you that it is only two years since we were negotiating the final details of the two-pack. in my view a clear target for revision is how we count public debt. should we also include debt from public enterprises? i think we should, and this will be one of the main ideas in our future debates. talking about the revision of economic governance in europe, we have also to consider regional and local governments with fiscal and legislative powers. the deficit targets for those administrations have to be proportional to their share of government spending. only in this way will we ensure that there is no discrimination between different levels of government. this is especially important in countries where most social spending is done at regional level but tax-collection powers are still monopolised by the central government. i also have the feeling that maybe europe should look more at the united states of america – at how the federal usa was built and how they created a monetary and fiscal union. i ask myself whether the no-bailout clause should be analysed in our future framework for economic governance.
madam president, when the crisis began, the commission was quick to blame it on the member states' lack of rigorous compliance with the stability rules. he forgot that germany was among those states which failed to comply with the rules on budgetary stability and that spain was among those states which complied, with low deficits and low public debt - yes, with an already precarious labour market - and which today, because of the implementation of its policies, has an unemployment rate of 25% and the second highest external debt in the world. these are the consequences of his rule. the assessment can therefore only be negative. the european workers do not want more reforms, less social protection, more evictions, more poverty. we do not want this governance, which is also causing fascism to resurge in europe. the commission's role must be to achieve the productive and social convergence of the peoples of europe and not to be an accomplice of the markets and the emptying of democracy.
madam president, dear vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to evaluate the two-pack and the six-pack. i think the positive results are obvious. if we look at the situation in the euro area countries, there has been significant progress in the fiscal consolidation processes and there has been progress in the reform processes. most countries have undertaken or are beginning to undertake major reform processes. moreover, it has been shown that those countries which are most ambitious in their fiscal consolidation processes and those countries which are most ambitious in their reform programmes are today the countries which are growing the most and are today the countries which are creating the most jobs. but that's not enough, your honours. we have to keep moving. we must be more forceful with those countries that do not comply, because the non-compliance of those countries affects the rest of the countries in the eurozone. but, as the vice-president has said, we must also make the whole process more transparent, we must give it greater democratic legitimacy. because at a time when it is necessary to move forward with the much-awaited and necessary economic union - ultimately, political union - it is at a time when european citizens, and in particular the citizens of the euro area, feel further away from europe. and i have no doubt that the lack of democratic legitimacy of this process has something to do with it. it is therefore time to move towards greater democratic legitimacy for both the two-pack and the six-pack.
madam president, there's a black rapper named tupac - i don't know if you know him - and he said something that comes to mind: "to pull the trigger to kill a black man is to be a hero: one less hungry mouth for welfare. first, send them drugs, let them distribute them among brothers, give them guns and let them kill each other. it seems that, like the blacks in the united states, it is not difficult to condemn the countries of the south and the workers of europe. the fiscal pact, the stability and growth pact, is like the leech that the old doctor used as the wrong remedy for the inevitability of circumstances and, moreover, has become the universal method that is dragging europe into the disaster of austerity, not to mention the threat of economic punishment to those who think of doing something different: again sucking people's blood. this european union, which has adopted rules which, having been agreed by a few and behind the backs of almost everyone, now appear to be written in stone, is nothing but a pretext for legalizing something which is no longer legitimate or effective in dealing with the crisis and its causes. so, in conclusion, i invite you to look in the mirror, in case your reflection has disappeared from it.
mr president, the fiscal crisis of spring 2010 made the union's economic problems apparent, and the need for better economic governance. from there came the six-pack and the two-pack, which we are discussing today and which are intended to control the fiscal policy of countries. however, it was not until the financial crisis in the first half of 2012 that europe assumed that its economic problems were even more serious and that it needed essentially to have a common economic policy, a project from which the banking union emerged. but this journey has only just begun. we need a strong fiscal union and i therefore want to denounce the fact that the fiscal rules we are discussing today are based on a purely national approach to budgetary policy. we cannot analyse the fiscal policy of each country by studying only the effect of its budgets on that member state. we need europe to internalize the effects of fiscal policy across the union, not just in individual countries. we must therefore review these fiscal rules and the whole of the coordination of the economic policy of the union to take account of this overall approach to national economic policies. and we also need to reform the stability and growth pact, not just to make the system more flexible but, essentially, to incorporate that european analysis, to incorporate that global approach to the effects of the budgetary policies of individual countries on the union as a whole. mr dombrovskis, we cannot say that the current system is working. the results don't support it. we need more flexibility and a european project for tax policy.
mr president, commissioner, i want to raise this matter from the political point of view of the credibility of europe and the european project, which is what many of us have been elected to do. the six-pack and the two-pack have to earn that credibility. it is true that this is not the time to reform something so recent, but it is the time to see some of its flaws, such as, for example, the discrimination in its application by country - which undermines european credibility in this respect - and also the lack of supervision, because it is a mistake to think that in spain, for example, there have been structural reforms: there have been patches and sacrifices. nor will there be any credibility, commissioner, if we do not also speak imperatively of more europe in terms of the energy union, the single market - which in spain does not even have a single market - the capital market, etc. and finally, solidarity will not be believed if we do not raise the issue of eurobonds while at the same time talking about control.
in writing. in the light of what the commission and the council have said in the course of the debate on the review of the economic governance package, i would like to say the following: (1) i disagree with the commission's assessment of the effectiveness of the so-called six-pack and two-pack rules, insofar as the reduction of government deficits has been achieved at the expense of growth and employment. since the onset of the crisis in 2007-2008, the gdp growth differential between the european union and the euro area, and the united states, has been on average higher than one percentage point per year. this regulatory package has also not served to ensure financial stability, which has been achieved thanks to economic integration (banking union) and the monetary policy of the ecb. 2) the commission should therefore propose a revision of these rules, so that they no longer focus on the obsessive pursuit of punitive tax adjustments and serve to boost economic growth and social welfare. the european council should also consider whether the stability and growth pact itself should be reformed.
in writing. in the light of what the commission and the council have said in the course of the debate on the review of the economic governance package, i would like to say the following: (1) i disagree with the commission's assessment of the effectiveness of the so-called six-pack and two-pack rules, insofar as the reduction of government deficits has been achieved at the expense of growth and employment. since the onset of the crisis in 2007-2008, the gdp growth differential between the european union and the euro area, and the united states, has been on average higher than one percentage point per year. this regulatory package has also not served to ensure financial stability, which has been achieved thanks to economic integration (banking union) and the monetary policy of the ecb. 2) the commission should therefore propose a revision of these rules, so that they no longer focus on the obsessive pursuit of punitive tax adjustments and serve to boost economic growth and social welfare. the european council should also consider whether the stability and growth pact itself should be reformed.
in writing. in the light of what the commission and the council have said in the course of the debate on the review of the economic governance package, i would like to say the following: (1) i disagree with the commission's assessment of the effectiveness of the so-called six-pack and two-pack rules, insofar as the reduction of government deficits has been achieved at the expense of growth and employment. since the onset of the crisis in 2007-2008, the gdp growth differential between the european union and the euro area, and the united states, has been on average higher than one percentage point per year. this regulatory package has also not served to ensure financial stability, which has been achieved thanks to economic integration (banking union) and the monetary policy of the ecb. 2) the commission should therefore propose a revision of these rules, so that they no longer focus on the obsessive pursuit of punitive tax adjustments and serve to boost economic growth and social welfare. the european council should also consider whether the stability and growth pact itself should be reformed.
in writing. the declaration on governance that you have presented to us is a fraud that hides the violence of measures that cause suffering to the people, that destroy jobs in all sectors agriculture, fisheries, industry, that generate more and more hunger, misery and poverty. in my country, galicia, last friday there were three simultaneous demonstrations in different parts of our country for actions related to the destruction of wage employment in alcoa and lantero and the non-payment of wages in cleanet. i have heard again today in this debate that we cannot spend more than we have, that we must adjust the budgets. but you know what? my people, galicia, are not poor: you have impoverished us with your policies. with their policies they have appropriated our wealth and our resources, destroyed our productive sectors, our industries, and handed over our markets to the multinationals. we should take stock of our debt, see who owes whom. economic governance will continue to fail and, unless the economy is put at the service of the people, job destruction, misery, hunger, poverty and social exclusion will continue to increase.
in writing. ‒ as socialists, we consider the ombudsman's office to be one of the most important tools for bringing the eu closer to citizens. through this office, citizens can make their complaints and requests known. it also ensures transparency and good practice within the european institutions. we believe that mrs o'reilly has shown her ability to carry out this task in the last period, and we have confidence in her good work and her capacity for dialogue.
in writing. ‒ it is very easy to vote for a candidate who is already backed by an extraordinary record. in just one year as head of the european ombudsman's office, emily o'reilly has succeeded in putting into practice practical action based on the exemplary, transparent and accountable nature of the european institutions. the ombudsman's powers are vested in the european parliament. together with the committee on petitions, which is its point of reference and to which it is answerable, it is the embodiment of direct participation by citizens in the european institutions. i would like to highlight his conscientious work in denouncing bad administrative practices, as well as the so-called 'revolving doors', his call for greater transparency in all the institutions, especially in the case of the ttip negotiations, and his strong, unanimous and solid message in the set of actions he has been developing so far at the head of the ombudsman's office.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the continuation of emily oreilly as ombudsman, elected to the post on 3 july 2013 following the retirement of her predecessor, nikiforos diamandouros. o'reilly is the only candidate for the 2014-2019 term, having become the first female ombudsman in 2013. i think it is necessary for him to continue to lead an institution which, if necessary, is more necessary than ever, given the economic circumstances in europe. since 1995, the european ombudsman has investigated complaints about the management of all the eu institutions. in 2013, it received 2 420 complaints, with an action affecting 23 245 european citizens. from her position, the ombudsman can make a unique contribution to overcoming the crisis of citizens' trust in the european institutions by highlighting citizens' concerns and helping to bridge the gap between them and the community institutions.
in writing. ‒ the ombudsman has been a part of the european institutions since 1995. the ombudsman is elected for a term of five years, coinciding with the parliamentary term, and is governed by article 228 tfeu. the previous ombudsman, p. nikiforos diamandouros, resigned without completing his term of office, being replaced by emily o'reilly, ombudsman of ireland since 2013 and former journalist. although mrs o'reilly is the only candidate, we can say that in the short period of time she has been in charge of the office in question, she has done a good job, highlighting the initiatives she has undertaken on her own initiative, such as the study on 'revolving doors' or the launch of the website to bring the institution closer to the citizens. in this line he announces that he will follow closely the problems of the citizens. the hearing of mrs o'reilly took place on 2 december in the committee on petitions.
in writing. ‒ as first vice-president of the european parliament's committee on petitions, the body directly responsible for relations with the european ombudsman, i am pleased that emily o'reilly has been re-elected. i have had the opportunity to meet her and to find many points of common interest, particularly with regard to the rights of disabled people. the role of the european ombudsman's office is to investigate complaints of maladministration in the institutions and bodies of the european union. complaints can be lodged by citizens of the european union, by residents of eu countries, and by companies and associations based in europe. i hope that in this new legislature we have just begun we will work together closely and fruitfully in the interests of the european citizen.
in writing. ‒ as socialists, we consider the ombudsman's office to be one of the most important tools for bringing the eu closer to citizens. through this office, citizens can make their complaints and requests known. it also ensures transparency and good practice within the european institutions. we must strive to make it more widely used by the public and to make its usefulness felt. we believe that mrs o'reilly has shown her ability to do this job very well in the last period, and we trust her good work and her ability to dialogue.
in writing. ‒ as socialists, we consider the ombudsman's office to be one of the most important tools for bringing the eu closer to citizens. through this office, citizens can make their complaints and requests known. it also ensures transparency and good practice within the european institutions. we believe that mrs o'reilly has shown her ability to do this job very well in the last period, and we trust her good work and her ability to dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the ombudsman has been a part of the european institutions since 1995. the previous ombudsman, p. nikiforos diamandouros, resigned without completing his term of office and was replaced by emily o'reilly, irish ombudsman since 2003 and former journalist. to be elected, it needs to be signed by at least 40 members from at least two member states. mrs. o'reilly is the only candidate. i see no reason to oppose his continuance and i wish him every success in his new mandate.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of emily o'reilly's continuing as ombudsman. having become the first ombudsman in 2013, i believe it is necessary that she continues to lead an institution that is more necessary than ever given the economic circumstances europe is going through. from her position, the ombudsman can make a unique contribution to overcoming the crisis of citizens' trust in the european institutions by highlighting citizens' concerns and helping to bridge the gap between them and the community institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing ms o'reilly as european ombudsman for the 2014-2019 term, because i believe she should have the opportunity to continue her work, having been first elected last july 2013. i also value very highly her previous experience as ombudsman for ireland. it is very important to have qualified people like emily o'reilly to deal directly with citizens' requests in a europe which must aspire to become progressively closer to its citizens.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of the only candidate emily o'reilly is due to her defence of european citizenship, which is perfectly exemplified by her denunciations of the castor case or subsidies outside the eu for purposes contrary to the interests of local societies in third countries.
in writing. ‒ this report on the proposal for a directive repealing council directive 93/5/eec on the assistance of the commission by the member states and their cooperation in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs is part of the commission's current programme for the adaptation and effectiveness of legislation (refit), in which the commission is committed to repealing obsolete and redundant legislation. the aim of the directive was to promote scientific support by member states and to organise cooperation with the national bodies competent in scientific matters relating to food safety, in order to ensure the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food, which was replaced in 2002 by the european food safety authority (efsa). as provided for in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, efsa becomes the competent body for the promotion of scientific cooperation, which makes directive 93/5/eec obsolete. since it is a purely technical report, i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) launched in 2012 to ensure a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework for businesses, workers and citizens, the commission has committed to repealing rules that have become redundant or obsolete. directive 93/5/eec was intended to ensure the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food by promoting scientific support from the member states and organising cooperation with the relevant national bodies on scientific questions relating to food safety. however, the scientific tasks entrusted to the scientific committee for food have been taken over by the european food safety authority (efsa), which has also become the competent body for promoting scientific cooperation with the member states and relevant national bodies operating in the areas covered by the authority's remit. directive 93/5/eec has become obsolete and i have therefore voted in favour of its repeal in the interests of simplifying, improving and making european legislation more effective.
in writing. ‒ a simple vote to apply the simplified procedure without amendments to a directive setting out how member states will contribute to the scientific examination of foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ this report on the proposal for a directive repealing council directive 93/5/eec on the assistance of the commission by the member states and their cooperation in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs is part of the commission's current programme for the adaptation and effectiveness of legislation (refit), in which the commission is committed to repealing obsolete and redundant legislation. the aim of the directive was to promote scientific support by member states and to organise cooperation with the national bodies competent in scientific matters relating to food safety, in order to ensure the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food, which was replaced in 2002 by the european food safety authority (efsa). as provided for in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, efsa becomes the competent body for the promotion of scientific cooperation, which makes directive 93/5/eec obsolete. since it is a purely technical report, i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in this debate parliament is taking a position on the commission's proposed implementation of the directive on the contribution of the member states to the scientific examination of foodstuffs, which i see no reason to oppose.
in writing. ‒ this report on the proposal for a directive repealing council directive 93/5/eec on the assistance of the commission by the member states and their cooperation in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs is part of the commission's current programme for the adaptation and effectiveness of legislation (refit), in which the commission is committed to repealing obsolete and redundant legislation. the aim of the directive was to promote scientific support by member states and to organise cooperation with the national bodies competent in scientific matters relating to food safety, in order to ensure the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food, which was replaced in 2002 by the european food safety authority (efsa). as provided for in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, efsa becomes the competent body for the promotion of scientific cooperation, which makes directive 93/5/eec obsolete. since it is a purely technical report, i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) launched in 2012 to ensure a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework for businesses, workers and citizens, the commission has committed to repealing rules that have become redundant or obsolete. the purpose of directive 93/5/eec was to ensure the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food by promoting scientific support from the member states and by organising cooperation with the relevant national bodies on scientific questions relating to food safety. however, the scientific tasks entrusted to the scientific committee for food have been taken over by the european food safety authority (efsa), which has also become the competent body for promoting scientific cooperation with the member states and relevant national bodies operating in the areas covered by the authority's remit. directive 93/5/eec has become obsolete and i have therefore voted in favour of its repeal in the interests of simplifying, improving and making european legislation more effective.
in writing. this report on the proposal for a directive repealing council directive 93/5/eec on the assistance of the commission by the member states and their cooperation in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs is part of the commission's current programme for the adaptation and effectiveness of legislation (refit), in which the commission is committed to repealing obsolete and superfluous legislation. the aim of the directive was to promote scientific support by member states and to organise cooperation with the national bodies competent in scientific matters relating to food safety, in order to ensure the effective functioning of the scientific committee for food, which was replaced in 2002 by the european food safety authority (efsa). as provided for in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, efsa becomes the competent body for the promotion of scientific cooperation, which makes directive 93/5/eec obsolete. since it is a purely technical report, i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of the revision of directive 93/5/eec, which has become totally obsolete, as unanimously agreed by the coordinators of the committee on the environment.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an international agreement whose objective is to ensure that international trade in endangered species does not threaten their survival, especially those with high commercial interest. the success of cites depends on the effective implementation of the agreed recommendations. the eu maintains an observer status with cites. the aim of this report is to approve the eu's accession to cites in order to allow it to participate fully in its work and to bind the eu and the member states to the implementation and enforcement of the convention itself. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the purpose of the proposal for a council decision is to approve the accession of the european union to cites and to ask the president of the council to designate the person empowered to deposit, on behalf of the union, the instrument of accession provided for in article xxi (1) of the convention and the declaration of competence provided for in article xxi (3) thereof. the accession of the european union to cites will allow it to be adequately represented at the meetings of the convention and to play a full role in its work, in accordance with the treaties and established practices on external representation. it will enable the commission, on behalf of the european union, to lead the negotiations and act as a catalyst for compromise solutions balanced between the positions of the 28 member states. by becoming a party to cites, the european union will assume formal obligations and be held accountable to the other parties with regard to its implementation of the convention.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is a major international instrument whose objective is to protect endangered species of fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. it has been in force since 1975 and currently has 178 parties, including all eu member states. it covers some 35 000 protected species and ensures that international trade in wild animal and plant specimens does not endanger their survival. all imports, exports, re-exports and introductions of species covered by the convention should be authorised through a licensing system. however, until the entry into force of the decision taken at the botswana conference (2013) to allow supranational bodies to accede to the convention, the eu had not been able to become a party and had only observer status to the convention. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's recommendation to approve the eu's accession to cites, which will allow the eu to participate and negotiate with one voice at the summits, strengthening our negotiating role and capacity.
in writing. ‒ single vote on the recommendation for the council decision on eu accession to cites. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is a highly relevant international instrument whose objective is to protect endangered species of fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of those species. it entered into force in 1975 and now has 178 parties (including all eu member states). it covers some 35 000 species, listed in three appendices according to the degree of protection they need, and ensures that international trade in wild animal and plant specimens does not endanger their survival. all imports, exports, re-exports and introductions from species covered by the convention should be authorised through a licensing system. however, until the entry into force of a decision taken at the botswana conference (2013) to allow supranational bodies to accede to the convention, the eu had not been able to become a party and it was the sum of the member states that determined the european position.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an international agreement whose objective is to ensure that international trade in endangered species does not threaten their survival, especially those with high commercial interest. the success of cites depends on the effective implementation of the agreed recommendations. the eu maintains an observer status with cites. the aim of this report is to approve the eu's accession to cites in order to allow it to participate fully in its work and to bind the eu and the member states to the implementation and enforcement of the convention itself. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ until 29 november 2013, the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora only admitted states as parties. after that date, international organisations may also be signatories. it is therefore logical that the european union, which is at the forefront of the protection of wild fauna and flora, should now accede to a convention which has the laudable aim of improving international cooperation in the control of international trade in endangered species. let us respect biodiversity and prevent the high level of exploitation of certain plants and animals from putting them at risk of extinction and destroying their natural habitats.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is a major international instrument whose objective is to protect endangered species of fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. it entered into force in 1975 and now has 178 parties (including all eu member states). however, until the entry into force of a decision taken at the botswana conference (2013) to allow supranational bodies to accede to the convention, the eu had not been able to become a party and it was the sum of the member states that determined the european position. the recommendation gives the go-ahead for the eu to become a party to cites, which i support.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an international agreement whose objective is to ensure that international trade in endangered species does not threaten their survival, especially those with high commercial interest. the success of cites depends on the effective implementation of the agreed recommendations. the eu maintains an observer status with cites. the aim of this report is to approve the eu's accession to cites in order to allow it to participate fully in its work and to bind the eu and the member states to the implementation and enforcement of the convention itself.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is an international body whose objective is the protection of endangered species by controlling their trade. all the countries of the european union are parties to this convention, while the european union has maintained an observer status. in view of the recent reform which allows for accession to the convention on international organisations, i consider it appropriate that the european union should accede. accession by the european union will mean more coherent and transparent action and will make it possible to take more comprehensive and effective action to achieve its environmental policy objectives, and that is why i am voting in favour of this accession.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is a major international instrument whose objective is to protect endangered species of fauna and flora by controlling international trade in specimens of these species. it has been in force since 1975 and currently has 178 parties, including all eu member states. it covers some 35 000 protected species and ensures that international trade in wild animal and plant specimens does not endanger their survival. all imports, exports, re-exports and introductions of species covered by the convention should be authorised through a licensing system. however, until the entry into force of the decision taken at the botswana conference (2013) to allow supranational bodies to accede to the convention, the eu had not been able to become a party and had only observer status to the convention. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's recommendation to approve the eu's accession to cites, which will allow the eu to participate and negotiate with one voice at the summits, strengthening our negotiating role and capacity.
in writing. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an international agreement whose objective is to ensure that international trade in endangered species does not threaten their survival, especially those with high commercial interest. the success of cites depends on the effective implementation of the agreed recommendations. the eu maintains an observer status with cites. the aim of this report is to approve the eu's accession to cites in order to allow it to participate fully in its work and to bind the eu and the member states to the implementation and enforcement of the convention itself. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as parliamentarians we are committed to serving society in its global complexity. nonetheless, we must work to ensure that the future generation has the same opportunities as the generation i belong to. hence, i have voted in favour of the decision on the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). i expect that by giving approval for the accession of the eu to cites we will create a better framework to protect our worldwide common heritage.
in writing. ‒ the eu certainly has a dependency on the us gps system that should be ended. but it is also true that there is no guarantee that the gnss system will be used exclusively for civilian purposes, and it seems that it will also be used for military purposes, as has been pointed out by a number of peace-keeping organisations. in this particular case, a cooperation agreement is proposed with morocco, the country responsible for the illegal occupation of the territory of western sahara, in contravention of the many united nations resolutions concerning the right of self-determination of the saharawi people. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as this initiative will enable both sides to improve and intensify their cooperation in scientific and technological areas of common interest and will make possible a greater exchange of specific knowledge and the transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific communities, industry and citizens. in addition, all activities under the agreement will be monitored regularly by the commission services, including an eu review. the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocal access to programmes and activities of the other party related to the object of the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property, equitable distribution of ipr and effective exploitation of results. the renewal of the agreement will lead to an increase in scientific knowledge, which translates into market access opportunities.
in writing. ‒ this agreement marks the culmination of the contacts established between the european union and morocco for the participation of this country in the galileo programme. the negotiations were launched in march 2004 and concluded in december 2006, when the cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) of a civil nature between the european community and its member states and the kingdom of morocco was initialled. this agreement will enable cooperation in the field of satellite navigation and timing. the agreement covers scientific research, industrial manufacturing, training, applications, service and market development, trade, radio spectrum, integrity issues, standardisation and certification. in this way, joint activities in these sectors can be strengthened for the benefit of the citizens, industries and scientific communities of both sides, which is why i have given my support.
in writing. ‒ the eu certainly has a dependency on the us gps system that should be ended. but it is also true that there is no guarantee that the gnss system will be used exclusively for civilian purposes, and it seems that it will also be used for military purposes, as has been pointed out by a number of peace-keeping organisations. in this particular case, a cooperation agreement is proposed with morocco, the country responsible for the illegal occupation of the territory of western sahara, in contravention of the many united nations resolutions concerning the right of self-determination of the saharawi people. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ morocco wishes to develop its knowledge of space applications in the use of satellite radio navigation on its territory and in the surrounding region (western mediterranean and west africa). moroccan and european companies have been maintaining industrial cooperation relations in the space sector for several years. the european commission negotiated the agreement with the moroccan authorities, which was signed on 12 december 2006, in accordance with a council decision of 27 november 2006. these are agreements which i accept.
in writing. ‒ the eu certainly has a dependency on the us gps system that should be ended. but it is also true that there is no guarantee that the gnss system will be used exclusively for civilian purposes, and it seems that it will also be used for military purposes, as has been pointed out by a number of peace-keeping organisations. in this particular case, a cooperation agreement is proposed with morocco, the country responsible for the illegal occupation of the territory of western sahara, in contravention of the many united nations resolutions concerning the right of self-determination of the saharawi people. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this agreement marks the culmination of the contacts established between the european union and morocco for the participation of this country in the galileo programme. the negotiations were launched in march 2004 and concluded in december 2006, when the cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) of a civil nature between the european community and its member states and the kingdom of morocco was initialled. this agreement will enable cooperation in the field of satellite navigation and timing. the areas covered by the agreement are scientific research, industrial manufacturing, training, applications, service and market development, trade, radio spectrum, integrity issues, standardisation and certification. in this way, joint activities in these sectors can be strengthened for the benefit of the citizens, industries and scientific communities of both sides, which is why i have given my support.
in writing. the eu certainly has a dependency on the us gps system which should be ended. but it is also true that there is no guarantee that the gnss system will be used exclusively for civilian purposes, and it seems that it will also be used for military purposes, as has been pointed out by a number of peace-keeping organisations. in this particular case, a cooperation agreement is proposed with morocco, the country responsible for the illegal occupation of the territory of western sahara, in contravention of the many united nations resolutions concerning the right of self-determination of the saharawi people. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i cannot accept as legitimate the current government of ukraine, which emerged from a coup d'état. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the renewal of the agreement between the european union and ukraine will enable both parties to continue to develop their cooperation in the field of scientific and technological relations over the next five years. the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocal access to programmes and activities of the other party related to the object of the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property, equitable distribution of industrial property rights and effective exploitation of results. for all that, he has my support.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i cannot accept as legitimate the current government of ukraine, which emerged from a coup d'état. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukraine has shown this year that it is willing to move closer to the european union, with which it has close cooperation links that need to be renewed. this is the case of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, which expired on 7 november 2014. this agreement will enhance and intensify cooperation in scientific and technological areas of common interest and will enable a greater exchange of specific and technical knowledge for the benefit of the scientific communities, industry and citizens. voting in favour is to support all ukrainian citizens who look to the european union with hope, showing that the path of cooperation is the one that will lead us to a common welfare.
in writing. ‒ this is the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine, which dates back to 2002 and was last renewed in 2011. it is now being renewed for a further five-year period, which is of interest to maintain the continuity of scientific and technological relations between ukraine and the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i cannot accept as legitimate the current government of ukraine, which emerged from a coup d'état.
in writing. ‒ renewal of the agreement with the aim of intensifying the exchange of scientific knowledge for the benefit of the scientific communities and citizens. it will be beneficial for the progress of both sides through cooperation. the activities carried out under this agreement will be monitored through performance indicators and data collection. in view of the mutual benefit to be derived from this agreement, i vote in favour of its extension.
in writing. the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine was signed in copenhagen on 4 july 2002 the further renewal of this agreement will contribute to maintaining the continuity of relations between ukraine and the european union in the field of science and technology over the next five years, which is necessary, in particular in view of the current complicated situation in which ukraine is facing the the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's role in the world of science and technology is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i believe that the renewal of this agreement will allow for a better sharing and exploitation of knowledge in this area, which will ultimately lead to the creation of opportunities for the future of the eu. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the proposal. the proposal.
in writing. ‒ with the renewal of this agreement, the european union and ukraine will be able to continue to develop their cooperation in the field of scientific and technological relations for the next five years. the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocal access to programmes and activities of the other party related to the object of the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property, equitable distribution of industrial property rights and effective exploitation of results. so you have my support.
in writing. i voted against this report because i cannot accept as legitimate the current government of ukraine, which emerged from a coup d'état. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report is purely technical in nature, as croatia's participation in the european economic area is a consequence of its accession to the eu. but even so, i could not vote in favour, because i believe that it is up to the croatian people to decide whether or not they want to join the eu and therefore whether or not they want to enter the neoliberal economic logic of the union. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this report because, with the accession of croatia to the eu and in order to allow its participation in the european economic area, there are council decisions under examination which aim to conclude certain texts. the eea agreement brings together the eu member states and three members of the european free trade association (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation on the four freedoms (free movement of goods, services, persons and capital) in all eea countries. the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known collectively as 'horizontal and complementary' policies. the agreement guarantees equal rights and obligations within the internal market for eea citizens and economic operators.
in writing. ‒ the european economic area (eea), in force since 1994, brings together the eu member states and three members of the european free trade association (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation on the four freedoms (free movement of goods, services, persons and capital) in all eea countries. the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known collectively as 'horizontal and complementary' policies. the agreement also guarantees equal rights and obligations within the internal market for eea citizens and economic operators. the participation of croatia in the eea is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu and therefore the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of croatia in the eea and the additional protocols thereto should be approved. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the eea, in force since 1994, brings together the eu member states and three members of the european free trade association (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation on the four freedoms (free movement of goods, services, persons and capital) in all eea countries. the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known collectively as 'horizontal and complementary' policies. the agreement guarantees equal rights and obligations within the internal market for eea citizens and economic operators. the participation of croatia in the eea is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu and therefore the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of croatia in the eea and the additional protocols thereto should be approved. the inta committee was almost unanimous in its decision to grant approval.
in writing. ‒ this report is purely technical in nature, as croatia's participation in the european economic area is a consequence of its accession to the eu. but even so, i could not vote in favour, because i believe that it is up to the croatian people to decide whether or not they want to join the eu and therefore whether or not they want to enter the neoliberal economic logic of the union. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour as this is a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the eu. as a consequence of that accession in july 2013, croatia undertook to accede, under the conditions laid down in its act of accession, to the agreement on the european economic area (eea) signed by the eu in 1992. the eea agreement brings together the eu member states and three members of the european free trade association (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation on the four freedoms - the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital - in all eea states. it covers cooperation in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture. the agreement guarantees, in principle, equal rights and obligations in the internal market for citizens and economic operators in the eea.
in writing. we voted in favour as this is a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the eu. as a consequence of that accession in july 2013, croatia undertook to accede, under the conditions laid down in its act of accession, to the agreement on the european economic area (eea) signed by the eu in 1992. the eea agreement brings together the eu member states and three members of the european free trade association (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation on the four freedoms - the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital - in all eea states. it covers cooperation in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture. the agreement guarantees, in principle, equal rights and obligations in the internal market for citizens and economic operators in the eea.
in writing. we voted in favour as this is a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the eu. as a consequence of that accession in july 2013, croatia undertook to accede, under the conditions laid down in its act of accession, to the agreement on the european economic area (eea) signed by the eu in 1992. the eea agreement brings together the eu member states and three members of the european free trade association (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation on the four freedoms - the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital - in all eea states. it covers cooperation in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture. the agreement guarantees, in principle, equal rights and obligations in the internal market for citizens and economic operators in the eea.
in writing. ‒ the european economic area (eea) brings together the eu member states and three members of the european free trade association (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation on the four freedoms (free movement of goods, services, persons and capital) in all eea countries. the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known collectively as 'horizontal and complementary' policies. the agreement guarantees equal rights and obligations within the internal market for eea citizens and economic operators. the participation of croatia in the eea is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu and therefore the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of croatia in the eea and the additional protocols thereto should be approved.
in writing. ‒ this report is purely technical in nature, as croatia's participation in the european economic area is a consequence of its accession to the eu. but even so, i could not vote in favour, because i believe that it is up to the croatian people to decide whether or not they want to join the eu and therefore whether or not they want to enter the neoliberal economic logic of the union. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the european economic area agreement provides for a single market between the eu, iceland, liechtenstein and norway with the aim of strengthening economic and trade relations and exchanges with these countries, including the implementation of the free movement of goods, persons, capital and services and cooperation in different policies. the european union has also adopted a number of measures to promote the development of the croatian economy, including the establishment of a european economic area. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of approving croatia's accession to the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ the european economic area (eea), in force since 1994, brings together the eu member states and three members of the european free trade association (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation on the four freedoms (free movement of goods, services, persons and capital) in all eea countries. the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known collectively as 'horizontal and complementary' policies. the agreement also guarantees equal rights and obligations within the internal market for eea citizens and economic operators. the participation of croatia in the eea is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu and therefore the conclusion of the agreement on the participation of croatia in the eea and the additional protocols thereto should be approved. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. we voted in favour as this is a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the eu. as a consequence of that accession in july 2013, croatia undertook to accede, under the conditions laid down in its act of accession, to the agreement on the european economic area (eea) signed by the eu in 1992. the eea agreement brings together the eu member states and three members of the european free trade association (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation on the four freedoms - the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital - in all eea states. it covers cooperation in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture. the agreement guarantees, in principle, equal rights and obligations in the internal market for citizens and economic operators in the eea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as this is a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the eu. as a consequence of that accession in july 2013, croatia undertook to accede, under the conditions laid down in its act of accession, to the agreement on the european economic area (eea) signed by the eu in 1992. the eea agreement brings together the eu member states and three members of the european free trade association (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation on the four freedoms - the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital - in all eea states. it covers cooperation in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture. the agreement guarantees, in principle, equal rights and obligations in the internal market for citizens and economic operators in the eea.
in writing. this report is purely technical in nature, as croatia's participation in the european economic area is a consequence of its accession to the eu. but even so, i could not vote in favour, because i believe that it is up to the croatian people to decide whether or not they want to join the eu and therefore whether or not they want to enter the neoliberal economic logic of the union. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of this technical dossier is based on the view that croatia's accession to the european economic area is a step in the right direction with its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the commission is establishing a new legal framework for the 'insular arbitration' for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, determining the products to which tax exemptions and reductions may be applied. while the products in the new list are essentially similar to those included in the annex to council decision 2004/162/ec, it should be noted that several new products have been introduced and others have been deleted. this report will serve to further stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions, without undermining the coherence of the internal market and the eu legal order.
in writing. ‒ until 1 july 2014, france was authorised to provide for exemptions or reductions from the 'insular arbitration' tax for certain products manufactured in the french outermost regions (except saint-martin), in order to compensate for the disadvantages they suffer and to support their competitiveness and social and economic development. the proposal now being tabled aims to establish a new legal framework for the 'insular arbitration' for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, determining the products to which the tax exemptions and reductions may be applied. while the products in the new list are essentially similar to those included in the annex to council decision 2004/162/ec, several new products have been introduced and others have been removed. it seems a justified measure. the aim is to continue to stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions, without undermining the coherence of the internal market and the eu legal order, and i have therefore voted in favour, in accordance with the procedure proposed by the regi commission presidency, of adopting it without amendments, in accordance with article 50 of the regulation.
in writing. - it seems a justified measure. the aim of the regulation is to continue to stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions without undermining the coherence of the internal market and the eu legal order, and the regi commission presidency therefore proposed that it be adopted without amendments, in accordance with article 50 of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ france was authorised to provide, until 1 july 2014, for exemptions or reductions from the 'arbitrio insular' tax for certain products manufactured in the french outermost regions (except saint-martin), and requested to be allowed to extend this measure until 2020. this measure seems reasonable, given that its objective is to continue stimulating economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions, which have additional objective difficulties compared to the rest of the continent in this respect, without undermining the coherence of the internal market and the eu legal order.
in writing. ‒ france has requested that a differentiated taxation regime for the 'insular discretion' be maintained for the period 2015-2020 for the french outermost regions. the products covered by this proposal are similar, with some inclusions and exclusions, to the products covered by decision 2004/162/ec. the commission includes in the proposal the extension of the application of that decision until 1 july 2015 in order to give france time to incorporate the new provisions into its legal order. given the conditions of these regions - remoteness, insularity, small area, difficult terrain and climate, and dependence on a small number of products which adversely affect their economic development - i think it is appropriate to approve these measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision allowing france to apply exemptions or reductions to the ‘dock dues’ tax in the french outermost regions in order to tackle the structural handicaps affecting them. i am convinced these regions will benefit from this decision as it will make it possible to enhance economic and social development, competitiveness and growth. outermost regions need our full support in order to further explore their potential, as development is key to eu cohesion. these dues are essential to maintain local production, preserve employment in regions where unemployment is the highest in the eu, and prevent stiff competition from low-cost products from third countries.
in writing. ‒ until 1 july 2014, france was authorised to provide for exemptions or reductions from the 'insular arbitration' tax for certain products manufactured in the french outermost regions (except saint-martin), in order to compensate for the disadvantages they suffer and to support their competitiveness and social and economic development. the proposal now being tabled aims to establish a new legal framework for the 'insular arbitration' for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, determining the products to which the tax exemptions and reductions may be applied. while the products in the new list are essentially similar to those included in the annex to council decision 2004/162/ec, several new products have been introduced and others have been removed. it seems a justified measure. the aim is to continue to stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions, without undermining the coherence of the internal market and the eu legal order, and i have therefore voted in favour of adopting it without amendments in accordance with the procedure proposed by the regi commission presidency, in accordance with article 50 of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i agree that this measure is justifiable and intends to continue to stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions of france, especially in the context of economic crisis. the measures taken are not undermining the coherence of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the special nature of the outermost regions in portugal, spain and, as in this case, france, justifies specific measures to promote local production and consumption. at the same time, i believe that an impact assessment of measures such as tax relief is essential to ensure that the objective of boosting local economies is achieved and that certain business sectors are not fraudulently benefited.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 608 workers from whirlpool europe s.r.l. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in italy, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the egf support for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of the redundant workers of whirlpool europe s.r.l. in recent years, whirlpool has made investments in the spini di gardolo plant. however, this investment has not been profitable due to the contraction in demand for large household appliances and the subsequent reduction in production. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the sampled exporting producers. this plan provided for the closure of the norrkoeping (sweden) and spini di gardolo (italy) plants. this fund must continue to function.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 1 890 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 608 workers who have lost their jobs at whirlpool europe s.r.l., a company manufacturing household appliances, and at five suppliers and processors of products of that company in italy, as a result of the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. while this aid alone cannot alleviate the unemployment problem in the manufacturing of household appliances due to the sharp drop in production in the eu-28 for six consecutive years (2008-2013) as a result of the economic and financial crisis, it does constitute good assistance and training for the reintegration of the affected workers into employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 608 workers from whirlpool europe s.r.l. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in italy, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the podemos delegation in the european parliament has voted in favour of mobilising this fund, understanding that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated aid package. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. ‒ the sharp decline in the production of electrical equipment in the period 2008-2012 is related to the global economic and financial crisis. in addition to the 502 redundancies in whirpool in italy, considered as the main undertaking, 106 workers made redundant in five suppliers and processors of the products in the reference period are also included in the number of potential beneficiaries, which brings the total number of persons entitled to benefit from egf measures to 608. the personalised services to be provided consist of a comprehensive list of actions: information sessions, admission and enrolment, counselling and guidance, skills assessment, general training and retraining, vocational training, mentoring, support after reintegration into employment and support towards entrepreneurship, job search allowances, participation allowances and contribution to travel costs and recruitment incentives.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. ‒this report refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 890 000 from the egf for italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by whirlpool europe s.r.l., which operated in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 27 (manufacture of electrical equipment and materials) and by five suppliers and product converters, as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. it affects a total of 608 beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 608 workers from whirlpool europe s.r.l. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in italy, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this fund has been set up by the eu to provide additional support to workers who have suffered the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis. italy submitted a request for the mobilisation of this fund to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by whirlpool europe s.r.l. and five other suppliers and product processors as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the proposal adopted by the commission consists of a total of eur 1 890 000 for job placement aid for a total of 608 workers. the commission has concluded that this proposal fulfils the conditions for receiving funding from the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 1 890 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 608 workers who have lost their jobs at whirlpool europe s.r.l., a company manufacturing household appliances, and at five suppliers and processors of products of that company in italy, as a result of the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. while this aid alone cannot alleviate the unemployment problem in the manufacturing of household appliances due to the sharp drop in production in the eu-28 for six consecutive years (2008-2013) as a result of the economic and financial crisis, it does constitute good assistance and training for the reintegration of the affected workers into employment.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 608 workers from whirlpool europe s.r.l. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in italy, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in this context of economic crisis the eu must be ready to give a second chance to workers that have lost their jobs, in this case of whirlpool europe srl company, in italy. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis, to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. that is why i give my support to this report.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of this report is in support of a fund which is essential for mitigating the impact of globalisation on the functioning of local economies and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the redundancies of 1079 workers, 829 from fiat auto poland and 250 from 21 suppliers and product processors; 777 persons are expected to be involved in the egf measures related to the decrease in production at the production plant of fiat auto poland s.a. in tychy, located in the province of slaskie, poland, during the reference period from 21 january 2013 to 21 may 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in poland, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on 10 november 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of poland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at the tychy production plant of fiat auto poland s.a. located in the slaskie region of poland, following major structural changes in world trade patterns as a result of globalisation. i have supported this decision, which is the 19th application under examination in the 2014 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 259 610 from the egf for poland. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of employees in the fiat group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 1 259 610 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 777 workers who have lost their jobs at fiat auto poland s.a., in poland, in the automobile manufacturing sector, as a result of structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. while this aid alone cannot alleviate the growing unemployment in the automotive industry, which has been exacerbated by the impact of globalisation, which has worsened the effects of the financial crisis, reducing sales of new passenger cars in the eu to the lowest level since data has been collected, it does provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the redundancies of 1 079 workers, 829 from fiat auto poland and 250 from 21 suppliers and product processors; 777 persons are expected to be involved in the egf measures, related to the decrease in production at the production plant of fiat auto poland s.a. in tychy, located in the province of slaskie, poland, during the reference period from 21 january 2013 to 21 may 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in poland, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the podemos delegation in the european parliament has voted in favour of mobilising this fund, understanding that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated aid package. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. ‒ poland submitted an application egf/2013/006 pl/fiat for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 1 079 workers, 829 from fiat auto poland and 250 from 21 suppliers and product processors. 777 persons are expected to participate in egf measures. the european automotive industry has lost market share since 2007, when european passenger car production accounted for 32,2% of world production, which fell to 23,2% in 2012. it is important to note that, among other measures, the intervention specifically targets the group of workers aged over 50, which represents a high percentage of beneficiaries; this is important as this age group is more exposed to long-term unemployment and the risk of exclusion from the labour market.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. ‒ proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of poland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at the production plant of fiat auto poland s.a. in tychy, located in the slaskie region of poland. it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 259 610 and concerns 829 redundancies at the fiat production plant in tychy and 250 redundancies at 21 suppliers and product converters during the reference period from 21 january to 21 may 2013, and i am in favour of its approval.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the redundancies of 1 079 workers, 829 from fiat auto poland and 250 from 21 suppliers and product processors; 777 persons are expected to be involved in the egf measures, related to the decrease in production at the production plant of fiat auto poland s.a. in tychy, located in the province of slaskie, poland, during the reference period from 21 january 2013 to 21 may 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in poland, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on 10 november 2014, the commission approved a proposal to mobilise the egf for poland. the reason for the request was the dismissal of workers from the production plant of fiat auto poland s.a. in tychy. the automotive sector in europe has been severely affected by structural changes due to globalisation, which have brought about a drastic fall in demand and production in europe over the past few years. the proposal adopted by the commission consists of a total of eur 1 259 610 for the co-financing of measures to assist the reintegration of 777 workers made redundant. i am in favour of the mobilisation of the egf, as the measures will help the workers who have been made redundant to gain access to the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 1 259 610 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 777 workers who have lost their jobs at fiat auto poland s.a., in poland, in the automobile manufacturing sector, as a result of structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the impact of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. while this aid alone cannot alleviate the growing unemployment in the automotive industry, which has been exacerbated by the impact of globalisation, which has worsened the effects of the financial crisis, reducing sales of new passenger cars in the eu to the lowest level since data has been collected, it does provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the redundancies of 1 079 workers, 829 from fiat auto poland and 250 from 21 suppliers and product processors; 777 persons are expected to be involved in the egf measures related to the decrease in production at the production plant of fiat auto poland s.a. in tychy, located in the province of slaskie, poland, during the reference period from 21 january 2013 to 21 may 2013. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in poland, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be ready to give a second chance to workers that have lost their job because of the economic crisis, in this case of pl/fiat auto poland s.a. company, from poland. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis, to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. that is why i give my support to this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe it is appropriate to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to ensure the future continuity of regions affected by deindustrialisation processes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 551 workers from odyssefs fokas s.a., an undertaking operating in the economic sector classified in division 47 of nace rev. 2 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in greece, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on 11 november 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by odyssefs fokas s.a. i have supported this decision as the greek authorities argue that the greek economy is in a deep depression for the sixth consecutive year (2008-2013). according to elstat, the greek statistical authority, since 2008 greek gdp has decreased by 25,7%, public consumption by 21%, and private consumption by 32,3%, while unemployment has increased by 20,6%. greek household consumption has decreased since the beginning of the economic and financial crisis and the figures have been getting worse every year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 6 444 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 600 workers who have lost their jobs at odyssefs fokás s.a., a company engaged in wholesale retail trade in greece, as a result of the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the fall in the purchasing power of greek households following the decline in the country's economy since the start of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. in addition, the greek authorities will provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to 500 young people under 30 who are not in employment, education or training, as the redundancies affect a region eligible under the youth employment initiative. while this aid alone cannot alleviate the problems facing millions of greek households, it does provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 551 workers from odyssefs fokas s.a., an undertaking operating in the economic sector classified in division 47 of nace rev. 2 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in greece, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the podemos delegation in the european parliament has voted in favour of mobilising this fund, understanding that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated aid package. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. ‒ due to the fall in the purchasing power of greek households following the decline of the greek economy since the beginning of the economic and financial crisis, the demand for non-commodity products plummeted and the turnover of odyssefs fokas, a company engaged in the sale of clothing, started to decline accordingly. in this case, the total amount of eur 6 444 000 has been mobilised from the egf for greece. it affects a total of 600 beneficiaries and 500 ninis. it is positive that the bulk of the funds requested will be used to help start ups (eur 3 000 000) and training measures (eur 2 960 000).
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. ‒ a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by odyssefs fokas sa, which operated in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). it refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 444 000 from the egf for greece. it affects a total of 600 beneficiaries and 500 young people who are unemployed and not currently in any form of formal training or education. i agree with your concession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 551 workers from odyssefs fokas s.a., an undertaking operating in the economic sector classified in division 47 of nace rev. 2 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in greece, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on 11 november 2014, the commission approved a request from greece to mobilise the egf in favour of 600 workers made redundant by odyssefs fokas s.a. and 500 ninis. a total of eur 6 444 000 was mobilised to finance measures to help people get into work. this was due to the global economic crisis, which has had a particular impact on greece. the reduction in the purchasing power of consumers has led to a sharp fall in the demand for odyssefs fokas s.a. this, coupled with the harsh credit conditions, made a no-fault escape impossible. in view of this situation, i consider it appropriate to approve the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 6 444 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 600 workers who have lost their jobs at odyssefs fokás s.a., a company engaged in wholesale retail trade in greece, as a result of the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the fall in the purchasing power of greek households following the decline in the country's economy since the start of the economic and financial crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. in addition, the greek authorities will provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to 500 young people under 30 who are not in employment, education or training, as the redundancies affect a region eligible under the youth employment initiative. while this aid alone cannot alleviate the problems facing millions of greek households, it does provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it allows the mobilisation of resources following the dismissal of 551 workers from odyssefs fokas s.a., an undertaking operating in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 47 (retail trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles). this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in greece, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalization and economic crisis and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. that is why i give my support to this report in order to help people fired from odyssefs fokas s.a. in greece company. they deserve a second chance in life.
in writing. ‒ this european fund is essential to ensure the continuity of industry in the peripheral countries and the employability of workers in this sector. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the 5 213 redundancies with 3 886 people expected to benefit from the measures which occurred during the reference period from 1 july to 31 october 2013 due to a decline in the union's market share in the air transport sector. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in france, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on 11 november 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns brought about by globalisation. i voted in favour of this decision, which is the 20th application examined under the 2014 budget and relates to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 25 937 813 from the egf for france. this request concerns 3 886 redundancies during the reference period from 1 july to 31 october 2013 and during the subsequent period, but related to the same collective redundancy procedure. the application is based on the intervention criterion of article 2 (a) of the egf regulation, which requires at least 500 redundancies to be made in an undertaking in a member state over a period of four months.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 25 937 813 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 5 213 workers who have lost their jobs at air france as a result of the structural changes in world trade brought about by globalisation. the union market share in air transport is declining, especially in the light of the dramatic increase of the three main airlines in the persian gulf region, a trend which has been aggravated by the global financial and economic crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. while this aid alone cannot alleviate the plight of thousands of workers in european airlines, it does provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the 5 213 redundancies, with 3 886 people expected to benefit from the measures, which occurred during the reference period from 1 july to 31 october 2013 due to a decline in the union's market share in the air transport sector. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in france, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the podemos delegation in the european parliament has voted in favour of mobilising this fund, understanding that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated aid package. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. ‒ the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade and to help them re-enter the labour market. the european union's financial assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and made available to them as quickly and efficiently as possible. france submitted the application for a financial contribution from the egf following the 5 213 redundancies, with 3 886 persons expected to benefit from the measures. the redundancies at air france are due to the major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the decline of the union market share in the air transport sector. however, in accordance with article 6 of the egf regulation, it is necessary to ensure that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into stable employment, since egf support can only co-finance active labour market measures resulting in long-term sustainable employment.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 25 937 813 from the egf for france. this request concerns 3 886 redundancies during the reference period from 1 july to 31 october 2013 and during the subsequent period, but related to the same collective redundancy procedure. and i agree with your approval.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the 5 213 redundancies with 3 886 people expected to benefit from the measures which occurred during the reference period from 1 july to 31 october 2013 due to a decline in the union's market share in the air transport sector. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in france, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the application by france to mobilise the egf in favour of the 3 886 redundant employees of air france was approved by the commission on 11 november 2014. the decline in market share in the european union, coupled with declining demand and rising oil prices, has economically disrupted the airline industry. measures to reintegrate workers into employment total eur 25 937 813 and include, inter alia, vocational counselling and guidance, training and contributions to the creation of businesses. i think it is necessary to vote in favour of the mobilisation of this fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 25 937 813 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 5 213 workers who have lost their jobs at air france as a result of the structural changes in world trade brought about by globalisation. the union market share in air transport is declining, especially in the light of the dramatic increase of the three main airlines in the persian gulf region, a trend which has been aggravated by the global financial and economic crisis. the personalised services to be financed by the egf comprise training, career guidance, retraining and business start-up incentives. while this aid alone cannot alleviate the plight of thousands of workers in european airlines, it does provide good assistance and training for the reintegration of the workers concerned.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. the podemos delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of mobilising this fund, believing that there is an objective need and a legitimate expectation on the part of the dismissed workers to receive the associated series of grants. however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate. the processes of industrial conversion and labour flexibility make it more difficult to absorb a growing mass of workers and devalue workers' social rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it allows for the mobilisation of resources following the 5 213 redundancies with 3 886 people expected to benefit from the measures which occurred during the reference period 1 july to 31 october 2013 due to a decline in the union market share in the air transport sector. this mobilization of funds is due to the disastrous consequences of the internationalisation of the productive sectors in the eu. these funds are not able to solve the problems of these workers in the context of unemployment in france, but at least they give the possibility of alleviating a small part of the human drama. it is for all these reasons that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of the members of the single resolution board because among the proposed members is antojo carrascosa, who was director general of the frob in the spanish state appointed by the minister of the popular party, mr de guindos, and who mediated in the bankia crisis. there is no way i'm endorsing mr. carrascosa's appointment after seeing the disastrous handling of the bankia case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the list of six candidates proposed by the european commission to head the new european resolution mechanism, the body responsible for rescuing banks that go bankrupt or need money to get out of the way. the council will now have to ratify the appointments by qualified majority, so that the members of the board can take up their duties on 1 january 2015. given the importance of the single resolution board in the process of building banking union and as an authority which must ensure the orderly liquidation of banks in difficulty, i cannot but express my reservations about the appointment of the spaniard antonio carrascosa to this board for his previous management in connection with the bankia crisis.
in writing. ‒ following the hearings held in the econ committee, the committee voted on monday 15 december to adopt a report drawn up by the italian socialist roberto gualtieri, in favour of the appointment of several members of the single resolution board, the body of the single resolution mechanism. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the board of directors is composed of: a) elke könig, as chairman of the board b) timo löyttyniemi, as vice-chairman of the board c) mauro grande, as a member of the board d) antonio carrascosa, as a member of the board e) joanne kellermann, as a member of the board f) dominique laboureix, as a member of the board.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of the appointment of the members of the european banking supervisory body because of the presence of mr carrascosa. this gentleman, in my opinion, has focused his career in the world of bank bailouts in spain on strategies that have not taken into account at all the recovery by citizens (taxpayers) of the huge sums provided for the bank clean-up, so he may not be the right person to protect european taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of the members of the single resolution board, as among the proposed members is antonio carrascosa, who was director general of frob in the spanish state, appointed by the popular party minister, mr de guindos, and who mediated the bankia crisis. there is no way i'm endorsing mr. carrascosa's appointment after seeing the disastrous handling of the bankia case.
in writing. ‒ following hearings in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the committee recently voted in favour of a report on the appointment of the following citizens to various posts on the single resolution board, the body of the single resolution mechanism: (a) elke könig as chair of the juntab; (b) timo löyttyniemi as vice-chair of the juntab; (c) mauro grande as a member of the juntab; (d) antonio carrascosa as a member of the juntab; (e) joanne kellermann as a member of the juntab; (f) dominique laboureix as a member of the juntab. my group and i agree with these appointments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of the members of the single resolution board, as among the proposed members is antonio carrascosa, who was director general of frob in the spanish state, appointed by the popular party minister, mr de guindos, and who mediated the bankia crisis. there is no way i'm endorsing mr. carrascosa's appointment after seeing the disastrous handling of the bankia case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the list of six candidates proposed by the european commission to head the new single resolution mechanism, the body responsible for rescuing banks that go bankrupt or need money to get out of the way. the european council will now have to ratify the appointments by qualified majority, so that they can take office on 1 january 2015. given the importance of the single resolution board in the process of building banking union and as an authority which must ensure the orderly liquidation of banks in difficulty, i cannot but express my reservations about the inclusion of the spaniard antonio carrascosa on this board for his previous management in relation to the bankia crisis.
in writing. i voted against the appointment of the members of the single resolution board because among the proposed ones is antonio carrascosa, who was director general of frob in the spanish state, appointed by the minister of the popular party, mr de guindos, and who mediated in the bankia crisis. there is no way i'm endorsing mr. carrascosa's appointment after seeing the disastrous handling of the bankia case.
in writing. ‒ i support the appointment of the new members to the srb as, generally, i consider that they are very capable to act with the european interest at heart and will enforce the new bail-in rules in a way that favours european citizens in a context where just bailing out banks with taxpayers’ money is no longer acceptable.
president of the commission. mr president, after the events in pakistan this morning, which you have justly condemned, it is difficult to speak calmly about the european commission's work programme. i have no difficulty in congratulating you on behalf of the commission on the award of the aachen charlemagne prize. i'm a double of the charles prize. the luxembourg people have received the charlemagne prize as a people once before in 1986, and i am still one of them, and i had the honour of receiving it myself in 2006. the line of the charles prize winners is made even more impressive by your appointment, mr president. (applause) as regards the programme of work of the new commission, let me say, mr president, that i had the impression, during the election campaign - during which you were my rival but nevertheless a friend, like guy verhofstadt and others - that european citizens wanted to see a new start in europe. i have the impression that i have visited some 20 countries and 33 european cities. i am thus falling in love with europe, because there are few moments when, in such a short space of time, one can discover so many sensibilities, see so many colours, meet so many men and women. we agreed, during the process of setting up the new commission, that it should concentrate on the essentials, on the grand subjects, defined by the guidelines which i had the honour to develop before you on 15 july and at the end of october. we agreed - i think - that every problem in europe is not necessarily a problem for the european union or for the commission. we were indeed very many to think that the principle of subsidiarity should be restored and that the task of solving this problem should be entrusted to the levels of power - namely the member states, the regions or the local authorities - which are best placed to provide a response to the problems facing europe. on the basis of these principles, and in accordance with the commission's guidelines, we have examined 452 legislative initiatives which are currently under consideration and are being debated. we have done so keeping in mind the major priorities which must be those of the european union. the great priority, which is beyond doubt, is based on the elements of growth and employment. that is why, some three weeks after its installation, the commission has proposed an ambitious investment plan which will occupy not only the minds, but also our meetings over the next six months, and i am grateful to the european parliament for associating closely, with courage and with a concern for the work well done, to the examination of these texts. mr president, we have tried to limit the number of new initiatives we are going to undertake and launch. there was a time when the commission announced 130 new initiatives per annum. we are announcing for our part twenty-three new initiatives for the year 2015; we are presenting the work programme for the year 2015 and not the work programme for the duration of the legislature. we limit the number of new initiatives by applying the often contested principle of discontinuity: we are going to withdraw, amend or modify 83 texts on the table of the legislator. on compte parmi les nouvelles initiatives, outre le programme d'investissement which has all its importance all those which have to do with taxation. i repeat in this connection that the commission will present within the first six months a directive on the automatic exchange of advance rulings, namely the tax rulings comme on dit en mauvais français. the commission will also present an action programme to combat tax evasion and fraud, in principle by making the country where the profit is made the place of taxation. (applause from the centre) this is done and i would like to say very amicably that i am sensitive to the fact that, day after day, people invite me to do what i said. i said it and it will be done in 2015. frans timmermans i congratulate him for the ardour with which he coordinated the work of the commission relating to its work programme i met each of the commissioners separately. the programme was prepared with the council of ministers and the european parliament. i should like to say to you, mr president, that i will leave it to the first vice-president to explain the commission's programme of work and its priorities. (applause from the centre)
first vice-president of the commission– mr president, let me briefly add my congratulations to those of president juncker. the charlemagne prize is something that is very close to you and me because we are from the region. aachen is the pivotal city in the region we are from, and the origins of the charlemagne prize are so intimately linked with the idea of healing the wounds after the second world war that to be honoured with the charlemagne prize is one of the highest distinctions any european can receive. i want to congratulate you on that. through you, mr president, i want to thank this house for the elaborate cooperation in preparing the commission work programme for 2015. as president juncker has just said, we want it to be focused on priorities for 2015, and we want it to be about 2015 – not about 2016 or 2017, etc. of course, the commission will also have priorities in the years after 2015, but these will be in the work programmes for the years to come. this commission wants to deliver change in terms of the way we work, but we can only do that in close cooperation with your parliament and with council. therefore, when today we present the commission work programme it is also an invitation to the european parliament to use it as a platform for discussion between our two institutions, and then also to bring the third institution in legislation into the fold when they also have to play their role, namely the council. as president juncker said, we have 23 new measures on our list. we are breaking with the practice of listing everything for fear of being incomplete, and we are only putting forward the things we will actually do in 2015. no more, no less. this does not mean that preparatory work will not start for future initiatives to implement the political guidelines to be presented in 2016 and 2017, like the multiannual financial framework mid-term review. of course it will, and parliament will be kept closely informed. our first priority, as the president has already said, is to deliver on the investment plan for europe. we showed we can act quickly by presenting our strategy within the first month of the mandate. now we need to implement and deliver to unlock public and private investments in the real economy of at least eur 315 billion over the next three years. we will table an ambitious digital single market package to create the conditions for a vibrant digital economy and society. this will be done by complementing the telecommunications regulatory environment, modernising copyright rules, simplifying rules for consumers making online and digital purchases, enhancing cyber-security, and mainstreaming digitalisation. we will take steps towards a european energy union. it has never been so vital to ensure energy supply security, integrate national energy markets, reduce energy demand in europe, and promote green technology. deepening economic and monetary union is important for the stability of the eurozone, and, together with our plans to create a capital union, will attract investors to europe. in parallel, we will invest in reinvigorating the social dialogue at all levels. we want to promote fairness and opportunity in our societies. we will look at new ways to support member states in getting people, especially the younger and long-term unemployed, into the workplace and making sure they have the skills they need to stay there. we will present a package of measures to promote labour mobility while supporting member states’ efforts to ensure that benefits are not abused. a fairer approach to taxation is something citizens rightly feel very strongly about. our aim should be that companies’ profits are taxed in the place they are made, including in the digital economy. we will bring forward an action plan to that end alongside proposals on transparency of tax rulings and relaunching work on the common consolidated corporate tax base. we will develop a holistic and balanced european agenda on migration. citizens expect us to improve the management of migration into europe while keeping it an attractive destination for talent. we will strengthen our better regulation agenda and follow up our commitment for democratic change. we have already started with important improvements in the transparency of our meetings with interested representatives, and i am looking forward to a debate with parliament on how we move this agenda forward. we have looked at what we are planning with a critical eye. will this initiative contribute to jobs and growth? will it add value beyond what member states are able to do? will it be effective in changing things on the ground without adding unnecessary burdens? all the initiatives we are taking are well within the ten priorities president juncker agreed with your parliament upon his election. we have also asked the same question: ‘is it is necessary and useful?’ of the 400 or so pending proposals that are already on the table, applying the principle of political discontinuity that is set out in the framework agreement between our two institutions. it is very often set out as a principle but, in practical terms, it is very often difficult to actually apply it, as i have discovered in the last couple of weeks. at the start of the new legislative cycle, it is time to clear the decks so that time and energy can be invested in those proposals that will have the biggest impact on jobs and growth and which have a good prospect of being adopted in the near future. so we have looked through every pending proposal across all sectors and decided whether we want to maintain, amend or withdraw them. we want results on the ground so, where it is clear existing proposals would be not be agreed in a way that meets our objectives, we will propose alternative, more effective, approaches. that is the case with the energy tax directive, which we propose to withdraw because the council has watered it down so that it no longer meets our environmental objectives of taxing fuel in a way that reflects real energy content and co2 emissions. we are also proposing to withdraw the existing proposal on the circular economy to make way for a broader and more ambitious approach that can be more effective… (interjection from the floor: ‘shame!’) let me finish and then you can still cry ‘shame’, but perhaps it will not be necessary. what we want to do is actually to make sure that the circular economy is indeed approached in a circular way, and not just half the circle. this means that we will withdraw the present waste proposal and come back with a more ambitious proposal that will cover the whole of the circular economy, and we will do this in 2015. we will not drag our feet with this. we will do this very quickly, because we want the circular economy to be in pole position when the juncker plan is being put into effect so that the economy that can profit from investment is indeed smack in the middle of the circular economy. this is what we want to do. so, if we withdraw the waste package, it is because we want to put something on the table that is more ambitious and that really can make a huge contribution to a part of the european economy that really needs a boost, which is the circular economy. we can also do this in line with the juncker plan. i am deeply convinced of this. no ‘shame!’? good. as i said, we will present this new, more ambitious proposal to promote the economy next year. in parallel, we will promote investment in this sector through the new european fund for strategic investment as well as european structural and investment funds. in the political guidelines, we said we would assess the air package and our conclusions are clear. there are good prospects that the medium—sized combustion plants proposal will be adopted soon, closing the unacceptable loophole in our source legislation. the proposal on national emission ceilings has proved more controversial, and there is a gap emerging between what parliament and council might view as an acceptable outcome. we will bring forward, in the course of the ongoing negotiations, a modified proposal which we hope can help bridge this gap by better reflecting synergies with the energy and climate package, and by reducing the administrative burden. we are optimistic that negotiations will be a success and that agreement can be reached. i stress that we are not compromising on the goals we want to attain, but we are looking critically at the methods we can use to bring parties together so that we have a conclusion that can actually be implemented soon, so that we can achieve cleaner air in the eu. we have discussed the maternity leave directive a lot. let me be clear. the commission deplores the persisting barriers to women’s access to and progression in the workplace just as much as you do. over the past years, perhaps partly because of our proposal, many member states have improved their maternity leave arrangements. however, there are a range of other issues that also need to be addressed to enable more women to participate in the labour market. we are ready to work with you and the council to make one last effort to unblock the directive. but if there is no breakthrough in six months, we will take it off the table and come instead with a new initiative tackling those issues in the round. so yes, we will remain ambitious – yes we want this directive to succeed – but if it still continues to go nowhere, we will take new initiatives to break through the glass ceiling to create better positions for women in the labour market. we believe that it would be more useful for everyone to invest their time and effort in such a discussion than in an ongoing institutional stalemate. the onus is now on the three institutions in the next six months to create momentum around this proposal. if you really mean business, we can do it; if not, we will have to come up with something else. this is all part of our better regulation ethos. our work programme also has a strong implementation simplification dimension. it again includes a set of regulatory refit initiatives through which the commission assesses the existing stock of legislation on a rolling basis to ensure that laws remain fit for purpose and deliver on their objectives in the most efficient and effective way. so what comes next? we will now discuss the withdrawal proposals with you, and we will only enact them after hearing your views. it is clear to me that we can only get things really done if there is an agreement between three institutions. on the priority initiatives, we look forward to following up with the parliament and the council. we would like to work with you to identify a list of files on which the institutions can make a common commitment to progress swiftly to bring the benefit to the citizens as soon as possible. we look forward to a good and deep structural dialogue with your committees in the course of next spring and summer. on the basis of this experience, i hope we can move to a deeper understanding of interinstitutional programming in the future. the commission’s work programme is not the end of the affair or the dialogue. it is the beginning of a dialogue, and i am very much looking forward to this dialogue and coming back to your parliament early next year if you allow me, mr president, to continue that. today is the start; we need your support. europe needs us to deliver concrete measures for citizens who are looking for growth and jobs.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, on behalf of myself and my group, i also congratulate you on winning the charlemagne prize, which honours your long and fruitful political career in the service of the union. mr president, mr vice-president, this time is different. we ran for office with this slogan last may. but how was it different? quote: 'this parliament is different from its predecessors. it is the first to actually elect, in every sense of the word, the president of the commission. and he chooses it with a new spirit. those aren't my words. these are your words, mr juncker, from your speech in july. words i fully share. the way we elected him changed his relationship with parliament politically. we increased their legitimacy and in return demanded a different relationship of trust from the previous one: more dialogue, more joint action, more accountability. i want to work with parliament in a transparent way, in a spirit of loyalty, mutual trust and cooperation, with equal consideration and respect for the union's co-legislators. i propose to update the methods of cooperation and work between the commission and parliament through constructive dialogue. those aren't my words. these are your words, mr timmermans, and i share them fully. i am very sorry to have to convey to you, on behalf of our group, our disappointment and a certain anger. what we have experienced in the last few days and hours in relation to the commission's work programme does not correspond to those words which i share. it's too much like the past to accept that this time is different. obviousness at work, stories in the media, confusion, lack of information relevant to parliament. the confidence between parliament and the commission has been damaged. the distance has increased. but we will have to think about that and i welcome the words you have just spoken today, pointing out that not only do we have to do things differently, but we have to do things differently. we shall try to do so in the next resolution and that must be the programme of work. my group has priorities. they know them perfectly. reducing unemployment, especially among young people. we demand, as i have said, a profound, visible, rapid and effective change in taxation. i am pleased to say that on this particular point, no doubt partly because of our pressure, the commission has made a significant proposal. we want more and are ready to work together with the commission to move forward on taxation in 2015. the social model has to be defended. we also want measures to combat the growing social and territorial inequalities, to fight poverty in the union in solidarity. on these issues, positive subsidiarity is needed, but also a strong european union, which knows how to respond to these challenges. i would like to take a few moments to point out that my group has some reservations on the issues which you propose to withdraw and that we fully agree that the objectives must be maintained, even if the procedure has to be changed: on maternity leave or on the circular economy. in any case, we are ready to work with the commission. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. mr guerrero, i ask you, after listening to your speech, whether it still seems to you that it was right for your group to vote for this commission.
the answer is 'blue card'. mr iglesias, i have to point out that in the european union there are two types of coalitions: the positive coalition, which tries to respond to the needs of citizens and solve their problems, and the negative coalition, which tries to confront without offering solutions. my "possible" coalition is with those who want to solve the problems; yours is at the ends of the house, in those who protest because they have no solutions for the citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, you talk about restoring confidence, you ask us to believe in your commission as if it were a matter of faith, you say that this time it is different. i have listened carefully to what you have said and have read the communication, and the truth is that i am looking for and cannot find reasons to convey to the citizens a message of confidence in you. it is easy to fall in love with europe and its people, but falling in love with this european union has nothing to do with that. the principle of subsidiarity must be strengthened, and that is right, but i am afraid that in some fundamental areas - for example, the environment - the commission is running out of money - or so it seems - even though we are being told of much more ambitious programmes. because again it seems to be a matter of faith, because we don't know about such ambitious proposals. one last note on the democratic change you claim to be driving. he says to bet on transparency: okay, i'll take note. we'll see about that. but that's not enough to restore the public's trust. citizens need another model, another europe, and to be art and part of that change, and i don't see any of that in your programme.
mr president, mr juncker, you have said that you are in love with europe. i invite you to come with me to visit a cie, a social dining room or the fence of melilla, and you will see how quickly the infatuation passes. and now let's translate the work plan into a language we can all understand. let's see what's behind that work plan. their working plan is the free trade agreement with the united states, so that the multinationals can get their way. it's more cuts, more poverty and more unemployment. their work plan is fracking and commissioner cañete's oil exploration. their road map is the privatization of public services to turn our rights into a market. his plan is more tax evasion, juncker-style in luxembourg. in short, new commissioners, a new working plan for an old policy: the titanic policy, which drowns the people while saving those who travel in first class. mr juncker, your work plan is the policy we are going to fight.
mr president, mr juncker, one in three women in the european union is a victim of gender-based violence. i haven't seen anything in your 2015 work priorities to fight this scourge. agriculture, fisheries, the two legs of food sovereignty and which still maintain many jobs in europe; i have seen nothing either. small and medium-sized enterprises, zero. poverty, hunger, social exclusion - i have not seen anything in your priorities to fight against this either. access to housing, or rather, preventing thousands of people from losing their homes every day, is not on their list of priorities either. just as there is nothing about job insecurity, about the loss of social rights, which is increasing every day. nor is there any talk of privatising basic public services such as health and education. is this off your priority list, or did you forget to tell us what you're going to do?
in writing. the european commission's top priority in its work programme for 2015 should be to promote economic growth and job creation. to this end, the submitted investment plan must be carefully managed so that it fulfils its role of attracting private investment and does not remain a mere wish list. the european union must not only promote austerity, which is unfortunately necessary to counter the excessive indebtedness of our economies, but also take the lead in the efforts to revive the economy. another key measure that citizens want to see in 2015 are proposals to converge member states' tax laws with the aim of avoiding new cases of tax engineering that allow large companies to pay less tax than smes. the commission's work programme contains good proposals, such as promoting a digital single market and an energy union, or reducing red tape, but the priority must be to make the investment plan an effective lever for growth and to achieve the promotion of fair and equitable tax legislation.
written. the new way in which the european commission is elected has changed the institution's relationship with the european parliament. dialogue with parliament and better communication will help bring europe closer to citizens. the ten juncker priorities are expected, but citizens expect even more from their implementation on the ground. i particularly welcome the reduction of bureaucracy and the necessary balance between growth, social giving and environmental care. subsidiarity, competitiveness and tax justice are themes i particularly support in the work of the juncker commission, but also cheap energy and new technologies. the most important thing is that the laws are purposeful, that there is no overlap and that they contribute to the basic objective of creating new jobs. i particularly welcome the announcement of a directive on the automatic exchange of data to ensure tax avoidance. i consider the investment plan to be ambitious and feasible if the member states participate seriously in it.
the next item is the joint debate on – the report by eider gardiazabal rubial and monika hohlmeier, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on the new draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 (16739/2014 – c8—0287/2014 – 2014/2224(bud)) a80067/2014),– the report by gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii – commission (16740/2014 – c8—0289/2014 – 2014/2036(bud)) (a8—0069/2014),– the report by gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii – commission (16741/2014 – c8—0290/2014 – 2014/2053(bud)) (a8—0076/2014),– the report by gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii – commission (16742/2014 - c8-0291/2014 – 2014/2073(bud)) (a8-0078/2014),– the report by gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii – commission (16743/2014 – c8—0288/2014 – 2014/2162(bud)) (a8—0074/2014),– the report by gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on draft amending budget no 7/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii – commission (16744/2014 – c8-0292/2014 – 2014/2163(bud)) (a8—0072/2014),– the report by gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2014 of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii – commission (16745/2014 – c8—0293/2014 – 2014/2225(bud)) (a8-0079/2014),– the report by gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on mobilisation of the contingency margin, in accordance with point 14 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (com(2014)0328 – c8—0020/2014 – 2014/2037(bud)) (a8—0068/2014), and– the report by gérard deprez and janusz lewandowski, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec, euratom) no 1150/2000 implementing decision 2007/436/ec, euratom on the system of the european communities’ own resources (com(2014)0704 – c8—0250/2014 – 2014/0332(nle)) (a8-0066/2014).
the rapporteur. madam president, yes, the truth is that we have a bit of work to do in the committee on budgets and that is why we have so many reports to debate today and to vote tomorrow. the truth is that there was little or no sign that we would reach an agreement in time for the 2015 budget or for the much needed 2014 amendments. and this has been thanks to the work and involvement of many of the people here today, in this house. and so i would like to begin by thanking commissioner georgieva and her whole team, the italian presidency, with ambassador sannino at the head, and all my colleagues, because we have worked very hard over the last few months to get this agreement. and i said that there was nothing to suggest that we would have an agreement in time because there were very different positions between the initial proposal of the council and that of parliament, but also very different positions among the members of the european council itself, among the 28 countries themselves. they were distant poses. there were institutional doubts between institutions, between countries, doubts about the figures and, moreover, money in the middle, which is the budget. and so we had an explosive cocktail on the table. three major issues we had to solve: how to end 2014, how to face 2015 and, above all, a plan to solve the defaults in the medium term. i don't think anyone is satisfied with the outcome of the negotiation. and i can certainly say as rapporteur that i am not. neither the figures nor the way the negotiations were conducted nor the lack of political content in the debate. but i also know that, after a whole year of working to get this agreement and to get a budget, the last proposal we had on the table, and which i ask you to support today with your vote tomorrow, is the best agreement we have been able to get. because that agreement puts 4.7 billion more to pay for programs that were already running. that is, an extra 4.7 billion euros for ngos, so that they can continue to support those who need it most, for smes, so that they can continue to finance projects that are key to economic recovery, or for farmers who have been affected by the russian veto, for our municipalities and our regions, so that they can continue to serve the citizens. and because at the end of the day, that's what a budget is about, in this case the european one: serving citizens, whether it's through grants, whether it's through infrastructure improvements, whether it's providing quality food, whether it's helping five million refugees in the middle east, whether it's supporting an innovative project of a small and medium-sized business, whether it's funding food banks, whether it's collaborating with projects against female genital mutilation or female genital mutilation. that's what the budget is all about. and we have fought from the european parliament for these projects to continue to be funded. because the alternative to this was no deal. it was not having a budget for 2015. it was to lose the opportunity to use those extra 4.7 billion euros thanks to revenue not provided for in the union budget. a no-deal scenario would have put at risk the investment programme which the european commission has just presented to us, because it is based 100% on the european budget. we know that 4.7 billion is not enough, because the problem of non-payment is greater. and that's why we've put so much emphasis on seeking a commitment from the council so that we can work from the beginning of 2015 on a real plan to tackle this problem. a plan that should go to the root of the problem. because the union does not have a spending problem: it is only 1% of gross domestic product. we have a revenue problem. and the solution is not to cut payments or cut the budget. the solution is to increase the union's own resources and thus reduce national contributions. i regret that the financial transaction tax is currently frozen because no agreement has been reached at ecofin. that is why i believe that the high level group on own resources is more necessary than ever to be able to provide resources for a strong budget, properly financed and, above all, protected from purely accounting discussions which are sterile. that's what we really need for the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, who do you work for? i am not the only one who asks this question; the citizens who voted for you also ask it, and you cannot really blame them. in this house a neoliberal commission in the service of the powerful has been legitimized and a president who believes that tax evasion and the terrorizing of the greek people is part of his mandate. today we are debating and tomorrow we are voting on the union's 2015 budget, one of the few remaining redistributive and social justice instruments at european level. after a pantomime of negotiation, we are presented here today with an anemic budget, a budget which will continue to destroy the european economy, widening the gap between the peoples of the north and the south and giving wings to the spectre of fascism. tomorrow this parliament can be courageous and reject a short-term, austerity-minded, anti-social and anti-european budget; tomorrow this parliament can say loud and clear that it wants a europe in which greece, germany and spain, in addition to being trading partners, are brother peoples. you can do that or you can continue on your irresponsible path towards the discrediting of institutions, the decline of this continent and the poverty of its people. we already knew that juncker and draghi govern for the financial vampires, but who do you work for? tomorrow you'll have a chance to prove it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mr viotti, i have been in the committee on budgets, like any other member, introducing amendments. i think the work of the united left group has been exemplary in this respect and, in any case, i did not hear any questions in your speech, so i have nothing further to say.
member of the commission.– mr president, i will take as my point of departure the very last words: we are in a tough situation. what we have is not a budget of joy. we may be on the eve of christmas, but what we have is no basis to feel completely relieved of the difficulties in front of us, because they are still there. but it is a budget of responsibility. for those who said ‘why do we not just jump into provisional twelfths, let us forget about this budget deal’, let us remember two things: firstly, provisional twelfths would bring us a lower level of budget simply because 2014 is a so much lower base. but secondly, and most importantly, the probability we now have to secure the amount of money from fines with dab 3 will be much lower when we cross into the new year. faced with this fiscal reality that we would be substantially worse—off – not only because provisional twelfths in the first months would mean a lower budget, but because the injection of fresh cash would be potentially lost or would be much smaller and unable to cure the problem in hand, which is to stabilise unpaid bills – i for one am relieved that the negotiators, the two arms of the budgetary authority, were able to secure this budget for us. this budget is not one of joy, but of responsibility. i want to stress four points here in closing. first, we are bringing the unpaid bills to a more manageable level. the accuracy of our projections still stands, we expect up to eur 25 billion at the end of 2014. this is eur 1.6 billion more than we had at the beginning of this year. we would have liked not to have it. we would have liked to stabilise the level, but at least we have a chance to step into the year less concerned about the mountain of bills than we would have been otherwise. secondly, to those who have been speaking about the accuracy of our data time and again in the negotiations: i am very proud of my team, some of whom are behind me. we have shown that we are very clear; we know the numbers, we understand the trends and we are going to use the clarity of our analysis to underpin the payment plan and to ensure that it becomes a reality. thirdly, i want to repeat once again to those who are worried about our farmers: we have found in this package a way not to dip into the crisis reserve. we are paying, without dipping into the crisis reserve, for the impact of the russian ban and other events in the agricultural markets. fourthly, some spoke about the solidarity fund. since we have a deal, we can provide help to croatia in the order of close to eur 9 million, to bulgaria for eur 10.5 million, and to serbia, a country that is eligible and is now in negotiations. but what is the most important point i want to convey? that i have heard from many of you a desire that we improve our budgetary process. that next year we do better, we engage earlier, we work harder and we reach a deal on a more structured, trust-based basis. if there is one thing i have been very concerned about during these negotiations, it is that they have shown a degree of erosion of trust, and we have – for the sake of our people – to restore trust. we have to build a budget that is more joyful. we need budget negotiations that are a more joyful event than those we are leaving behind. once again, i would like to thank the italian presidency for its sweat and tears. thank you to the negotiators in the parliament. what we have is a budget of responsibility.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the debate and i also thank commissioner georgieva. the agreement on the 2015 budget and all the 2014 amending budgets - i said it at the beginning and i repeat it at the end - shows that we share many objectives and that our positions are not so far apart and that differences can be successfully overcome. as mentioned on several occasions, the budgetary procedure was conducted under particularly difficult conditions this year and it is only thanks to the efforts of each individual actor involved that we were able to reach an agreement on a realistic and balanced budget for 2015 and to curb the growth of unpaid invoices. i would like to stress that the italian presidency is satisfied with the result achieved and is grateful to all of you for the spirit of compromise shown. at the same time, we are aware that, as stated in the joint declarations agreed in the context of the adoption of the budget, we have a lot of work ahead of us for the coming year and i hope that we can carry it forward in the same constructive spirit that marked the final phase of our most recent negotiations.
the rapporteur. mr president, we have had a very interesting debate and it has been a debate which has perfectly reflected the concerns of parliament throughout this year in which we have been working on the budget and, above all, during the negotiations we have had with the council and with the help of the european commission. i think that of all those who have spoken, there has been no one who has not referred to the serious problem of non-payment. some of us are more pro-european and more enthusiastic, others are less so, but all of us who have spoken have spoken of the serious problem of non-payment that the european union has. and it is clear that, from 1 january next year, we must start working on that plan in which we have placed so many hopes and in which we have relied so much to accept this agreement which - as i said in my first speech - is not satisfactory, at least for parliament. and it is not because we really believe that the european union can do much more with a better budget. and as a europeanist, and as i believe that the european budget can contribute a great deal to the european project, i am not satisfied with the agreement we have reached. but it is also true that if it had been for some, we would not have had a budget, we would not have had humanitarian aid, we would not have had erasmus grants and, as the commissioner said, we would not even have had the money to pay for the aid to the 6 000 unemployed whom we voted for this morning in the house, and i think we must also be consistent with that work. so we have a lot of work to do. i think 2015 is going to be a crucial year, because if we can put in place a plan that really does solve the problem of non-payment, we can go through the next few years and the next budget negotiations in a better position than we have faced this year. because the worst part probably wasn't the numbers. the worst part of this negotiation has been to see how the council was unable to find a negotiating position, and to see how some countries were more concerned about seeing the money go home than trying to solve the problems of the country sitting next to them.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for the information you have given us. i welcome the fact that, as has been said, on 9 december the world food programme was able to resume its work of providing food aid to the many displaced and refugees in syria thanks to the contributions made at world level and, of course, at european level. we cannot exclude the possibility that we will find ourselves in the same situation again in the coming months. the international community must therefore be more committed to meeting the needs of these millions of displaced syrians, especially in the face of the impending winter. on the other hand, as you have said, commissioner, we must continue to strive for an inclusive political solution. but as a first and most urgent step, the level of violence must also be reduced. and in this respect i hope that the un special envoy's novel proposal to start by creating these zones or frozen situations free of hostility, the so-called 'local freezes of hostility', can succeed. i would like this new initiative to serve to ensure the safety and avoid the displacement of thousands of syrians. but, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve a political solution we also need to strengthen the moderate syrian forces. they are fragmented, they have lost prominence and they are also attacked by both the regime troops and the terrorist groups active in the region. as i speak of the region, it is also necessary that the neighbouring countries and other international actors influence the parties to end the conflict. and that's the end of it. the european union is a vital player, as you have explained to us, commissioner, in humanitarian aid. it must also be a political solution to the conflict.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i want to congratulate you sincerely on the efficiency and the speed and the sensitivity with which you have pushed for the opening up of a food programme which was absolutely fundamental. i would like to thank you and the commission for your support: five and a half million euros, which is in addition to the previous 18 million euros. but there is a fundamental problem. the fundamental problem is the failure of the governments of the european union and the member states to respect the commitments they have made. it is not possible for parliament and the commission to end up in a constant battle with the council of the european union. i therefore ask you to try to bring the governments of the member states into line and to ensure that when they make a promise they keep it.
mr. president, it might seem like the world is falling apart. these are not my words, but those of the secretary-general of the united nations. the situation has been described by the honourable members. it is critical. let us imagine a european city of about 1.7 million inhabitants. take vienna, for example. imagine if their women, their children, their men were without food and without shelter. wouldn't there be an impressive mobilization to help them? how much mobilization would such a crisis generate? the united nations and its agencies say they can't do any more. they have to be behind the governments so that the governments keep their commitments. and we know that we have to do more, much more than we're doing. and we know that we richer countries should share the burden of refugees for countries that are in a lot of trouble. millions of refugees: in lebanon, in jordan, in turkey. the absorption capacity of these countries is not infinite and we are watching without doing anything in return. unhcr is asking us developed countries to take in 130,000 syrian refugees, which is one tenth of what countries like turkey or lebanon are taking in. brazil, for example, has taken in 1,500 refugees. what are we doing in the european union? this time the situation has been resolved quickly and effectively, commissioner. you have our support to remain so firm and so sensitive.
mr president, for too long now syria has been in the grip of a civil war with absolutely unbearable and dramatic consequences: 200 000 dead; 11 million syrians in need of humanitarian aid today, half of them children; 3.25 million displaced outside syria; 150 000 people who have sought asylum in european union states. and to all this must be added systematic violations of human rights - violations, torture, use of chemical weapons - which are absolutely intolerable. and in this, which is probably the greatest humanitarian tragedy in the world, our response has been absolutely inadequate. that is why the european parliament should send four very clear messages today. the first, which is a shame, a shame, that the un food program, which assists 1.7 million syrians, has had to be suspended, if only momentarily, for the past week. secondly, that assad will never be our partner, but we must recognize him as an actor in order to find a political solution in the area. thirdly, and this is also very important, we must support the initiative of the united nations special envoy to the region. and fourth, and equally relevant, that it is necessary to recognize the work of the 23 million euros that... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission.– madam president, this is an important moment for relations between the european union and ecuador. just a few years after having left the negotiations in 2009, ecuador has now made an important and clear policy choice in favour of trade and integration into the world economy and global value chains. last friday, i met with the ecuadorian trade minister, francisco rivadeneira, and initialled the protocol for the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia-peru agreement. for ecuador, this trade agreement supports its model of society and economic development. we will provide the country with an opportunity to diversify its trade and economy and improve the livelihoods of the population. we should support and encourage this choice, and it is in this perspective that we should consider the regulation as an important complement to the trade agreement. we proposed this regulation very rapidly after the conclusion of the negotiations in order to ensure that there would be no disruption in the preferences that ecuador is enjoying today. i welcome the european parliament and the rapporteur’s quick adoption, extending the preferences and thereby preventing a negative impact on the exports of ecuador. ecuador will, as you know, graduate from the gsp+ preferences at the end of this year, and around 60% of ecuadorian exports to the eu benefit from substantial preferences under this scheme. the regulation that we discussed today will bridge the gap until the agreement fully applies, and that provides certainty and predictability to producers and workers in the eu and, more importantly, in ecuador. if the gap between the graduation from gsp and the entry into force of the agreement were not bridged, ecuador would face a sudden increase in duties in january, only to see them fall back later on. a sudden increase in duties would be a lot when it comes to loss of market share, which is extremely difficult to recuperate later. we would be talking about increases in duties in excess of 20% for products such as tuna and shrimps, and an average increase of duties of more than 15% of all ecuador’s export under the gsp scheme. i am aware that many members in this house attach great importance to the implementation of this regulation, particularly when it comes to the requirement for effective implementation by ecuador of relevant human rights, ilo, environmental conventions and international agreements, as well as the procedure to be used in the event that a suspension of preferences is warranted. this is also important to me, and i raised this with the minister whom i met last week. rest assured that we will monitor this and we will keep parliament informed on the implementation of these provisions. we are ready to inform you, whenever requested to do so, and to ensure the required transparency in the implementation of the regulation, as well as to make use of the good practices that we are developing within the context of the gsp scheme.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam commissioner, thank you very much. the negotiations on the trade agreement between ecuador and the european union were successfully concluded last july. the people's party is convinced that this agreement will be very positive for both parties, although it will take almost two years to come into force. as of next january, ecuador will no longer benefit from the advantages offered by the gsp+ and this mismatch would cause serious damage to economic operators on both sides. the present proposal for a regulation is intended to remedy this situation of interim status and in the inta committee we voted in favour of the commission's proposal by a very large majority, without introducing any amendments, in order to avoid unnecessarily prolonging the negotiation process. the adoption of this regulation will allow both exporters and importers to continue to operate as normal, without suffering a significant increase in tariffs, which could cause irreparable damage to both ecuadorian companies and many european companies operating from ecuador. it is therefore vitally important that we adopt this proposal for a regulation tomorrow and i would like to thank the rapporteur, helmut scholz, for the good work he has done. and i would not like to end without welcoming ecuador to international free trade agreements.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and colleagues for their hard work and good cooperation. i welcome the debate today and the vote we will have on this report tomorrow. after our positive vote in the committee on international trade (inta) last week, it is important to bring it to plenary before the end of the year. the approval of this agreement before the end of the year is important, as many economic contracts in ecuador have to be negotiated now for the next year. i think that free trade agreements more than public debt can push europe again into economic growth. i think that exports more than public deficits are a better way to recover our economic growth. i support the commission’s attempts to open new markets and reduce tariffs and other regulatory areas to facilitate the entry into these markets for eu companies. in the international trade committee liberals voted against the amendments proposed by the rapporteur as we believe that these amendments were risking delaying the application of this agreement. i fully support the extension of preferential access for goods originating from ecuador before the fta enters into force. however, i also believe this should be conditional on ecuador showing a clear commitment that it will open its markets to eu companies. finally, i want to say that the current situation with russia should push us even more to seek new potential markets in asia and central and latin american countries.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate all the parties to this agreement, and in particular mr scholz, on their pragmatism. we shared his amendments, but i think that this regulation has been agreed for the benefit of ecuador and also for europe. i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that europe is probably making a very important decision for itself as well. because, as president of eurolat, i want to tell you that, increasingly, latin americans are looking towards the pacific and not looking towards europe. we are missing out on huge opportunities for political action and commercial action. unfortunately, the european union has a huge responsibility, because we are the territory that cooperates most, that develops most cooperation in latin america, but we are being replaced commercially and politically by china or by russia in latin america. they look away, they don't look here anymore. that is why it is important to take advantage of the agreement with ecuador, because it is of great political importance in the framework of relations with latin america and the alba countries.
member of the commission.– madam president, through the adoption of this regulation exports from ecuador will not be affected until the entry into force of the agreement. this is a necessary interim step and it sends a strong signal, on the one hand, to business that the eu is determined to ensure predictability and stability in trade. on the other hand, it also sends a clear political signal to ecuador and its people that the eu is determined to forge closer relations and to proceed swiftly towards the entry into force of the agreement itself. it can also help ecuador diversify its economy and work towards further eradication of poverty in that country. we are also making progress towards the entry into force of the agreement. i expect that the protocol will be submitted to the european parliament for its consent at some point in the middle of next year. thank you again to the rapporteur, mr scholz, and to the committee on international trade (inta) for the work that they have done in dealing with this file so quickly. i am positive that a proper implementation of this will respond to the preoccupations that some of you have raised today. to ms keller, i would like to say that i share her view that trade can be a very powerful tool in helping least-developed countries to develop and to bring them into the trade community, thereby forging a closer relationship in other areas too. this is clearly in my priorities, and as you know it was presented to you today in the work programme of the commission. we will present a new trade strategy where this element also will be raised. i am looking forward to discussing this internally in the college, with ministers, and with members of this parliament as well. we hope to present a strategy by the end of next year and no later. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to wish you, madam president, and the members a happy christmas. i thank you for the good cooperation we have had so far, and i am looking forward to working with you next year as well.
, in writing. we are not dealing with a free trade agreement, but with an extension of ecuador's export preferences to the eu. these tariff preferences are those contained in the gsp+ which expires on 1 january 2015 and therefore, and until the new eu-ecuador trade framework comes into force, it is important for the people of ecuador that these preferences are extended. although we are against the conditionality that the european commission has tried to impose on ecuador in the wording of the text, by opening the door to the possibility of suspending the tariff preferences if ecuador adopts 'measures' that have some kind of effect on eu imports, and although we consider that any decisions that the commission may take in this regard should be made within the framework of the delegated acts so that parliament can make effective use of its monitoring functions (both issues were amended by my parliamentary group in the inta committee but overturned by the right and the extreme right), we consider it important for the ecuadorian people that these tariff preferences be extended and that they be implemented urgently.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i am pleased to see the high level of agreement on the relevance and purpose of this oral question on the internal security strategy of the european union, which is based on the recognition that both the situation and the challenges of european security have changed dramatically over the last few years. first, because it must address this disturbing combination of new threats arising from cybersecurity, the changing character of international terrorism, the extremely aggressive nature of cross-border crime and, above all, the mix of security threats with those arising from natural events or disasters. that is why we are obliged, in this european parliament, to bring added value to the definition of the situation and the strategic response of the european internal security strategy for the coming years 2015-2019. it is time we recognised that in the face of this dramatically changed security situation in europe, all available resources must first be optimised. we have already said: joint investigation teams, security in police cooperation, strengthening judicial cooperation, intelligence, the effort to share all available information. but it is also time to say that all this must be done in accordance with the values proclaimed by the european union, by the treaty of lisbon, by the eu charter of fundamental rights, which means an effort to be consistent with the value of fundamental rights, in particular data protection, in particular the data protection directive, which is under way in this european parliament, and the case law of the european court of justice interpreting it. it is therefore time to make an effort to ensure that the european union's internal security strategy is extremely respectful of the european culture of fundamental rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the european parliament's rapporteur on humanitarian aid, i would like to draw attention to a point which many might consider to be minor or marginal in the forthcoming european council, which is the ebola issue. but it can never be a marginal matter, something in which thousands of people are losing their lives, even if they are far from us, from the borders of the union. we have to support the response that is being given, because we have not contained ebola. we've slowed the spread, but ebola is still killing thousands of people. we must support the common framework of the european union adopted last week and, in connection with mr stylianides, we must deploy doctors, laboratories and medical services to save human lives and to increase our dignity as a european union, responding to a problem that occurs far from our borders but that affects human beings.
mr president, among the many sectors of public life which urgently require investment, i should like to mention two in particular which seem to me to be extremely important. a major investment is needed in the research sector, which must be seen as a pillar of progress and well-being in europe. research in all fields, in universities, in the big research centres which, unfortunately, have reduced their capacity. of course, we must encourage research in the industrial field and in the field of alternative energy sources. a large investment is also needed in youth policy, particularly in education, vocational training and employment. social and scientific research and a policy to support young people and research are the key to our future, which must be prepared today, because if the crisis is to strike tomorrow, it is already happening today. i want to be specific not only because these areas seem very important to me, but also because i am surprised and very surprised that the spanish government has been the only government in the european union to present half a page of incredibly vague petitions, which favour very flexible interpretations, or even absolutely arbitrary policies. i would therefore like to emphasize these two points: research and young people.
madam president, mr juncker, the next european council is very important. i'm going to convey to him what my voters - who support him - expect from him. spanish voters believe that it is essential to strengthen coordination in tax matters in order to encourage investment and ensure the smooth functioning of the single market. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion must be stepped up. secondly, spanish voters believe it is important to continue to work for a true energy union, which will ensure our citizens a competitive and sustainable market with sufficient energy interconnections to ensure supply at a reasonable price. thirdly, we need europe to remain a safe and secure place. we must intensify the fight against terrorism, solve the problem of the return of foreign fighters and create our own energy to face new challenges. the european union must react to the murder of more than a hundred children in peshawar, a hundred children who died in a school. every time a child dies in a school, it should be as if a child died in a school in europe. the spirit of malala must accompany our fight for freedom and against terrorism always. fourthly, we need solidarity to develop a common border policy which places irregular immigration as a priority on our external agenda. now that there are no internal borders, i can say that the city of melilla or the city of ceuta are also borders of france, germany or sweden: they are borders of everyone. finally, mr president, we must talk about ukraine, but we must also talk about russia. we must anticipate the consequences for the european economy and jobs of a collapse of the russian economy next winter. yesterday's news and today's news should not only concern us, they should also occupy us. and, moreover, my voters wish you, after the council, when your work is done, a merry christmas. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. mr gonzález pons, i think it is very good what you say about the energy industry in europe. how do you explain that energy in spain is the most expensive in europe? why is the european energy industry being protected? why are almost 1.35 billion euros being given to mr florentino pérez? and you know that they paid it in thirty-three days, not in thirty-five or six months or nine months. i mean, my problem is: why complain about european energy without fixing spanish energy?
the answer is 'blue card'. first of all, i would like to thank the spanish member, mr terricabras, for addressing me in spanish for once in this house. secondly, i would say that the spanish government is trying to reduce the cost of energy, the price of energy for the spanish people, but it is also trying to make energy competitive and an instrument of progress for spain and for europe. we would like to be able to link the iberian peninsula with the rest of europe through the pyrenees so that algerian gas can compete with the possible lack of russian gas, next winter, throughout the european union.
the answer is 'blue card'. mr szanyi, yes, i know!
madam president, mr rajoy, the spanish prime minister, said last week that this was going to be the christmas of economic recovery. mr weber said today that the countries which have implemented structural reforms have become the locomotive of the european economy. and i tell you both not to know what's going on. that his words are an insult to the families who are losing their homes to eviction. that his words are an insult to young people who have to go outside europe to find work. that his words are an insult to the families and dependents who are losing their rights. and now ecofin has decided to decaffeinate the financial transaction tax. we say we need to bring in more, but we can't do that by drowning out the middle class and the working class. let us make those who are at the origin of this situation pay and from whom we have never asked anything, because in this way we will be talking about the possibility of a fairer way out of the crisis. we owe it to the citizens. not the voters, but the european citizens.
madam president, we in spain already know very well what the juncker investment plan is all about. we do not need anyone to explain it to us, because we are already suffering from it, even before it is applied. because the pilot project of this plan has been the castor project, an undersea gas storage facility financed with bonds backed by the european investment bank. a failed project, which has cost the public purse €1.35 billion. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment. the public procurement officer, we could call him. this is the juncker plan: public money backing large private investments, in many cases useless. this is a good summary of the juncker plan. how many more checks do you have lined up? in whose name?
president of the commission. - madam president! - what is it? i admire your keen sense of humour, but i am all the more inclined to accept this amusing invitation, since i was supposed to leave here at half past ten, and therefore i have good reason, after having endured to the bitter end, to say in one minute that most of the questions raised here were answered in detail by me yesterday and the day before and in previous debates, which actually relieves me of the obligation to answer them again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would just like to point out once again - just to make it clear - that we are in dire need of the european parliament's help in order to implement this investment plan. we shall submit the necessary texts to parliament in january. i hope that parliament will act quickly on this plan. the investment programme itself also needs the active support of european governments. the newspaper reading - which i sometimes come across, although not regularly enough - tells me that there are at least six heads of government who have so far said that the parliament is good, that a first step has been taken, but that the package is a bit small and small. but no one has yet said how many billions he wants to contribute to this guarantee. i expect the european council to collapse tomorrow and the day after tomorrow under the flood of money being moved. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the program starts where it needs to start. we have no public money to put into circulation without widening deficits and adding to the mountains of debt. so i think it would be smart to put the money that can be mobilised from the european budget into investment and to provide for investment in the real economy. who else is going to invest in europe if not the private capital that is plentiful? (applause from the centre) we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. the commission will not itself select these projects to be monitored. i repeat: if the commission does what many are calling for, instead of having experts who understand something of economics and business take over this task, then we will be under constant pressure every day and every hour to make this or that programme because a government or a member of parliament wants it. (applause from the centre) i believe that it is important to support and finance projects with long-term growth potential. we shouldn't build new cathedrals, because we're already struggling to fill churches and chapels with believers, not build tunnels through mountains that you can also cross, you don't have to go through them all. projects with meaning, not just projects for the sake of projects. i would therefore also like to counter the impression that we have no other intention than to finance the nuclear industry, additional nuclear power stations. that is not at all the commission's intention. the energy mix is a national matter, not a commission matter. for the rest, madam president, i am not at all impressed by those who, for some days now, have ordered me to remain silent when others have invited me to speak. why should the president of the commission be the only one who is not entitled to express his opinion and his convictions? i'm not going to the party. you very often discuss not as a european parliament, but as national parliaments that are facing each other. i am a political man. i'm not trying to get rid of parole. i'll say what i have to say. and if it concerns a particular country, it concerns a particular country. the commission is not the only one to have to deal with this problem. i'm not going to let you go. (applause from the centre)
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank you for this morning's debate. i would also like to refer to the considerations which have been put to the test by the commission. i am not making any predictions about the outcome of tomorrow's council but, as i said in my introductory remarks, i will certainly convey your views, your expectations, the criticisms that have been made, the encouragement that has been given, both at the general level and at the sectoral level, as regards the part of the debate that concerned the investment plan, the so-called juncker plan. as you know, this european council will be the first under the new president, donald tusk, and it will also be the first for the new president of the commission, jean claude juncker. although both are new to their respective posts, they have considerable experience gained from previous european council meetings, as do some of the members of this parliament. i would like to say that the commission has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the council will be very active in this area.
in writing. in the light of what the commission and the council have said about the european investment plan in the course of the debate on the european council, i would like to say the following: 1) since the start of the crisis in 2007-2008, the gdp growth differential between the european union and the euro area, and the united states, has been on average higher than one percentage point per year, as a result of failed ultra-fast structural adjustment policies. the european investment plan will not be effective if it does not at least make the stability and growth pact more flexible (which will have to be reformed anyway). the economic governance package therefore needs to be revised as soon as possible to make it a useful tool for growth and jobs. 2) the european investment plan is expected to catalyse €252 billion of private investment with €63 billion in public loans, with only €21 billion in public guarantees. these estimates have been questioned by various experts. in addition to national contributions, the commission should make a proposal to link the financial transaction tax to the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. in the light of what the commission and the council have said on the european investment plan in the course of the european council debate, i would point out that since the onset of the crisis in 2007-08, the gdp growth differential between the european union and the euro area, and the united states, has been on average higher than one percentage point per year, as a result of failed ultra-fast structural adjustment policies. the european investment plan will not be effective if it does not at least make the stability and growth pact more flexible (which will have to be reformed anyway). the economic governance package therefore needs to be revised as soon as possible to make it a useful tool for growth and jobs. the european investment plan is expected to catalyse €252 billion of private investment with €63 billion in public loans, with only €21 billion in public guarantees. these estimates have been questioned by various experts. in addition to national contributions, the commission should make a proposal to link the financial transaction tax to the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. in the light of what the commission and the council have said on the european investment plan in the course of the european council debate, i would like to say the following: 1) since the start of the crisis in 2007-2008, the gdp growth differential between the european union and the euro area and the united states has been, on average, above one percentage point per year, as a result of failed ultra-fast structural adjustment policies. the european investment plan will not be effective if it does not at least make the stability and growth pact more flexible (which will have to be reformed anyway). the economic governance package therefore needs to be revised as soon as possible to make it a useful tool for growth and jobs. 2) the european investment plan is expected to catalyse €252 billion of private investment with €63 billion in public loans, with only €21 billion in public guarantees. these estimates have been questioned by various experts. in addition to national contributions, the commission should make a proposal to link the financial transaction tax to the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. in the light of what the commission and the council have said about the european investment plan in the course of the debate on the european council, i would like to say the following: 1) since the start of the crisis in 2007-2008, the gdp growth differential between the european union and the euro area, and the united states, has been on average higher than one percentage point per year, as a result of failed ultra-fast structural adjustment policies. the european investment plan will not be effective if it does not at least make the stability and growth pact more flexible (which will have to be reformed anyway). the economic governance package therefore needs to be revised as soon as possible to make it a useful tool for growth and jobs. 2) the european investment plan is expected to catalyse €252 billion of private investment with €63 billion in public loans, with only €21 billion in public guarantees. these estimates have been questioned by various experts. in addition to national contributions, the commission should make a proposal to link the financial transaction tax to the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. europe needs an investment plan to stimulate the regions most affected by unemployment, develop its welfare state and finance a new industrial policy. it should allocate public funding to support the diversification of the productive structure of each state, facilitating its adaptation towards an environmentally and socially sustainable model. the juncker plan is something very different. it offers no new money, but a huge public subsidy to the investment of large private companies in transport and energy infrastructure, and a lever for the privatization of the management of social services, health, education or housing. a group of technocrats will be responsible for watching over the markets so that the main decisions on the production and social model are not taken by the people, but by the markets. we also regret the lack of concreteness and transparency in the projects which the spanish government wishes to support under the juncker plan. we must not forget the experience of the castor project, whereby the state imposed, against the wishes of the population and in the most absolute opacity, a hugely controversial infrastructure whose failure we have all paid for. without public control and democratic oversight, these will be the tragic consequences of the plan they are presenting to the council.
in writing. in the light of what the commission and the council have said about the european investment plan in the course of the debate on the european council, i would like to say the following: 1) since the start of the crisis in 2007-2008, the gdp growth differential between the european union and the euro area, and the united states, has been on average higher than one percentage point per year, as a result of failed ultra-fast structural adjustment policies. the european investment plan will not be effective if it does not at least make the stability and growth pact more flexible (which will have to be reformed anyway). the economic governance package therefore needs to be revised as soon as possible to make it a useful tool for growth and jobs. 2) the european investment plan is expected to catalyse €252 billion of private investment with €63 billion in public loans, with only €21 billion in public guarantees. these estimates have been questioned by various experts. in addition to national contributions, the commission should make a proposal to link the financial transaction tax to the european fund for strategic investments.
mr. chairman, i also support the change of the autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova. i very much welcome the fact that this proposal has received a lot of support, because it is a clear signal that the republic of moldova is not alone alongside the russian federation and that when the russian federation sanctions a small country for wanting to be a partner of the european union, the european union clearly responds by opening its market to agricultural products and thus helping moldova in its struggle to prosper and survive economically and to have its own foreign policy independent of the russian federation. so i don't see it as just an economic decision, an economic advantage, but i see it as a clear political decision to help a small country that the russian federation is treating unfairly and punishing and sanctioning for wanting moldova to have a free, independent foreign policy. i therefore thank you for accepting this proposal and hope that it will greatly help moldova's economy and that moldova will be a strong partner of the european union in the future.
in writing. the autonomous trade preferences (atp) system was granted to moldova in january 2008 until december 2015. on 21 july 2014, as a result of the signature of the eu-moldova free trade agreement, russia imposed sanctions on moldovan agricultural products, which are damaging its economy, as agriculture in that country represents 40% of the economy. this sector employs 250,000 people. the commission therefore proposes to extend the atp regulation to three products: plums, apples and grapes. i have voted in favour of the report because the eu can easily absorb imports of these three products.
in writing. i voted in favour as an act of solidarity. in recent years, the eu and moldova have strengthened their relations with an association agreement which has been applied since 1 september 2014. as a result of this improvement in relations, russia has, for political reasons, decided to ban the import of products from moldova, affecting more than 250 000 people in small and mediumsized enterprises in the horticultural sector from rural areas. the moldovan authorities have asked for assistance and parliament has decided to amend the regulation by introducing three new free tariff quotas for apples, fresh plums and table grapes, hoping that these decisions will improve the moldovan economy.
in writing. in response to the intensification of the eu's political and economic relations with moldova, as outlined in the association agreement signed last june 2014, which also includes a deep and wide free trade area, russia has responded by banning imports of agricultural products from moldova, which has been in place since 21 july 2014. the pressure that russia is exerting on moldova is manifested in a significant loss of its economic resilience and the slowdown of its reform process. in order to support the ongoing reform process undertaken by moldova with a view to political association and further economic integration with the eu, i voted in favour of temporarily increasing the liberalisation of trade access for certain moldovan products to the eu - namely, apples, plums and table grapes - and thus reducing the economic impact of the russian ban. the imports of these three types of fruit from moldova represented 0,01% of the total eu imports in the year 2013, so the eu market will have no problems to easily absorb this increase in imports.
in writing. the s&d group supports providing economic support to moldova to strengthen its political will in the current reform process and its european path.
in writing. the autonomous trade preferences (atp) system was granted to moldova in january 2008 until december 2015. on 21 july 2014, as a result of the signature of the eu-moldova free trade agreement, russia imposed sanctions on moldovan agricultural products, which are damaging its economy, as agriculture in that country represents 40% of the economy. this sector employs 250,000 people. the commission therefore proposes to extend the atp regulation to three products: plums, apples and grapes. i have voted in favour of the report because the eu can easily absorb imports of these three products.
in writing. we voted in favour because this agreement will not affect the rest of the european agricultural sector and will help the sector in moldova, which employs 250 000 people (10% of the working population), who live mainly in rural areas and also work on small and medium-sized farms. these are certain quantities of apples, plums and grapes which will be exported mainly to romania and which will therefore not have a negative impact on the european agricultural sector. since the implementation of the preferential trade access (pta) which replaced gsp+, products originating in moldova are duty-free, except for some products from the agricultural sector. but with the embargo imposed by russia since 21 july 2014 on agricultural products, this sector has been severely damaged. therefore, in order to mitigate the social impact of this embargo, this agreement is proposed, which will allow small and medium-sized farmers to keep their jobs for the next year (this agreement would apply until december 2015, when the preferential trade access expires).
in writing. - we voted in favour because this agreement will not affect the rest of the european agricultural sector and will help the sector in moldova, which employs 250 000 people (10% of the working population), who live mainly in rural areas and also work on small and mediumsized agricultural holdings. these are certain quantities of apples, plums and grapes which will be exported mainly to romania and which will therefore not have a negative impact on the european agricultural sector. since the implementation of the preferential trade access (pta) which replaced gsp+, products originating in moldova are duty-free, except for some products from the agricultural sector. but with the embargo imposed by russia since 21 july 2014 on agricultural products, this sector has been severely damaged. therefore, in order to mitigate the social impact of this embargo, this agreement is proposed, which will allow small and medium-sized farmers to keep their jobs for the next year (this agreement would apply until december 2015, when the preferential trade access expires).
in writing. - we voted in favour because this agreement will not affect the rest of the european agricultural sector and will help the sector in moldova, which employs 250 000 people (10% of the working population), who live mainly in rural areas and also work on small and mediumsized agricultural holdings. these are certain quantities of apples, plums and grapes which will be exported mainly to romania and which will therefore not have a negative impact on the european agricultural sector. since the implementation of the preferential trade access (pta) which replaced gsp+, products originating in moldova are duty-free, except for some products from the agricultural sector. but with the embargo imposed by russia since 21 july 2014 on agricultural products, this sector has been severely damaged. therefore, in order to mitigate the social impact of this embargo, this agreement is proposed, which will allow small and medium-sized farmers to keep their jobs for the next year (this agreement would apply until december 2015, when the preferential trade access expires).
in writing. in 2008, tariff preferences were granted to moldova under the european neighbourhood policy. and last june 2014, the eu and moldova signed an association agreement, including a deep and wide-ranging free trade area, from which moldova has adopted an ambitious political agenda towards political association and further economic integration with the eu. unfortunately, in the face of the intensification of the eu's political and economic relations with moldova, russia has responded by banning imports of agricultural products from this country. the s&d group is in favour of providing economic support to moldova by extending these agreements in order to strengthen its political will in the current reform process and its european path.
in writing. the autonomous trade preferences (atp) system was granted to moldova in january 2008 until december 2015. on 21 july 2014, as a result of the signature of the eu-moldova free trade agreement, russia imposed sanctions on moldovan agricultural products, which are damaging its economy, as agriculture in that country represents 40% of the economy. this sector employs 250,000 people. the commission therefore proposes to extend the atp regulation to three products: plums, apples and grapes. i have voted in favour of the report because the eu can easily absorb imports of these three products.
in writing. the autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova were originally introduced by the eu by regulation (ec) no 55/2008 (the pca regulation), for a period ending on 31 december 2015. in recent years, the eu and moldova have intensified their relations by concluding an association agreement, which will lead to the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) between the two parties. on 21 july 2014, russia imposed a ban on the import of moldovan agricultural products, which is significantly affecting the moldovan economy. they have therefore turned to the eu for urgent support to reduce this impact, in particular for three products: apples, plums and table grapes. the commission proposed to amend the pca regulation by introducing three new duty-free tariff quotas for these products under the pca regulation in addition to the proposed quotas under the ccfta. the commission has also received comments from the moldovan authorities, which have not yet received any comments from the moldovan authorities. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. in response to the intensification of the eu's political and economic relations with moldova, as outlined in the association agreement signed last june 2014, which also includes a deep and wide free trade area, russia has responded by banning imports of agricultural products from moldova, which has been in place since 21 july 2014. the pressure that russia is exerting on moldova is manifested in a significant loss of its economic resilience and the slowdown of its reform process. in order to support the ongoing reform process undertaken by moldova with a view to political association and further economic integration with the eu, i voted in favour of temporarily increasing the liberalisation of trade access for certain moldovan products to the eu, namely 'apples, plums and table grapes', and thus reducing the economic impact of the russian ban. the imports of these three types of fruit from moldova represented 0,01% of the total eu imports in the year 2013, so the eu market will have no problems to easily absorb this increase in imports.
in writing. - we voted in favour because this agreement will not affect the rest of the european agricultural sector and will help the sector in moldova, which employs 250 000 people (10% of the working population), who live mainly in rural areas and also work on small and mediumsized agricultural holdings. these are certain quantities of apples, plums and grapes which will be exported mainly to romania and which will therefore not have a negative impact on the european agricultural sector. since the implementation of the preferential trade access (pta) which replaced gsp+, products originating in moldova are duty-free, except for some products from the agricultural sector. but with the embargo imposed by russia since 21 july 2014 on agricultural products, this sector has been severely damaged. therefore, in order to mitigate the social impact of this embargo, this agreement is proposed, which will allow small and medium-sized farmers to keep their jobs for the next year (this agreement would apply until december 2015, when the preferential trade access expires).
in writing. i voted in favour because this agreement will not affect the rest of the european agricultural sector and will help the sector in moldova. the agricultural sector in moldova employs 250 000 people (10% of the active population) who live mainly in rural areas and work on small and medium-sized farms. the tariff preferences will affect apples, plums and grapes, which will be exported mainly to romania and will therefore not have a negative impact on the rest of the european sector. since the implementation of the preferential trade access, which replaced the gsp+, products originating in moldova are duty-free, except for certain products from the agricultural sector. the russian embargo on agricultural products since 21 july 2014 has severely damaged this sector. therefore, in order to mitigate the social impact of this embargo, this agreement is proposed, which will allow small and medium-sized farmers to keep their jobs for the next year (this agreement would apply until december 2015, when the preferential trade access expires).
in writing. - the autonomous trade preference (atp) system was granted to moldova in january 2008 until december 2015. on 21 july 2014, as a result of the signature of the eu-moldova free trade agreement, russia imposed sanctions on moldovan agricultural products, which are damaging its economy, as agriculture in that country represents 40% of the economy. this sector employs 250,000 people. the commission proposes to extend the atp regulation to three products: plums, apples and grapes. i voted against this report because it is going to harm the farmers on both sides; it is an agreement to give cheap raw materials to the agricultural exporters.
in writing. in this report we voted to extend the gsp+ for ecuador from january 2015 on the condition that the eu-ecuador free trade agreement is signed before 31 december 2016. i cannot vote in favour of this report because, although i am not against the extension of the gsp+, i cannot accept that it be made conditional on the signing of the free trade agreement, since i am against it. that is why i abstained.
in writing. negotiations with ecuador for accession to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and colombia and peru were concluded on 17 july. the multilateral agreement will provide a new framework in relations between ecuador and the eu. a provisional time limit has been established to ensure that customs duties will not be increased on the date specified in the protocol in order to reduce the burden on eu importers of goods exported from ecuador. in short, it takes time to carry out all the internal procedures for the eu and also for ecuador before the accession protocol is applied. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal on the tariff treatment of goods originating in ecuador.
in writing. negotiations for the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement were concluded on 17 july 2014. however, the entry into force of the eu-ecuador agreement will not be effective until late 2015 or early 2016, once the authentication and ratification procedures of the text are completed. taking into account that ecuador will lose, as from 1 january 2015, its status as a beneficiary of the generalised system of preferences plus (gsp+) which it has enjoyed until now, having been declared by the world bank as an upper-middle income country, it is necessary to freeze the customs duties currently applied and to ensure that no new duties are applied to products originating in ecuador, thus avoiding unnecessary disruption to trade until the completion of the procedures necessary for the application of the protocol of accession. i therefore voted without amendment for the commission's proposal for a regulation to apply from 1 january 2015 and until six months after the entry into force of the accession protocol or until 31 december 2016, whichever is the earlier.
in writing. the spanish socialist delegation has defended from the outset, within the s&d group, the need to give a firm and responsible response to our political commitment to ecuador and our companies, above interinstitutional disputes, which could well be resolved in another context.
in writing. in this report we voted to extend the gsp+ for ecuador from january 2015 on the condition that the eu-ecuador free trade agreement is signed before 31 december 2016. i cannot vote in favour of this report because, although i am not against the extension of the gsp+, i cannot accept that it be made conditional on the signing of the free trade agreement, since i am against it. that is why i abstained.
in writing. we voted in favour. this is not a free trade agreement but a proposal for a regulation extending the export preferences of ecuador to the eu under the gsp+, which expires on 1 january 2015, until the future free trade agreement enters into force. although we are against the conditionality imposed by the european commission on ecuador in the wording of the text (which allows for the suspension of tariff preferences if ecuador adopts 'measures' which have some kind of effect on eu imports) and although we consider that any decisions the commission may take in this respect should be made under the framework of delegated acts so that parliament can make effective use of its monitoring functions (both issues to which we are submitting amendments, which were tabled in the inta committee by the right and the far right), we consider it important for the ecuadorian people that these tariff preferences be extended and that they be implemented as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - we voted yes. this is not a free trade agreement but a proposal for a regulation extending the export preferences of ecuador to the eu under the gsp+, which expires on 1 january 2015, until the future free trade agreement enters into force. although we are against the conditionality imposed by the european commission on ecuador in the wording of the text (which allows for the suspension of tariff preferences if ecuador adopts 'measures' which have some kind of effect on eu imports) and although we consider that any decisions the commission may take in this respect should be made under the framework of delegated acts so that parliament can make effective use of its monitoring functions (both issues to which we are submitting amendments, which were tabled in the inta committee by the right and the far right), we consider it important for the ecuadorian people that these tariff preferences be extended and that they be implemented as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - we voted yes. this is not a free trade agreement but a proposal for a regulation extending the export preferences of ecuador to the eu under the gsp+, which expires on 1 january 2015, until the future free trade agreement enters into force. although we are against the conditionality imposed by the european commission on ecuador in the wording of the text (which allows for the suspension of tariff preferences if ecuador adopts 'measures' which have some kind of effect on eu imports) and although we consider that any decisions the commission may take in this respect should be made under the framework of delegated acts so that parliament can make effective use of its monitoring functions (both issues to which we are submitting amendments, which were tabled in the inta committee by the right and the far right), we consider it important for the ecuadorian people that these tariff preferences be extended and that they be implemented as a matter of urgency.
in writing. in this report we voted to extend the gsp+ for ecuador from january 2015 on the condition that the eu-ecuador free trade agreement is signed before 31 december 2016. i cannot vote in favour of this report because, although i am not against the extension of the gsp+, i cannot accept that it be made conditional on the signing of the free trade agreement, since i am against it. that is why i abstained.
in writing. negotiations for the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement were concluded on 17 july 2014. however, the entry into force of the eu-ecuador agreement will not be effective until late 2015 or early 2016, once the authentication and ratification procedures of the text are completed. taking into account that ecuador will lose, as from 1 january 2015, its status as a beneficiary of the generalised system of preferences plus (gsp+) which it has enjoyed until now, having been declared by the world bank as an upper-middle income country, it is necessary to freeze the customs duties currently applied and to ensure that no new duties are applied to products originating in ecuador, thus avoiding unnecessary disruption to trade until the completion of the procedures necessary for the application of the protocol of accession. i therefore voted without amendment for the commission's proposal for a regulation to apply from 1 january 2015 and until six months after the entry into force of the accession protocol or until 31 december 2016, whichever is the earlier.
in writing. - we voted yes. this is not a free trade agreement but a proposal for a regulation extending the export preferences of ecuador to the eu under the gsp+, which expires on 1 january 2015, until the future free trade agreement enters into force. although we are against the conditionality imposed by the european commission on ecuador in the wording of the text (which allows for the suspension of tariff preferences if ecuador adopts 'measures' which have some kind of effect on eu imports) and although we consider that any decisions the commission may take in this respect should be made under the framework of delegated acts so that parliament can make effective use of its monitoring functions (both issues to which we are submitting amendments, which were tabled in the inta committee by the right and the far right), we consider it important for the ecuadorian people that these tariff preferences be extended and that they be implemented as a matter of urgency.
in writing. i voted in favour. this is not a free trade agreement but a proposal for a regulation extending the export preferences of ecuador to the eu under the gsp+, which expires on 1 january 2015, until the future free trade agreement enters into force. although we are against the conditionality imposed by the european commission on ecuador in the wording of the text (which allows for the suspension of tariff preferences if ecuador adopts 'measures' which have some kind of effect on eu imports) and although we consider that any decisions the commission may take in this respect should be made under the framework of delegated acts so that parliament can make effective use of its monitoring functions (both issues to which we are submitting amendments, which were tabled in the inta committee by the right and the far right), we consider it important for the ecuadorian people that these tariff preferences be extended and that they be implemented as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - in this report we voted to extend the gsp+ for ecuador from january 2015 on the condition that the free trade agreement between the eu and ecuador is signed before 31 december 2016. i cannot vote in favour of this report because, although i am not against the extension of the gsp+, i cannot accept that it be made conditional on the signing of the free trade agreement, since i am against it. that is why i abstained.
in writing. — i strongly believe in free trade agreements and the potential they have for the eu countries and economies. i support the commission’s attempts to open new markets and reduce tariffs and other regulatory barriers to facilitate the entry into these markets for eu companies. i believe europe can only grow through exports and not by creating more public debt in the eu with huge infrastructure projects. in inta, alde decided to vote against the four blocks of amendments proposed by the rapporteur, as we believed that a lot of these amendments risked delaying the entry into force of this agreement and we do not think this is a positive thing for ecuador but also for the eu. the approval of this agreement was important before the end of the year as economic contracts in ecuador had to be negotiated now for next year. i also believe ecuador should show a clear commitment that it will open its market to eu companies. as liberals, we always favoured a smooth adoption of this regulation.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it proposes a solution to ensure that the eu budget pays outstanding payments, it does not offer a sustainable solution. the defaults the eu is trying to cover with this mobilisation of funds are not unforeseen but are the debt of the past financial year which it has decided not to act on. the eu must establish a credible budgetary framework to deal with outstanding payments and not try to solve crises with patches that will aggravate the problem of arrears in the medium term. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the contingency margin because, in the implementation of the mff 2014-2020, the backlog of payments and outstanding invoices increased, with a level of outstanding commitments above the amount envisaged when the mff 2007-2013 was adopted. this unsustainable situation must be resolved and the use of the flexibility mechanism must be included so as not to jeopardise the implementation of european policy and programmes and to reduce interest claims for late payments which would worsen the situation.
in writing. implementation of the mff 2014-2020 started with a huge backlog of payments, with outstanding invoices amounting to some eur 23 400 million at the end of 2013 in cohesion policy alone, while the level of outstanding commitments to be settled reached eur 221 700 million on the same date, i.e. eur 41 000 million above the amount initially planned when the mff 2007-2013 was adopted. this situation calls for urgent measures, such as the use of the flexibility mechanisms provided for in the mff regulation, in order not to jeopardise the implementation of eu policies and programmes. i have therefore voted in favour of mobilising the contingency margin in 2014 to make available an amount of eur 3 168 233 715 in payment appropriations above the payment ceiling of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it proposes a solution to ensure that the eu budget pays outstanding payments, it does not offer a sustainable solution. the defaults the eu is trying to cover with this mobilisation of funds are not unforeseen but are the debt of the past financial year which it has decided not to act on. the eu must establish a credible budgetary framework to deal with outstanding payments and not try to solve crises with patches that will aggravate the problem of arrears in the medium term. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission, at the request of parliament, has presented a draft amending budget (oj no 5/2014, 8.9.2014) with a view to entering in the 2014 budget the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations of eur 46 998 528 in accordance with point 26 of the iac, as pursued by the socialist and democratic group.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it proposes a solution to ensure that the eu budget pays outstanding payments, it does not offer a sustainable solution. the defaults the eu is trying to cover with this mobilisation of funds are not unforeseen but are the debt of the past financial year which it has decided not to act on. the eu must establish a credible budgetary framework to deal with outstanding payments and not try to solve crises with patches that will aggravate the problem of arrears in the medium term. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the implementation of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework started with a huge backlog of payments, which makes the situation unacceptable and requires urgent measures, such as the use of the flexibility mechanisms included in the mff regulation, in order not to jeopardise the implementation of eu policies and programmes, and limiting claims for interest in delay, avoiding excessive economic exposure and vulnerability of beneficiaries of the union budget. the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2014 is approved as it does not entail any increase in the overall payment ceiling of the mff 2014-2020, as provided for in article 13 (4) of the mff regulation, when offset against the margins for future years as provided for in article 13 (3) of the mff regulation. this will allow the union budget to become increasingly flexible and the eur 350 million in payment appropriations mobilised in 2014 to be booked outside the payment ceiling. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. implementation of the mff 2014-2020 started with a huge backlog of payments, with outstanding invoices amounting to some eur 23 400 million at the end of 2013 in cohesion policy alone, while the level of outstanding commitments to be settled reached eur 221 700 million on the same date, i.e. eur 41 000 million above the amount initially planned when the mff 2007-2013 was adopted. this situation calls for urgent measures, such as the use of the flexibility mechanisms provided for in the mff regulation, in order not to jeopardise the implementation of eu policies and programmes. i have therefore voted in favour of mobilising the contingency margin in 2014 to make available an amount of eur 3 168 233 715 in payment appropriations above the payment ceiling of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it proposes a solution to ensure that the outstanding payments are made from the eu budget, it does not offer a sustainable solution. the defaults the eu is trying to cover with this mobilisation of funds are not unforeseen but are the debt of the past financial year which it has decided not to act on. the eu must establish a credible budgetary framework to deal with outstanding payments and not try to solve crises with patches that will aggravate the problem of arrears in the medium term. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. — i agree with the crucial need for the union budget to be increasingly flexible for the mobilisation of the contingency margin for 2014, specially if the financing of this mobilisation can take place at virtually no cost to national budgets due to other unexpected additional revenues for the year 2014. whereas the implementation of the mff 2014-2020 started with a huge backlog in payments, with unpaid bills this situation is unacceptable and requires urgent measures, having recourse to the flexibility mechanisms included in the mff regulation, with a view to not jeopardising the delivery of eu policies and programmes.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of the draft amending budget because it does not provide a sufficient answer to the hole in the european union's budgets as a whole. this is a problem of payroll defaults for eu officials, which requires an urgent solution, but it is a problem of defaults which have been ongoing since the 2010 financial year and, once again, it is a problem of resolving crises with patches which will aggravate the problem of defaults in the european institutions in the medium term. the actual payment of millions of euros is still being played with without proposing a new budgetary framework capable of solving the problem. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework started with a backlog of payments and outstanding invoices of eur 23 400 million at the end of 2013 and commitment levels above those originally planned, following which the parliament, the council and the commission decided in november 2013 that the union should have sufficient and necessary resources to cover the 2014 legal obligations. it is therefore necessary to approve amending budgets no 3/2014, no 4/2014, no 6/2014 and no 8/2014, which will compensate for the needs of the additional payments.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, an agreement has been reached to pay outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.7 billion for the period 2014-2015 has been agreed. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. over the course of this year, an unprecedented level of defaults has accumulated. the agreed eur 4.7 billion will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. it is true that the figure is not enough, but the alternative, no agreement, would have dire consequences: not having a fully operational budget for 2015, losing the possibility of paying back the overdue invoices and putting at risk the investment programme that the commission has just presented. for 2015, eur 145 321.5 million has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214.040 563 million for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of the draft amending budget because it does not provide a sufficient answer to the hole in the european union's budgets as a whole. this is a problem of payroll defaults for eu officials, which requires an urgent solution, but it is a problem of defaults which have been ongoing since the 2010 financial year and, once again, it is a problem of resolving crises with patches which will aggravate the problem of defaults in the european institutions in the medium term. the actual payment of millions of euros is still being played with without proposing a new budgetary framework capable of solving the problem. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the 3rd amending budget because it is understood that it gives a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidary agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the 3rd amending budget because it is understood that it gives a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidary agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of the draft amending budget because it does not provide a sufficient answer to the hole in the european union's budgets as a whole. this is a problem of payroll defaults for eu officials, which requires an urgent solution, but it is a problem of defaults which have been ongoing since the 2010 financial year and, once again, it is a problem of resolving crises with patches which will aggravate the problem of defaults in the european institutions in the medium term. the actual payment of millions of euros is still being played with without proposing a new budgetary framework capable of solving the problem. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, an agreement has been reached to pay outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion for the period 2014-2015 has been agreed. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. over the course of this year, an unprecedented level of defaults has accumulated. the agreed eur 4.8 billion will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. for 2015, eur 145 321.5 million has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214.040 563 million for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the 3rd amending budget because it is understood that it gives a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidary agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the 3rd amending budget because it is understood that it gives a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidary agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of the draft amending budget because it does not provide a sufficient answer to the hole in the european union's budgets as a whole. this is a problem of payroll defaults for eu officials, which requires an urgent solution, but it is a problem of defaults which have been ongoing since the 2010 financial year and, once again, it is a problem of resolving crises with patches which will aggravate the problem of defaults in the european institutions in the medium term. the actual payment of millions of euros is still being played with without proposing a new budgetary framework capable of solving the problem. that is why i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. — i support all the measures taken in order to make a realistic budget and to apply all the flexibility instruments needed in order to come up with a long term solution in this respect. i welcome all transparency measures, such as a report back to the parliament regularly on the expected evolution by the commission.
mr president, i shall speak on the mediterranean issue as many times as necessary until we can have a satisfactory situation. the situation in the mediterranean is a matter of concern to us; 3 224 people have drowned in the mediterranean while trying to reach european soil, according to a recent report by the international organisation for migration. this tragedy is only one aspect of the complex phenomenon of immigration into our countries, which we in this institution must now tackle: analysing its causes and effects from a prudent and sensible standpoint, promoting legal migration flows, development aid in the countries of origin and an international policy to avoid humanitarian crises, the consequence of violence caused by totalitarianism, extreme greed, failed states and poverty. and of course we must constantly advocate that the management of immigration in the european union and at the borders is done with strict respect for the human rights and dignity of immigrants. think globally but act locally, your honours. it is inevitable that we will also have to deal with the local reality of immigration in the border areas of the european union. i believe that a comprehensive approach to immigration is essential.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it points to the problem of reducing member states' contributions following the decision of the united kingdom to maintain its method of calculating gdp. this report shows the reduction in both payments and credit that certain european institutions will have to face as a result of this irresponsible decision. the proposal ensures that the necessary payments are made, while at the same time criticising the consequences of the reduction in the european union's own resources. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour because this draft amending budget will reduce the need for additional own resources for the union budget by eur 2 433 million, which, together with amending budgets nos 3, 8 and 6, will offset the payment needs requested in draft amending budget no 3, as set out in the conditions of 8 december 2014.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which is part of the overall agreement to approve the amending budget for 2014 and the budget for 2015. this chapter is intended in particular to revise the estimates of traditional own resources (customs duties and sugar levies) and to revise the estimates of other revenue from a set of fines which have become definitive and can therefore be entered in the budget. it is therefore part of the overall agreement which will allow the payment of outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4,7 billion has been agreed for the period 2014-2015. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. the agreed eur 4.7 billion will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. for 2015, eur 145 321.5 million has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214.040 563 million for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it points to the problem of reducing member states' contributions following the decision of the united kingdom to maintain its method of calculating gdp. this report shows the reduction in both payments and credit that certain european institutions will have to face as a result of this irresponsible decision. the proposal ensures that the necessary payments are made, while at the same time criticising the consequences of the reduction in the european union's own resources. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the amending budget no. 4 because it believes that it gives a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidary agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the amending budget no. 4 because it believes that it gives a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidary agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it points to the problem of reducing member states' contributions following the decision of the united kingdom to maintain its method of calculating gdp. this report shows the reduction in both payments and credit that certain european institutions will have to face as a result of this irresponsible decision. the proposal ensures that the necessary payments are made, while at the same time criticising the consequences of the reduction in the european union's own resources. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the adoption of this proposal for a resolution on draft amending budget no 4/2014 will reduce the need for additional own resources for the union budget by eur 2 433 million and will therefore serve, together with the actions to reduce the gni contribution of member states to the union budget resulting from rdps no 3/2014, no 8/2014 and no 6/2014, to fully offset the additional payment needs requested in rdp no 3/2014, as agreed in the joint conclusions of 8 december 2014. it is for these reasons that i have voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, an agreement has been reached to pay outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion for the period 2014-2015 has been agreed. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. over the course of this year, an unprecedented level of defaults has accumulated. the agreed eur 4.8 billion will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. for 2015, eur 145 321,5 million has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214,040 563 million for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the amending budget no. 4 because it believes that it gives a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidary agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the amending budget no. 4 because it believes that it gives a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidary agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it points to the problem of the reduction in the contributions of the member states following the decision of the united kingdom to maintain its method of calculating gdp. this report shows the reduction in both payments and credit that certain european institutions will have to face as a result of this irresponsible decision. the proposal ensures that the necessary payments are made, while at the same time criticising the consequences of the reduction in the european union's own resources. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), ice storms in slovenia, and the same ice storms followed by floods in croatia in late january - early february 2014, on the basis of paragraph 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. i am in favour of this, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the eu has a solidarity fund and a regulation with provisions for its use. italy, greece, slovenia and croatia have applied for these funds for floods, earthquakes, ice storms and storms followed by floods respectively and comply with the provisions of the regulation. i have therefore voted in favour of this so that the funds they receive can help them to solve the problems they have suffered.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in kefalonia (greece) which caused numerous victims and left 3 000 people homeless, ice storms in slovenia, and the same ice storms followed by floods in croatia in late january - early february 2014. the decision will allow the affected areas to benefit from a combined aid of around €47 million to help alleviate the consequences of these disasters.
in writing. the report proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (kefalonia), ice storms in slovenia and ice storms followed by floods in croatia in late january - early february 2014, on the basis of paragraph 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. in parallel to this proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund, the commission has presented a draft amending budget (oj no 5/2014, 8.9.2014) with a view to entering the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations of eur 46 998 528 in the 2014 budget, as provided for in paragraph 26 of the ra.
in writing. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), ice storms in slovenia, and the same ice storms followed by floods in croatia in late january - early february 2014, on the basis of paragraph 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. i am in favour of this, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in january 2014, i had the pleasure of being the rapporteur for the european parliament's report on the reform of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 establishing and regulating the eu solidarity funds. the objective of the mobilisation of these funds is to minimise the immediate and direct impact of natural disasters. the funds are used to cover part of the costs of emergency services and the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the most necessary infrastructure and services. the floods in italy and croatia, the earthquake in greece and the frost in slovenia call for effective action. in this sense, the solidarity funds not only have an effect on the recovery of those most basic infrastructures, such as roads or railways, but also have a considerable impact on the recovery and stabilisation of economic and social activity in regions affected by natural disasters. the solidarity funds are a fundamental instrument for promoting and strengthening the bonds of cooperation and solidarity between member states.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it involves the mobilisation of the necessary funds in the 2014 budget to be allocated to these different natural disasters. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters, which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the regions affected. the mobilisation of funds to deal with the consequences for the local population is fundamental to a european union project which seeks to help people, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was created to respond in solidarity to disasters such as the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, the earthquake in greece (cefalonia), the ice storms in slovenia and the ice storms themselves, followed by floods in croatia in late january - early february 2014. it is a political and moral responsibility to vote in favour of the european union acting in solidarity to help alleviate the suffering of all european citizens affected by these calamities. for the reasons stated above, i vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in kefalonia (greece) which caused many victims and left 3 000 people homeless, the ice storms in slovenia, and the same ice storms followed by floods in croatia in late january - early february 2014. the decision will allow the affected areas to benefit from a combined aid of around €47 million to help alleviate the consequences of these disasters.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. - the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece (cefalonia), ice storms in slovenia, and the same ice storms followed by floods in croatia in late january - early february 2014, on the basis of paragraph 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. i am in favour of this, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. my vote is in favour of mobilising extra funds for the benefit of states affected by natural disasters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it involves the mobilisation of the necessary funds in the 2014 budget to be allocated to these different natural disasters. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters, which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the regions affected. mobilizing funds to address the impact on the local population is fundamental to a european union project that seeks to help people. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of amending budget no 5/2014 because it was necessary to open the solidarity fund and to have the necessary resources to meet the commitment and payment appropriations for the floods in sardinia (italy) in november 2013, an earthquake in greece, ice storms in slovenia and ice storms followed by floods in croatia in late january and early february 2014.
in writing. i voted in favour as draft amending budget no 5/2014 relates to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for an amount of approximately eur 47 million to deal with the consequences of the floods in italy (sardinia) in november 2013, an earthquake in kefalonia (greece) which caused numerous victims and left 3 000 people homeless, ice storms in slovenia and the same ice storms followed by floods in croatia in late january - early february 2014.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it involves the mobilisation of the necessary funds in the 2014 budget to be allocated to these different natural disasters. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters, which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the regions affected. mobilizing funds to address the impact on the local population is fundamental to a european union project that seeks to help people. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive. however, we oppose the adoption of the 2015 budget and we criticise the agreement reached on the amending budgets negotiated in parallel.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive. however, we oppose the adoption of the 2015 budget and we criticise the agreement reached on the amending budgets negotiated in parallel.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it involves the mobilisation of the funds needed to adapt the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in the budgets for the financial year 2014. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters, which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the regions affected. mobilizing funds to address the impact on the local population is fundamental to a european union project that seeks to help people. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, an agreement has been reached to pay outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion for the period 2014-2015 has been agreed. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. over the course of this year, an unprecedented level of defaults has accumulated. the agreed eur 4.8 billion will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. for 2015, eur 145 321.5 million has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214.040 563 million for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive. however, we oppose the adoption of the 2015 budget and we criticise the agreement reached on the amending budgets negotiated in parallel.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive. however, we oppose the adoption of the 2015 budget and we criticise the agreement reached on the amending budgets negotiated in parallel.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it involves the mobilisation of the necessary funds in the 2014 budget to be allocated to these different natural disasters. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters, which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the regions affected. mobilizing funds to address the impact on the local population is fundamental to a european union project that seeks to help people. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. — natural disasters are unpredictable and the eu must give a fast response to the affected regions in order to recover as soon as possible. that is why i support this report on a draft amending budget and i stress the urgent need to release financial assistance through the eusf to the countries affected by this natural disaster.
in writing. i vote in favour of extra funds being mobilised for states affected by natural disasters.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of the draft amending budget because it does not provide a sufficient answer to the hole in the european union's budgets as a whole. this budget sanctions the united kingdom's position in the calculation of its gdp, legitimizing the reduction of its payments and aggravating both the budgetary situation and the balance of contributions between the member states. however, this budget guarantees the payment of unpaid bills by the european institutions, which is why i could not vote against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which is part of the overall agreement to approve the amending budget for 2014 and the budget for 2015. after arduous negotiations, an agreement has been reached which will allow the payment of outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.7 billion for the period 2014-2015 has been agreed. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. over the course of this year, an unprecedented level of defaults has accumulated. the 4.7 billion agreed will allow some of the accumulated bills to be met, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. it is true that the figure is not enough, but the alternative, no agreement, would have dire consequences: not having a fully operational budget for 2015, losing the possibility of paying back the overdue invoices and putting at risk the investment programme that the commission has just presented. for 2015, eur 145 321.5 million has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214.040 563 million for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of the draft amending budget because it does not provide a sufficient answer to the hole in the european union's budgets as a whole. this budget sanctions the united kingdom's position in the calculation of its gdp, legitimizing the reduction of its payments and aggravating both the budgetary situation and the balance of contributions between the member states. however, this budget guarantees the payment of unpaid bills by the european institutions, which is why i could not vote against this report.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the amending budget no. 6 because it believes that it provides a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidarist agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the amending budget no. 6 because it believes that it provides a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidarist agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of the draft amending budget because it does not provide a sufficient answer to the hole in the european union's budgets as a whole. this budget sanctions the united kingdom's position in the calculation of its gdp, legitimizing the reduction of its payments and aggravating both the budgetary situation and the balance of contributions between the member states. however, this budget guarantees the payment of unpaid bills by the european institutions, which is why i could not vote against this report.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, an agreement has been reached to pay outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion for the period 2014-2015 has been agreed. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. over the course of this year, an unprecedented level of defaults has accumulated. the agreed eur 4.8 billion will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. for 2015, eur 145 321.5 million has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214.040 563 million for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the amending budget no. 6 because it believes that it provides a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidarist agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the amending budget no. 6 because it believes that it provides a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austericidal and unsolidarist agreement that includes the 2015 budget that podemos rejects.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of the draft amending budget because it does not provide a sufficient answer to the hole in the european union's budgets as a whole. this budget sanctions the united kingdom's position in the calculation of its gdp, legitimizing the reduction of its payments and aggravating both the budgetary situation and the balance of contributions between the member states. however, this budget guarantees the payment of unpaid bills by the european institutions, which is why i could not vote against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it involves the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to deal with the emergency situation created by the recent floods in the balkan area. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the affected regions, both in eu countries and elsewhere. the mobilisation of the fund to deal with the consequences for the local population is fundamental to a european union project which seeks to help people, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and in bulgaria in june 2014. during may 2014, large areas of the republic of serbia and to a lesser extent croatia were affected by severe weather conditions that caused some of the worst flooding in recorded history, causing extensive damage to public and private infrastructure and damaging hundreds of thousands of homes. a month later, heavy rains four times more abundant than the monthly weather norm affected parts of the republic of bulgaria causing severe flooding and disturbances. in this way, eur 79.7 million will be mobilised to help alleviate the consequences of the disasters suffered in these territories.
in writing. the report proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and in bulgaria in june 2014 on the basis of paragraph 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for each of these cases and the allocation of the corresponding appropriations amounts to eur 19 501 835 for croatia and bulgaria under budget line 13 06 01 of the 2014 budget and the corresponding appropriations of eur 60 224 605 for serbia under budget line 13 06 02 (dedicated to the acceding countries), both in commitment appropriations and in payment appropriations. in parallel to this proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund, the commission has presented a draft amending budget (oj no 7/2014, 17.10.2014) with a view to entering the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations of eur 79 726 440 in the 2014 budget, as provided for in paragraph 26 of the interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it involves the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to deal with the emergency situation created by the recent floods in the balkan area. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the affected regions, both in eu countries and elsewhere. the mobilisation of the fund to address the impact on the local population is fundamental to a european union project that seeks to help people. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in may and june 2014, serbia, croatia and bulgaria experienced a period of heavy rainfall leading to major flooding and extensive property damage. in this regard, the mobilisation of the solidarity funds is essential to help cover emergency expenditure and to help rebuild and bring into operation the most needed services and infrastructure. the objective of the mobilisation of these funds is to reduce the immediate and direct impact of natural disasters, which is why a rapid and effective mobilisation of these funds is necessary. in this regard, i had the pleasure in january 2014 of being the rapporteur for the report on the reform of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 establishing and regulating the eu solidarity funds, considering that a rapid mobilisation of these funds is essential for minimising the damage caused by disasters. these funds are also a key instrument in strengthening the eu accession process, as candidate countries are entitled to receive these funds, such as serbia, which is in the process of negotiating its accession.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it involves the mobilisation of the funds needed to adapt the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in the budgets for the financial year 2014. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters, which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the regions affected. mobilizing funds to address the impact on the local population is fundamental to a european union project that seeks to help people. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. severe floods of natural origin affected serbia, croatia and bulgaria in 2014 causing extensive damage, especially to housing. that is why, after an assessment of the damage by the states and the commission, i believe that it is necessary to provide financial assistance to these countries through the eu solidarity fund (eusf). the financing package foreseen for this assistance exceeds the 500 million annual financing barrier foreseen for the eusf (2014), but this problem can be satisfactorily solved by transferring part of the stipulated financing to the 2015 budget. i think this solution is appropriate to avoid breaching the budgetary barriers and, more importantly, it provides the much needed funding to help the citizens of the countries hit by these recent floods. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and in bulgaria in june 2014. during may 2014, large areas of the republic of serbia and to a lesser extent croatia were affected by severe weather conditions that caused some of the worst flooding in recorded history, causing extensive damage to public and private infrastructure and damaging hundreds of thousands of homes. a month later, heavy rains four times more abundant than the monthly weather norm affected parts of the republic of bulgaria causing severe flooding and disturbances. in this way, eur 79.7 million will be mobilised to help alleviate the consequences of the disasters suffered in these territories.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it involves the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to deal with the emergency situation created by the recent floods in the balkan area. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the affected regions, both in eu countries and elsewhere. the mobilisation of the fund to address the impact on the local population is fundamental to a european union project that seeks to help people. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. my vote is in favour of mobilising extra funds for the benefit of states affected by natural disasters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it involves the mobilisation of the funds needed to adapt the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in the budgets for the financial year 2014. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters, which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the regions affected. mobilizing funds to address the impact on the local population is fundamental to a european union project that seeks to help people. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour as draft amending budget no 7/2014 concerns the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 79,7 million to help alleviate the consequences of the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and in bulgaria in june 2014. during may 2014, large areas of the republic of serbia and to a lesser extent croatia were affected by severe weather conditions that caused some of the worst flooding in recorded history, causing extensive damage to public and private infrastructure and damaging hundreds of thousands of homes. a month later, heavy rains four times more abundant than the monthly weather norm affected parts of the republic of bulgaria causing severe flooding and disturbances. in this way, eur 79.7 million will be mobilised to help alleviate the consequences of the disasters suffered in these territories.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it involves the mobilisation of the funds needed to adapt the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in the budgets for the financial year 2014. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters, which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the regions affected. mobilizing funds to address the impact on the local population is fundamental to a european union project that seeks to help people. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive. however, we oppose the adoption of the 2015 budget and we criticise the agreement reached on the amending budgets negotiated in parallel.
in writing. - this debate does not come as a surprise: it is a direct consequence of the pressure on the humanitarian aid budget worldwide, with a record number of simultaneous humanitarian crises threatening to become chronic. we are talking about syria, south sudan or the central african republic. in the specific case of syria, the world food programme has put a patch on it, but we don't know how many more lives will be lost by failing to secure humanitarian aid in the area. the international community's response is being insufficient when it is estimated that around four million people in syria are facing food insecurity.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive. however, we oppose the adoption of the 2015 budget and we criticise the agreement reached on the amending budgets negotiated in parallel.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it involves the mobilisation of the funds needed to adapt the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in the budgets for the financial year 2014. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters, which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the regions affected. mobilizing funds to address the impact on the local population is fundamental to a european union project that seeks to help people. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, an agreement has been reached to pay outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion for the period 2014-2015 has been agreed. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. over the course of this year, an unprecedented level of defaults has accumulated. the agreed eur 4.8 billion will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. for 2015, eur 145 321.5 million has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214.040 563 million for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive. however, we oppose the adoption of the 2015 budget and we criticise the agreement reached on the amending budgets negotiated in parallel.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive. however, we oppose the adoption of the 2015 budget and we criticise the agreement reached on the amending budgets negotiated in parallel.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it involves the mobilisation of the funds needed to adapt the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in the budgets for the financial year 2014. the european union must be able to act with the utmost speed to help the victims of such natural disasters, which have terrible consequences for the inhabitants of the regions affected. mobilizing funds to address the impact on the local population is fundamental to a european union project that seeks to help people. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. — natural disasters are unpredictable and the eu must give a fast response to the affected regions in order to recover as soon as possible. the flooding is of natural origin and therefore falls within the field of application of the solidarity fund. i agree with the commission proposal to mobilise the european solidarity fund in favour of the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and the floods in bulgaria in june 2014.
in writing. my vote is in favour of mobilising extra funds for the benefit of states affected by natural disasters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it proposes the use of resources accumulated in previous years to cover possible needs for resources in the other amending budgets. this amending budget proposes the reallocation of resources in a way that allows for an efficient use, while at the same time pointing out the important fact of the reduction of revenue from own resources and the increase in revenue through fines and interest derived from them. this report will help to make the necessary payments and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which is part of the overall agreement to approve the amending budget for 2014 and the budget for 2015. in particular, draft amending budget no 8/2014 seeks to record for the financial year 2014 the surplus of the financial year 2013, amounting to eur 1 005 million. the agreement reached will allow the payment of outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.7 billion has been agreed for the period 2014-2015. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. over the course of this year, an unprecedented level of defaults has accumulated. the 4.7 billion agreed will allow some of the accumulated bills to be met, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. for 2015, eur 145 321 500 000 has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214 040 563 for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it proposes the use of resources accumulated in previous years to cover possible needs for resources in the other amending budgets. this amending budget proposes the reallocation of resources in a way that allows for an efficient use, while at the same time pointing out the important fact of the reduction of revenue from own resources and the increase in revenue through fines and interest derived from them. this report will help to make the necessary payments and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the 8th amending budget because it believes that it provides a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austeric and unsolidarist agreement that includes the 2015 budget.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the 8th amending budget because it believes that it provides a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austeric and unsolidarist agreement that includes the 2015 budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it proposes the use of resources accumulated in previous years to cover possible needs for resources in the other amending budgets. this amending budget proposes the reallocation of resources in a way that allows for an efficient use, while at the same time pointing out the important fact of the reduction of revenue from own resources and the increase in revenue through fines and interest derived from them. this report will help to make the necessary payments and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, an agreement has been reached to pay outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion for the period 2014-2015 has been agreed. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. over the course of this year, an unprecedented level of defaults has accumulated. the agreed eur 4.8 billion will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. for 2015, eur 145 321 500 000 has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214 040 563 for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the 8th amending budget because it believes that it provides a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austeric and unsolidarist agreement that includes the 2015 budget.
in writing. - podemos has abstained from the 8th amending budget because it believes that it provides a very insufficient solution to the problem of suspended payments and that it is part of an austeric and unsolidarist agreement that includes the 2015 budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it proposes the use of the resources accumulated in previous years to cover possible needs for resources in the other amending budgets. this amending budget proposes the reallocation of resources in a way that allows for an efficient use, while at the same time pointing out the important fact of the reduction of revenue from own resources and the increase in revenue through fines and interest derived from them. this report will help to make the necessary payments and that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. in the light of the latest statistical revisions approved by the member states, it appears that some states have not paid their contributions to the union budget in full for several years, while others have overpaid, and that these deviations have been determined by the significant statistical changes reported by the member states. some member states which in the past benefited from the underestimation of their gni have expressed reluctance to pay the additional amounts due before the legal deadline expires. in view of this situation, the council asked the commission to submit a proposal to take account of this situation by changing the relevant rules and allowing the deferral and payment in instalments of the amounts due. the new proposal introduces greater discretion for member states as regards the timing of their additional contributions to the union budget, resulting from the adjustments to gni. it is easy to see that this will create further difficulties for future eu budgets, which is why i could not vote in favour and abstained.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, an agreement has been reached to pay outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.7 billion for the period 2014-2015 has been agreed. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. over the course of this year, an unprecedented level of defaults has accumulated. the agreed eur 4.7 billion will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. it is true that the figure is not enough, but the alternative, no agreement, would have dire consequences: not having a fully operational budget for 2015, losing the possibility of paying back the overdue invoices and putting at risk the investment programme that the commission has just presented. for 2015, eur 145 321 500 000 has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214 040 563 for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. in the light of the latest statistical revisions approved by the member states, it appears that some states have not paid their contributions to the union budget in full for several years, while others have overpaid, and that these deviations have been determined by the significant statistical changes reported by the member states. some member states which in the past benefited from the underestimation of their gni have expressed reluctance to pay the additional amounts due before the legal deadline expires. in view of this situation, the council asked the commission to submit a proposal to take account of this situation by changing the relevant rules and allowing the deferral and payment in instalments of the amounts due. the new proposal introduces greater discretion for member states as regards the timing of their additional contributions to the union budget, resulting from the adjustments to gni. it is easy to see that this will create further difficulties for future eu budgets, which is why i could not vote in favour and abstained.
in writing. - podemos abstained because the report criticises the council in a very lukewarm way. for podemos, the precedent set by the council during the 2015 budget negotiation should have been the subject of an exemplary condemnation by the european parliament.
in writing. - podemos abstained because the report criticises the council in a very lukewarm way. for podemos, the precedent set by the council during the 2015 budget negotiation should have been the subject of an exemplary condemnation by the european parliament.
in writing. in the light of the latest statistical revisions approved by the member states, it appears that some states have not paid their contributions to the union budget in full for several years, while others have overpaid, and that these deviations have been determined by the significant statistical changes reported by the member states. some member states which in the past benefited from the underestimation of their gni have expressed reluctance to pay the additional amounts due before the legal deadline expires. in view of this situation, the council asked the commission to submit a proposal to take account of this situation by changing the relevant rules and allowing the deferral and payment in instalments of the amounts due. the new proposal introduces greater discretion for member states as regards the timing of their additional contributions to the union budget, resulting from the adjustments to gni. it is easy to see that this will create further difficulties for future eu budgets, which is why i could not vote in favour and abstained.
in writing. in the light of the latest statistical revisions approved by the member states, it appears that some states did not pay their contributions to the union budget in full for several years, while others overpaid. these deviations have been determined by the significant statistical changes reported by the member states. the commission has therefore started a wider negotiation process with different states, with the aim of maintaining equal treatment between member states in terms of contributions to the european budget. i support the commission's proposal as amended, because it keeps the european parliament informed at all times of the process, which i consider to be essential for the transparency and the proper functioning of the institutions. for these reasons i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, an agreement has been reached to pay outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion for the period 2014-2015 has been agreed. in addition, the commission, the council and parliament have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. over the course of this year, an unprecedented level of defaults has accumulated. the agreed eur 4.8 billion will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills, thus helping to alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos. for 2015, eur 145 321 500 000 has been agreed for commitment appropriations and eur 141 214 040 563 for payment appropriations. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - podemos abstained because the report criticises the council in a very lukewarm way. for podemos, the precedent set by the council during the 2015 budget negotiation should have been the subject of an exemplary condemnation by the european parliament.
in writing. - podemos abstained because the report criticises the council in a very lukewarm way. for podemos, the precedent set by the council during the 2015 budget negotiation should have been the subject of an exemplary condemnation by the european parliament.
in writing. - in the light of the latest statistical revisions approved by the member states, it appears that some states have not paid their contributions to the union budget in full for several years, while others have overpaid, and that these deviations have been determined by the significant statistical changes reported by the member states. some member states which in the past benefited from the underestimation of their gni have expressed reluctance to pay the additional amounts due before the legal deadline expires. in view of this situation, the council asked the commission to submit a proposal to take account of this situation by changing the relevant rules and allowing the deferral and payment in instalments of the amounts due. the new proposal introduces greater discretion for member states as regards the timing of their additional contributions to the union budget, resulting from the adjustments to gni. it is easy to see that this will create further difficulties for future eu budgets, which is why i could not vote in favour and abstained.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to provide european solidarity to the disaster-stricken regions of europe. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and acceding countries in the event of a major natural disaster provided that the total direct damage exceeds eur 3 000 million in 2011 prices or 0,6% of the country's gross national income, whichever is the lower. article 10 of the mff regulation for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 500 000 000. this decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to any specific case of natural disaster. instead, it aims to enter eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations in the 2015 budget, corresponding to advances that will have to be paid more quickly and efficiently in the event of a natural disaster next year. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision of the parliament and the council which will allow a total of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to be entered in the 2015 budget for the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to provide european solidarity to the disaster-stricken regions of europe. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and acceding countries in the event of a major natural disaster provided that the total direct damage exceeds eur 3 000 million in 2011 prices or 0,6% of the country's gross national income, whichever is the lower. article 10 of the mff regulation for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 500 000 000. this decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to any specific case of natural disaster. instead, it aims to enter eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations in the 2015 budget, corresponding to advances that will have to be paid more quickly and efficiently in the event of a natural disaster next year. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. in 2002, as a result of severe floods in central europe, the eu decided to create the solidarity funds to respond to major natural disasters, the basis of which was laid down in regulation (ec) no 2012/2002. the priority for the mobilisation of the solidarity funds is to minimise the immediate and direct impact of natural disasters. in this regard, in january 2014 i had the pleasure of being the rapporteur for the european parliament's report on the reform of the regulation establishing these funds with the aim of ensuring a rapid and effective mobilisation. the reform entered into force on 28 june 2014, ensuring greater efficiency and speed in the mobilisation of funds and simplification of the criteria for applying for aid. achieving the objectives of speed and efficiency is crucial to minimize the impact of natural disasters. the speed with which these funds can be made available to cover part of the rescue effort and to start the reconstruction and recovery of strategic infrastructure and services will be a major factor in the economic and social recovery of regions affected by natural disasters.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to provide european solidarity to the disaster-stricken regions of europe. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and acceding countries in the event of a major natural disaster provided that the total direct damage exceeds eur 3 000 million in 2011 prices or 0,6% of the country's gross national income, whichever is the lower. article 10 of the mff regulation for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 500 000 000. this decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to any specific case of natural disaster. instead, it aims to enter eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations in the 2015 budget, corresponding to advances that will have to be paid more quickly and efficiently in the event of a natural disaster next year. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity through financial support to the regions affected by these disasters in europe. the eusf currently has a maximum budget of eur 500 million per year, but it has been noted that in many cases it would be desirable to create a mechanism to deal with cases of extreme urgency. to this end, 10% of the eusf's total funding - a €50 million fund - is set aside for early financing of disaster-affected areas, allowing for faster and more efficient response without waiting for the bureaucratic red tape to be completed. this is not just another form of eu financial support, but a clear political message of solidarity, while providing real assistance to the citizens concerned.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision of the parliament and the council which will allow a total of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to be entered in the 2015 budget for the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. - we vote in favour of all redistributive transfers which end up in aid to regions or countries affected by natural disasters. we believe in particular that the european budget should be redistributive.
in writing. - the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to provide european solidarity to the disaster-stricken regions of europe. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and acceding countries in the event of a major natural disaster provided that the total direct damage exceeds eur 3 000 million in 2011 prices or 0,6% of the country's gross national income, whichever is the lower. article 10 of the mff regulation for the period 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 500 000 000. this decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to any specific case of natural disaster. instead, it aims to enter eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations in the 2015 budget, corresponding to advances that will have to be paid more quickly and efficiently in the event of a natural disaster next year. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. — natural disasters are unpredictable and eu must give a fast response to the affected regions by the european union solidarity fund. that is why i support this report, so that the general budget of the european union is ready for the financial year 2015.
in writing. my vote is in favour of mobilising extra funds for the benefit of states affected by natural disasters.
in writing. the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument above the mff ceilings to supplement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 by eur 79,8 million in commitment appropriations in respect of the additional allocation from the structural funds to cyprus, for a total amount of eur 100 million for the financial year 2015. i voted in favour of this report to mobilise the flexibility instrument and to amend the commission's proposal to finance the additional allocation to the cypriot structural funds programmes under subheading 1b up to an amount of eur 83.26 million.
in writing. i voted in favour, as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument will allow the supplementing of the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 by eur 79,8 million in commitment appropriations in relation to the additional allocation from the structural funds for cyprus, for a total amount of eur 100 million for the financial year 2015.
in writing. the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument above the mff ceilings to supplement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 by eur 79,8 million in commitment appropriations in respect of the additional allocation from the structural funds to cyprus, for a total amount of eur 100 million for the financial year 2015. i voted in favour of this report to mobilise the flexibility instrument and to amend the commission's proposal to finance the additional allocation to the cypriot structural funds programmes under subheading 1b up to an amount of eur 83.26 million.
in writing. - we voted in favour because cyprus needed an extension of its structural funds as was granted to other countries in dire economic circumstances and under troika surveillance programmes. our vote in favour is not to be understood as an implicit or explicit support for the troika's monitoring programmes. however, this mobilisation of the flexibility instrument corresponds to an increase in the structural funds which is very much needed in the current economic situation in cyprus.
in writing. - we voted in favour because cyprus needed an extension of its structural funds as was granted to other countries in dire economic circumstances and under troika surveillance programmes. our vote in favour is not to be understood as an implicit or explicit support for the troika's monitoring programmes. however, this mobilisation of the flexibility instrument corresponds to an increase in the structural funds which is very much needed in the current economic situation in cyprus.
in writing. the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument above the mff ceilings to supplement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 by eur 79,8 million in commitment appropriations in respect of the additional allocation from the structural funds to cyprus, for a total amount of eur 100 million for the financial year 2015. i voted in favour of this report to mobilise the flexibility instrument and to amend the commission's proposal to finance the additional allocation to the cypriot structural funds programmes under subheading 1b up to an amount of eur 83.26 million.
in writing. the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument, above the mff ceilings, to complement funding in the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2015. eur 79,8 million in commitment appropriations is provided as a supplementary allocation to the structural funds in cyprus, for a total amount of eur 100 million for 2015. the ep, having examined all the possibilities for reallocating commitment appropriations under subheading 1b, concludes that it seems necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument. despite the reinforcements in commitment appropriations in a limited number of budget lines, the 2015 ceiling does not allow for adequate funding of the eu's political priorities. the commission therefore considers it necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument and to amend the commission proposal to finance the additional allocation for cypriot structural funds programmes up to an amount of eur 83.26 million. the ep also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt and implement the budget, and to make the necessary changes to the budget. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument will allow the supplementing of the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 by eur 79.8 million in commitment appropriations in relation to the additional allocation from the structural funds to cyprus, for a total amount of eur 100 million for the financial year 2015.
in writing. - we voted in favour because cyprus needed an extension of its structural funds as was granted to other countries in dire economic circumstances and under troika surveillance programmes. our vote in favour is not to be understood as an implicit or explicit support for the troika's monitoring programmes. however, this mobilisation of the flexibility instrument corresponds to an increase in the structural funds which is very much needed in the current economic situation in cyprus.
in writing. - we voted in favour because cyprus needed an extension of its structural funds as was granted to other countries in dire economic circumstances and under troika surveillance programmes. our vote in favour is not to be understood as an implicit or explicit support for the troika's monitoring programmes. however, this mobilisation of the flexibility instrument corresponds to an increase in the structural funds which is very much needed in the current economic situation in cyprus.
in writing. - the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument above the mff ceilings to supplement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 by eur 79,8 million in commitment appropriations in respect of the additional allocation from the structural funds to cyprus, for a total amount of eur 100 million for the financial year 2015. i voted in favour of this report to mobilise the flexibility instrument and to amend the commission's proposal to finance the additional allocation to the cypriot structural funds programmes under subheading 1b up to an amount of eur 83.26 million.
in writing. — flexibility allows adapting european tools and budgets to the real needs of institutions, regions and countries. after examination of all possibilities for reallocating commitment appropriations it appears necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument for commitment appropriations; i therefore agree with the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument and amendment of the commission proposal to finance the additional allocation for the cypriot structural funds programmes.
in writing. although i consider the conditions for the bailout of cyprus to be totally unfair, my vote in favour on this point is based on the need to mobilise the financial resources needed for cyprus.
in writing. i voted against the new eu budget for 2015 because it is a budget along the same lines as the previous ones. it continues to promote the neoliberal economic policies which have brought us into the crisis, it insists on memoranda and reform programmes for the member states, it insists on privatisation and liberalisation of public services, on austerity, on cuts and the deregulation of industrial relations. the amount of this budget has also been cut, at a time when public investment is most needed to create jobs and to guarantee public services for all european citizens.
in writing. after arduous negotiations, and although it is clear that the agreement could be more ambitious, parliament has managed to reverse the council's cuts and increase the budget in certain key areas. for example, an increase of eur 45 million has been achieved for heading 1a, namely for the cosme programme and for horizon 2020, and eur 16 million for erasmus+, as well as an additional eur 32 million for heading 4 (unwra and humanitarian aid). in total, commitment appropriations of eur 145 321 500 000 and payment appropriations of eur 141 214 040 563 have been agreed for 2015. in addition, an agreement has been reached to reduce the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i voted against the new eu budget for 2015 because it is a budget along the same lines as the previous ones. it continues to promote the neoliberal economic policies which have brought us into the crisis, it insists on memoranda and reform programmes for the member states, it insists on privatisation and liberalisation of public services, on austerity, on cuts and the deregulation of industrial relations. the amount of this budget has also been cut, at a time when public investment is most needed to create jobs and to guarantee public services for all european citizens.
in writing. i have supported the agreement reached as it will allow the policy of unfunded cheques promoted by the council since 2012 to be temporarily reversed, at least for the time being. we will be able to pay the outstanding bills on such important issues as humanitarian aid, which had a gap of 160 million euros. but with our vote we also achieved that the level of payments and commitments for 2015 will be matched, which will stop the spiral of unpaid bills, a matter that has also been reinforced by an agreement on a payment plan that will allow the eu to get out of the situation it is in at the moment, with over 23 billion in unpaid bills. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. the agreement reached will allow the payment of outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion has been agreed for the period 2014-2015. although it is still far from the initial figures, this amount will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills and thus alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos that are currently waiting to be paid. as important as the figures for the 2014 payments and the 2015 budget has been an agreement between parliament, council and commission on a payment plan to get the eu out of the situation it is in now with over €23 billion in unpaid bills. for the 2015 budget, we have managed to reverse all council cuts as well as increases in categories 1a, which reflect the priority of contributing to improving access to funding through the eu budget, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular for the cosme programme, as well as for the horizon 2020 and erasmus+ programmes, and the amount for humanitarian aid in category 4.
in writing. i voted against the new eu budget for 2015 because it is a budget along the same lines as the previous ones. it continues to promote the neoliberal economic policies which have brought us into the crisis, it insists on memoranda and reform programmes for the member states, it insists on privatisation and liberalisation of public services, on austerity, on cuts and the deregulation of industrial relations. the amount of this budget has also been cut, at a time when public investment is most needed to create jobs and to guarantee public services for all european citizens.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, parliament has managed to reverse the council's cuts and increase the budget in certain key areas. for example, an increase of eur 45 million has been achieved for heading 1a, namely for the cosme programme and for horizon 2020, and eur 16 million for erasmus+, as well as an additional eur 32 million for heading 4 (unwra and humanitarian aid). in total, commitment appropriations of eur 145 321 500 000 and payment appropriations of eur 141 214 040 563 have been agreed for 2015. in addition, an agreement has been reached to reduce the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted against the new eu budget for 2015 because it is a budget along the same lines as the previous ones. it continues to promote the neoliberal economic policies which have brought us into the crisis, it insists on memoranda and reform programmes for the member states, it insists on privatisation and liberalisation of public services, on austerity, on cuts and the deregulation of industrial relations. in addition, the amount of this budget has been cut, at a time when public investment is most needed to create jobs and to guarantee public services for all european citizens.
in writing. the agreement reached will allow the payment of outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion has been agreed for the period 2014-2015. although it is still far from the initial figures, this amount will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills and thus alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos that are currently waiting to be paid. as important as the figures for the 2014 payments and the 2015 budget has been an agreement between parliament, council and commission on a payment plan to get the eu out of the situation it is in now with over €23 billion in unpaid bills. for the 2015 budget, we have managed to reverse all council cuts as well as increases in categories 1a, which reflect the priority of contributing to improving access to funding through the eu budget, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular for the cosme programme, as well as for the horizon 2020 and erasmus+ programmes, and the amount for humanitarian aid in category 4.
in writing. i voted against the new eu budget for 2015 because it is a budget along the same lines as the previous ones. it continues to promote the neoliberal economic policies which have brought us into the crisis, it insists on memoranda and reform programmes for the member states, it insists on privatisation and liberalisation of public services, on austerity, on cuts and the deregulation of industrial relations. the amount of this budget has also been cut, at a time when public investment is most needed to create jobs and to guarantee public services for all european citizens.
in writing. the agreement reached will allow the payment of outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion has been agreed for the period 2014-2015. although it is still far from the initial figures, this amount will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills and thus alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos that are currently waiting to be paid. as important as the figures for the 2014 payments and the 2015 budget has been an agreement between parliament, council and commission on a payment plan to get the eu out of the situation it is in now with over €23 billion in unpaid bills. for the 2015 budget, we have managed to reverse all council cuts as well as increases in categories 1a, which reflect the priority of contributing to improving access to funding through the eu budget, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular for the cosme programme, as well as for the horizon 2020 and erasmus+ programmes, and the amount for humanitarian aid in category 4.
in writing. after arduous negotiations, and although it is clear that the agreement could be more ambitious, parliament has managed to reverse the council's cuts and increase the budget in certain key areas. for example, an increase of eur 45 million has been achieved for heading 1a, namely for the cosme programme and for horizon 2020, and eur 16 million for erasmus+, as well as an additional eur 32 million for heading 4 (unwra and humanitarian aid). in total, commitment appropriations of eur 145 321 500 000 and payment appropriations of eur 141 214 040 563 have been agreed for 2015. in addition, an agreement has been reached to reduce the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the agreement reached will allow the payment of outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion has been agreed for the period 2014-2015. for the 2015 budget, the council and parliament have agreed a total of eur 145 321 500 000 in commitments and eur 141 214 040 563 in payments. in addition, the three institutions have agreed on a payment plan aimed at reducing the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new budget for 2015 for the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2015.
in writing. i voted against the new eu budget for 2015 because it is a budget along the same lines as the previous ones. it continues to promote the neoliberal economic policies which have brought us into the crisis, it insists on memoranda and reform programmes for the member states, it insists on privatisation and liberalisation of public services, on austerity, on cuts and the deregulation of industrial relations. the amount of this budget has also been cut, at a time when public investment is most needed to create jobs and to guarantee public services for all european citizens.
in writing. i would like to stress that despite the difficulties that member states have shown throughout the budgetary negotiations and their lack of commitment to the community budget, thanks in large part to the excellent work of the rapporteur, mrs eider gardiazabal, certain achievements have been made. in particular, all council cuts have been reversed and increases have been achieved in subheading 1a, to reflect the priority of contributing to improving access to finance through the eu budget, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), and in heading 4. the commission also agreed to increase the budget for subheading 1a by 45 million, namely for the cosme programme and horizon 2020 (cei and marie curie), by 16 million for erasmus+ and by 32 million for heading 4 (oops and humanitarian aid).
in writing. the agreement reached will allow the payment of outstanding invoices, for which the amount of eur 4.8 billion has been agreed for the period 2014-2015. although it is still far from the initial figures, this amount will make it possible to meet part of the accumulated bills and thus alleviate the situation of many smes, universities, local authorities and ngos that are currently waiting to be paid. as important as the figures for the 2014 payments and the 2015 budget has been an agreement between parliament, council and commission on a payment plan to get the eu out of the situation it is in now with over €23 billion in unpaid bills. for the 2015 budget, we have managed to reverse all council cuts as well as increases in categories 1a, which reflect the priority of contributing to improving access to funding through the eu budget, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular for the cosme programme, as well as for the horizon 2020 and erasmus+ programmes, and the amount for humanitarian aid in category 4.
in writing. - we voted against the union's 2015 budget because it is a terrible agreement that continues to shrink the budget and still fails to solve the problem of suspended payments. this bad agreement is a missed opportunity to achieve a minimum of redistribution within the european union. the absence of negotiation and the imposition of the council's position make the 2015 budget an anaemic, anti-social and anti-european budget. a budget which will continue to destroy the european economy and widen the gap between the people of the north and the people of the south.
in writing. - we voted against the union's 2015 budget because it is a terrible agreement that continues to shrink the budget and still fails to solve the problem of suspended payments. this bad agreement is a missed opportunity to achieve a minimum of redistribution within the european union. the absence of negotiation and the imposition of the council's position make the 2015 budget an anaemic, anti-social and anti-european budget. a budget which will continue to destroy the european economy and widen the gap between the people of the north and the people of the south.
in writing. i voted against the new eu budget for 2015 because it is a budget along the same lines as the previous ones. it continues to promote the neoliberal economic policies which have brought us into the crisis, it insists on memoranda and reform programmes for the member states, it insists on privatisation and liberalisation of public services, on austerity, on cuts and the deregulation of industrial relations. the amount of this budget has also been cut, at a time when public investment is most needed to create jobs and to guarantee public services for all european citizens.
in writing. following difficult negotiations, following the tripartite dialogue of 8 december 2014, the council position on the new draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 is adopted. we welcome the progress achieved in the negotiations which is in line with parliament's political priorities and reaffirm the utmost importance of the work of the high level group on own resources chaired by mr mario monti. it welcomed the increase of eur 244,2 million in the overall level of commitment appropriations compared to the original council position of 2 september 2014 and that the agreed overall level of payment appropriations for 2015 represents an increase of 1,6% compared to the 2014 budget. i also think that the implementation of the first phase of the cooperation agreement between parliament and the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions is very satisfactory, as it is a good example of the search for synergies between the institutions. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, parliament has managed to reverse the council's cuts and increase the budget in certain key areas. for example, an increase of eur 45 million has been achieved for heading 1a, namely for the cosme programme and for horizon 2020, and eur 16 million for erasmus+, as well as an additional eur 32 million for heading 4 (unwra and humanitarian aid). in total, commitment appropriations of eur 145 321 500 000 and payment appropriations of eur 141 214 040 563 have been agreed for 2015. in addition, an agreement has been reached to reduce the level of unpaid invoices within the current multiannual framework. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - we voted against the union's 2015 budget because it is a terrible agreement that continues to shrink the budget and still fails to solve the problem of suspended payments. this bad agreement is a missed opportunity to achieve a minimum of redistribution within the european union. the absence of negotiation and the imposition of the council's position make the 2015 budget an anaemic, anti-social and anti-european budget. a budget which will continue to destroy the european economy and widen the gap between the people of the north and the people of the south.
in writing. - we voted against the union's 2015 budget because it is a terrible agreement that continues to shrink the budget and still fails to solve the problem of suspended payments. this bad agreement is a missed opportunity to achieve a minimum of redistribution within the european union. the absence of negotiation and the imposition of the council's position make the 2015 budget an anaemic, anti-social and anti-european budget. a budget which will continue to destroy the european economy and widen the gap between the people of the north and the people of the south.
in writing. - i voted against the new eu budget for 2015 because it is a budget along the same lines as the previous ones. it continues to promote the neoliberal economic policies which have brought us into the crisis, it insists on memoranda and reform programmes for the member states, it insists on privatisation and liberalisation of public services, on austerity, on cuts and the deregulation of industrial relations. the amount of this budget has also been cut, at a time when public investment is most needed to create jobs and to guarantee public services for all european citizens.
in writing. the eu budget this year does not respond to the social and economic needs of the eu, which is why i am voting against it.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 aims at the completion of an internal market in road transport with fair conditions of competition, which requires the uniform application of common rules for access to the occupation of road haulage operator or road passenger transport operator. the commission's measure should have included a comprehensive list of both the harmonised infringements and the harmonised level of seriousness which may lead to the loss of the transporter's good repute. that is not the case, and that is why this report is opposed to the adoption of the commission's regulation, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the draft regulation, which parliament decided to reject, was intended to harmonise infringements which endanger road safety and can lead to the loss of the honour of road hauliers in the eu. i abstained on this motion for a resolution because, although the draft regulation could have been improved in certain social aspects, it represents a first step in the harmonization of sanctions and gives greater legal certainty to international carriers. it would put an end to the abuses of certain traffic authorities against foreign drivers, by imposing the same criteria for sanctioning infringements of such importance for road safety and social legislation as respect for drivers' working and rest times, the validity of the authorization and driving licence, and the fight against fraud in connection with driving licences or control mechanisms such as the tachograph or the speed limiter. we hope that the commission will be able to present a new draft regulation which will provide greater legal certainty and put an end to the excessive zeal of certain states against carriers from the periphery.
in writing. to practise as a road haulage operator in the eu, you must show that you have a fixed establishment in a member state, that you have the financial and professional capacity to practise the profession and that you can prove that you are a reputable haulage operator. the draft implementing regulation harmonises the infringements which can lead to the loss of the good name of road hauliers in the eu, in particular those which endanger road safety. until now, states were responsible for assessing the seriousness of infringements committed by carriers, with a wide disparity in penalties between them for the same infringement, which created legal uncertainty for international carriers. i believe that this draft regulation should have been adopted in order to make progress in the harmonization of penalties and, therefore, in the legal certainty of carriers, which is why i abstained in voting on this resolution, which prevents progress along both lines.
in writing. to practise as a road haulage operator in the eu, four essential elements must be demonstrated: a fixed establishment in the union, the financial and professional capacity to practise the profession and the ability to demonstrate good repute. this implementing regulation harmonises the offences which may lead to the loss of good repute. until now, the states were responsible for assessing the seriousness of infringements, with different penalties for the same infringement. this has created legal uncertainty for international carriers and also abuses by the traffic authorities with certain foreign carriers, with france even providing for prison sentences for the driver to take the weekly rest in the cabin. the regulation harmonises only those penalties which pose a high risk to road safety, typically overworking, driving without a valid licence, overweight, fraud in controls such as the tachograph, etc. but it does not go into detail on other types of infringement, such as the rules on international cabotage.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 aims at the completion of an internal market in road transport with fair conditions of competition, which requires the uniform application of common rules for access to the occupation of road haulage operator or road passenger transport operator. the commission's measure should have included a comprehensive list of both the harmonised infringements and the harmonised level of seriousness which may lead to the loss of the transporter's good repute. that is not the case, and that is why this report is opposed to the adoption of the commission's regulation, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - we vote in favour of this motion for a resolution which opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation on the classification of serious infringements of the union which may lead to the loss of the honour of the carrier. the proposal calls on the commission to withdraw the draft and to submit a new list of infringements, as it does not meet the objective of creating fair conditions of competition, does not improve the service and harms the already deteriorated working conditions of hauliers, by not explicitly referring to illegal cabotage, an abusive practice that significantly affects the living and working conditions of the haulier and therefore carries a high potential to create a risk of death or serious injury.
in writing. - we vote in favour of this motion for a resolution which opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation on the classification of serious infringements of the union which may lead to the loss of the honour of the carrier. the proposal calls on the commission to withdraw the draft and to submit a new list of infringements, as it does not meet the objective of creating fair conditions of competition, does not improve the service and harms the already deteriorated working conditions of hauliers, by not explicitly referring to illegal cabotage, an abusive practice that significantly affects the living and working conditions of the haulier and therefore carries a high potential to create a risk of death or serious injury.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 aims at the completion of an internal market in road transport with fair conditions of competition, which requires the uniform application of common rules for access to the occupation of road haulage operator or road passenger transport operator. the commission's measure should have included a comprehensive list of both the harmonised infringements and the harmonised level of seriousness which may lead to the loss of the transporter's good repute. that is not the case, and that is why this report is opposed to the adoption of the commission's regulation, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. to practise as a road haulage operator in the eu, you must show that you have a fixed establishment in a member state, that you have the financial and professional capacity to practise the profession and that you can prove that you are a reputable haulage operator. the draft implementing regulation harmonises the infringements which can lead to the loss of the good name of road hauliers in the eu, in particular those which endanger road safety. until now, states were responsible for assessing the seriousness of infringements committed by carriers, with a wide disparity in penalties between them for the same infringement, which created legal uncertainty for international carriers. i believe that this draft regulation should have been adopted in order to make progress in the harmonization of penalties and, therefore, in the legal certainty of carriers, which is why i abstained in voting on this resolution, which prevents progress along both lines.
in writing. - we vote in favour of this motion for a resolution which opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation on the classification of serious infringements of the union which may lead to the loss of the honour of the carrier. the proposal calls on the commission to withdraw the draft and to submit a new list of infringements, as it does not meet the objective of creating fair conditions of competition, does not improve the service and harms the already deteriorated working conditions of hauliers, by not explicitly referring to illegal cabotage, an abusive practice that significantly affects the living and working conditions of the haulier and therefore carries a high potential to create a risk of death or serious injury.
in writing. - we vote in favour of this motion for a resolution which opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation on the classification of serious infringements of the union which may lead to the loss of the honour of the carrier. the proposal calls on the commission to withdraw the draft and to submit a new list of infringements, as it does not meet the objective of creating fair conditions of competition, does not improve the service and harms the already deteriorated working conditions of hauliers, by not explicitly referring to illegal cabotage, an abusive practice that significantly affects the living and working conditions of the haulier and therefore carries a high potential to create a risk of death or serious injury.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 aims at the completion of an internal market in road transport with fair conditions of competition, which requires the uniform application of common rules for access to the occupation of road haulage operator or road passenger transport operator. the commission's measure should have included a comprehensive list of both the harmonised infringements and the harmonised level of seriousness which may lead to the loss of the transporter's good repute. that is not the case, and that is why this report is opposed to the adoption of the commission's regulation, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it opposes the adoption of the draft council directive, as i consider that this draft directive is not compatible with the objective and content of directive 98/70/eu. i think the commission should withdraw its draft council directive and present a new one to the committee based on the obligation to declare the default mean values of greenhouse gas emission intensity broken down by type of raw material in relation to petrol and diesel, while allowing suppliers to declare the actual values. since the motion for a resolution calls for exactly this, i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted against the resolution and in favour of the commission proposal because the objective of the commission proposal was to establish a methodology which is clear and effective for measuring the 6% reduction in emissions from transport fuels, as set out in article 7 of directive 98/70, and always based on the types of raw materials used in 2010. the resolution of the parliament went further and wanted to restrict a type of crude oil that can be used in the eu and this would have very negative consequences for the european industry which has made large investments to achieve the 6% co2 reduction target and which agrees to apply the proposed methodology.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling on the commission to withdraw the implementing act concerning the new calculation methods of the fuel quality directive. the calculation method proposed by the commission does not adequately address the needs for more information and traceability. it is necessary to indicate the greenhouse gas emission intensity, not for the overall product, but for each component of the fuel, so that for each gasoline, diesel, etc. to be used in the eu, its contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is known and therefore whether the product meets the requirements and objectives of the quality directive (6% less intensity by 2020) and other derivative directives on emission limits. the commission should continue to work towards finding a measurement method that will encourage the use of more sustainable fuels by the production companies and the progressive abandonment of the most environmentally harmful unconventional fuels and raw materials.
in writing. the commission's proposal is to measure the greenhouse gas emission intensity of the sum total of the fuel components so that for each petrol, diesel, etc. to be used in the eu, its contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is known and therefore whether the product meets the requirements and objectives of the quality directive (6% less intensity by 2020) and other derivative directives on emission limits. to this end, although the origin of each and every component of the product is analysed in such a way as to have access to sensitive data such as the inclusion of material from tar sands, the method proposed by the commission does not specify the quantity used in the product as a whole for each component. in other words, there is a record of the generic use but not of the quantity used. the delegation, like the group, supported the resolution tabled with objections to the commission's proposal, believing that the commission should work further on the calculation method before it could be finally adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it opposes the adoption of the draft council directive, as i consider that this draft directive is not compatible with the objective and content of directive 98/70/eu. i think the commission should withdraw its draft council directive and present a new one to the committee based on the obligation to declare the default mean values of greenhouse gas emission intensity broken down by type of raw material in relation to petrol and diesel, while allowing suppliers to declare the actual values. since the motion for a resolution calls for exactly this, i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - we voted to ban the use of tar sands and shale gas. the eu is siding with oil interests with the commission's proposal to implement article 7a of the fuel quality directive, which does not discriminate against the consumption of the dirtiest fuels, thus hindering the objective for which it was created: the reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 2020. scientific studies show that unconventional oils cause higher ghg emissions than conventional oils: 23% more for oil from tar sands and 50% more for oil from oil shale. the american oil companies, and also repsol, together with the governments of canada and the usa, were opposed to differentiation by type of oil and to the penalization of the most polluting. after eight years of delay, due to pressure from canada, the usa and the big oil companies, a regulation in their interests is finally adopted. the eu is thus putting trade agreements (cfta-fta) ahead of its already unambitious climate commitments.
in writing. - we voted to ban the use of tar sands and shale gas. the eu is siding with oil interests with the european commission's proposal to implement article 7a of the fuel quality directive, which does not discriminate against the consumption of the dirtiest fuels, thus hindering the objective for which it was created: the reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 2020. scientific studies show that unconventional oils cause higher ghg emissions than conventional oils: 23% more for oil from tar sands and 50% more for oil from oil shale. the american oil companies, and also repsol, together with the governments of canada and the usa, were opposed to differentiation by type of oil and to the penalization of the most polluting. after eight years of delay, due to pressure from canada, the usa and the big oil companies, a regulation in their interests is finally adopted. the eu is thus putting trade agreements (cfta-fta) ahead of its already unambitious climate commitments.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it opposes the adoption of the draft council directive, as i consider that this draft directive is not compatible with the objective and content of directive 98/70/eu. i think the commission should withdraw its draft council directive and present a new one to the committee based on the obligation to declare the default mean values of greenhouse gas emission intensity broken down by type of raw material in relation to petrol and diesel, while allowing suppliers to declare the actual values. since the motion for a resolution calls for exactly this, i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling on the commission to withdraw the implementing act concerning the new calculation methods of the fuel quality directive. the calculation method proposed by the commission does not adequately address the needs for more information and traceability. it is necessary to indicate the greenhouse gas emission intensity, not for the overall product, but for each component of the fuel, so that for each gasoline, diesel, etc. to be used in the eu, its contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is known and therefore whether the product meets the requirements and objectives of the quality directive (6% less intensity by 2020) and other derivative directives on emission limits. the commission should continue to work towards finding a measurement method that will encourage the use of more sustainable fuels by the production companies and the progressive abandonment of the most environmentally harmful unconventional fuels and raw materials.
in writing. - we voted to ban the use of tar sands and shale gas. the eu is siding with oil interests with the european commission's proposal to implement article 7a of the fuel quality directive, which does not discriminate against the consumption of the dirtiest fuels, thus hindering the objective for which it was created: the reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 2020. scientific studies show that unconventional oils cause higher ghg emissions than conventional oils: 23% more for oil from tar sands and 50% more for oil from oil shale. the american oil companies, and also repsol, together with the governments of canada and the usa, were opposed to differentiation by type of oil and to the penalization of the most polluting. after eight years of delay, due to pressure from canada, the usa and the big oil companies, a regulation in their interests is finally adopted. the eu is thus putting trade agreements (cfta-fta) ahead of its already unambitious climate commitments.
in writing. - we voted to ban the use of tar sands and shale gas. the eu is siding with oil interests with the commission's proposal to implement article 7a of the fuel quality directive, which does not discriminate against the consumption of the dirtiest fuels, thus hindering the objective for which it was created: the reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 2020. scientific studies show that unconventional oils cause higher ghg emissions than conventional oils: 23% more for oil from tar sands and 50% more for oil from oil shale. the american oil companies, and also repsol, together with the governments of canada and the usa, were opposed to differentiation by type of oil and to the penalization of the most polluting. after eight years of delay, due to pressure from canada, the usa and the big oil companies, a regulation in their interests is finally adopted. the eu is thus putting trade agreements (cfta-fta) ahead of its already unambitious climate commitments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it opposes the adoption of the draft council directive, as i consider that this draft directive is not compatible with the objective and content of directive 98/70/eu. i think the commission should withdraw its draft council directive and present a new one to the committee based on the obligation to declare the default mean values of greenhouse gas emission intensity broken down by type of raw material in relation to petrol and diesel, while allowing suppliers to declare the actual values. since the motion for a resolution calls for exactly this, i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. my vote in favour of this motion for a resolution is justified because i believe that the methodology proposed by the commission for the draft directive on the quality of fuels needs to be criticised, as it discourages the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the fossil fuel production chain.
in writing. the opinion of stecf scientists supports the idea of reducing the reference size of cod in the baltic sea. given that the size of this species has been reduced and that it is therefore mature at 35 centimetres, i voted against the motion for a resolution by the ecr group to support the decision of the stecf and the baltic sea advisory council.
in writing. the commission has presented a delegated act on the baltic discard plan which provides for the reduction of the tac for cod from the current 38 cm to 35 cm. the ec justifies this reduction on the grounds that cod is very dense in the baltic sea and is therefore suffering from certain problems of reduced growth, increased parasites, etc., which has increased discards and reduced the size of mature specimens. the proposal to reduce the rtmc does not imply an increased mortality, because the characteristics of the permitted networks do not change. according to stecf, this reduction does not affect the fry, because spawning occurs below 35 cm. the reduction will have a positive effect on the economic returns of cod fisheries, as the current discards of between 30 and 35 cm represent 83% in number and weight. the baltic member states and the baltic raf also support it. in addition, the reduction in size will bring coherence with other regions, for example the north sea, where it is already 35 cm. i therefore voted against the proposal for a commission delegated act.
in writing. the european commission has presented a delegated act on the baltic sea discard plan. the plan envisages reducing the minimum conservation reference size (mcrs) of cod from the current 38 centimetres to 35. the ec justifies this reduction in the minimum conservation reference size on several grounds; the spanish delegation is particularly interested in the point on the reduction in size, which will bring coherence with other regions, for example the north sea, where it is already 35 cm. this sets a precedent in the approval of minimum sizes which will benefit spain when it applies the same for other species such as hake in future demersal plans for north-western and south-western waters.
in writing. the opinion of stecf scientists supports the idea of reducing the reference size of cod in the baltic sea. given that the size of this species has been reduced and that it is therefore mature at 35 centimetres, i voted against the motion for a resolution by the ecr group to support the decision of the stecf and the baltic sea advisory council.
in writing. the opinion of stecf scientists supports the idea of reducing the reference size of cod in the baltic sea. given that the size of this species has been reduced and that it is therefore mature at 35 centimetres, i voted against the motion for a resolution by the ecr group to support the decision of the stecf and the baltic sea advisory council.
in writing. i voted in favour of this because i believe that the reduction of the minimum reference size from 38 cm to 35 cm proposed by the commission for the conservation of cod in the baltic sea could weaken the reproductive capacity of this stock, encourage the creation of a market for fry and remove an important incentive to implement improvements in the use of more selective gear. in addition to all this, i am mindful of the council decision on the total allowable catch (tac) for cod stocks which foresees a reduction in the quota (7% in the western baltic and 22% in the eastern baltic) in 2015 in order to protect this species. i therefore voted in favour of these objections being raised.
in writing. the commission has presented a delegated act on the baltic discard plan which provides for the reduction of the tac for cod from the current 38 cm to 35 cm. the ec justifies this reduction on the grounds that cod is very dense in the baltic sea and is therefore suffering from certain problems of reduced growth, increased parasites, etc., which has increased discards and reduced the size of mature specimens. the proposal to reduce the rtmc does not imply an increased mortality, because the characteristics of the permitted networks do not change. according to stecf, this reduction does not affect juveniles, because spawning occurs below 35 cm. the reduction will have a positive effect on the economic returns of cod fisheries, as the current discards of between 30 and 35 cm represent 83% in number and weight. the baltic member states and the baltic raf also support it. in addition, the reduction in size will bring coherence with other regions, for example the north sea, where it is already 35 cm. i therefore voted against the proposal for a commission delegated act.
in writing. - the opinion of stecf scientists supports the idea of reducing the reference size of cod in the baltic sea. given that the size of this species has been reduced and that it is therefore mature at 35 centimetres, i voted against the motion for a resolution by the ecr group to support the decision of the stecf and the baltic sea advisory council.
in writing. the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to object to the delegated act on solvency ii, which was adopted by the commission on 10 october 2014. the main criticism is that the commission's proposal favours the insurance industry and weakens efforts to reduce insurance-related systemic risks. all this is contained in the motion for a resolution, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted against this motion for a resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 10 october 2014 supplementing directive 2009/138/ec of the european parliament and of the council on life insurance, insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) (c(2014) 07230 2014/2893 (dea)) as i agree with the majority of the house that it is not appropriate to object to the commission delegated regulation as this would prevent it from entering into force.
in writing. the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to object to the delegated act on solvency ii, which was adopted by the commission on 10 october 2014. the main criticism is that the commission's proposal favours the insurance industry and weakens efforts to reduce insurance-related systemic risks. all this is contained in the motion for a resolution, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - we abstained in the vote. the motion for a resolution, like many of its kind in this field, proposes one-off solutions which do not solve the structural problems facing both our traditional industrial sectors and our increasingly fragile environment. the resolution does not specify specific measures to have an impact on the generation of added value (r & d & i) and to preserve those industrial sectors which are strategic for europe, giving priority to energy efficiency and investment in appropriate technological developments. the resolution also fails to address the real challenge that europe continues to face: the urgent need to reform the european environmental tax system so that there is real regulation of human activities and their impacts on health, ecosystems and also on local industrial fabric.
in writing. - we abstained in the vote. the motion for a resolution, like many of its kind in this field, proposes one-off solutions which do not solve the structural problems facing both our traditional industrial sectors and our increasingly fragile environment. the resolution does not specify specific measures to have an impact on the generation of added value (r & d & i) and to preserve those industrial sectors which are strategic for europe, giving priority to energy efficiency and investment in appropriate technological developments. the resolution also fails to address the real challenge that europe continues to face: the urgent need to reform the european environmental tax system so that there is real regulation of human activities and their impacts on health, ecosystems and also on local industrial fabric.
in writing. the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to object to the delegated act on solvency ii, which was adopted by the commission on 10 october 2014. the main criticism is that the commission's proposal favours the insurance industry and weakens efforts to reduce insurance-related systemic risks. all this is contained in the motion for a resolution, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - we abstained in the vote. the motion for a resolution, like many of its kind in this field, proposes one-off solutions which do not solve the structural problems facing both our traditional industrial sectors and our increasingly fragile environment. the resolution does not specify specific measures to have an impact on the generation of added value (r & d & i) and to preserve those industrial sectors which are strategic for europe, giving priority to energy efficiency and investment in appropriate technological developments. the resolution also fails to address the real challenge that europe continues to face: the urgent need to reform the european environmental tax system so that there is real regulation of human activities and their impacts on health, ecosystems and also on local industrial fabric.
in writing. - we abstained in the vote. the motion for a resolution, like many of its kind in this field, proposes one-off solutions which do not solve the structural problems facing both our traditional industrial sectors and our increasingly fragile environment. the resolution does not specify specific measures to have an impact on the generation of added value (r & d & i) and to preserve those industrial sectors which are strategic for europe, giving priority to energy efficiency and investment in appropriate technological developments. the resolution also fails to address the real challenge that europe continues to face: the urgent need to reform the european environmental tax system so that there is real regulation of human activities and their impacts on health, ecosystems and also on local industrial fabric.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution objects to the delegated act on solvency ii, which was adopted by the commission on 10 october 2014. the main criticism is that the commission's proposal favours the insurance industry and weakens efforts to reduce insurance-related systemic risks. all this is contained in the motion for a resolution, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the delegated regulation on the bank solvency package known as solvency ii does not ensure a rigorous risk control of large banks and at the same time it deeply harms hundreds of small financial institutions which will have to contribute to a fund designed only for banks too big to fail.
in writing. i have not voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the preparation of a new internal security strategy for the next four years because it is based on the same principles as before, basing security on a purely repressive approach and ignoring the radical approach, that is, the root causes of these new threats. that is why i voted against.
in writing. the current security challenges in europe are cross-border, making it difficult for member states to respond individually. in 2010, the eu's internal security strategy (iss) was adopted, setting out guidelines for tackling security threats in europe where the eu can bring added value: international networks of cross-border crime, prevention of terrorist attacks, cyber security, border security or resilience to natural disasters. the commission presented its new proposal for the esi 2015-2019 in march. the resolution adopted recognises that the security situation in europe has changed dramatically due to new conflicts and calls for more effective cooperation between member states through greater use of valuable existing instruments such as joint investigation teams. it also calls for a future strategy focusing on both existing and emerging threats, with a holistic approach covering as many areas as possible, such as foreign fighters and cybersecurity threats. always in accordance with fundamental rights and data protection. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the text recognises that the security situation in europe has changed dramatically due to new conflicts and calls for more effective cooperation between member states through greater use of valuable existing instruments such as joint investigation teams. in addition, a future strategy focusing on both existing and emerging threats is required, with a holistic approach including as many areas as possible, such as foreign fighters and cybersecurity threats. it is important to note that this is a balanced text which emphasises the need to ensure that security measures are always carried out in accordance with fundamental rights and which refers in particular to the court of justice decision on data retention and the proposal for a data protection directive. the motion for a resolution and the oral question have been studied by all the political groups and, after much negotiation, agreement has been reached on a text.
in writing. i have not voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the preparation of a new internal security strategy for the next four years because it is based on the same principles as before, basing security on a purely repressive approach, ignoring the radical approach, that is, the root cause of these new threats. that is why i voted against.
in writing. the current security challenges in europe are cross-border, making it difficult for member states to respond individually. in 2010, the eu's internal security strategy (iss) was adopted, setting out guidelines for tackling security threats in europe where the eu can bring added value: international networks of cross-border crime, prevention of terrorist attacks, cyber security, border security or resilience to natural disasters. the commission presented its new proposal for the esi 2015-2019 in march. the resolution adopted recognises that the security situation in europe has changed dramatically due to new conflicts and calls for more effective cooperation between member states through greater use of valuable existing instruments such as joint investigation teams. it also calls for a future strategy focusing on both existing and emerging threats, with a holistic approach covering as many areas as possible, such as foreign fighters and cybersecurity threats. always in accordance with fundamental rights and data protection. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i have not voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the preparation of a new internal security strategy for the next four years because it is based on the same principles as before, basing security on a purely repressive approach and ignoring the radical approach, that is, the root causes of these new threats. that is why i voted against.
in writing. i consider it vital that the new internal security strategy (iss) for 2015-2019 is thoroughly prepared. we should focus on both existing and emerging security threats, highlighting priority areas such as cybersecurity, human trafficking and counter-terrorism, and related issues such as organised crime, money laundering and corruption. the transit between europe and conflict zones of european citizens who have joined terrorist groups poses a risk to the internal security of the eu. we must therefore set up mechanisms to analyse and counter this phenomenon, promoting political and religious tolerance, as well as fostering the development of social cohesion, inclusion and facilitating reintegration, and thus discouraging terrorism. to meet all these challenges, i believe that greater interinstitutional and crossborder cooperation is imperative, in which the right balance between prevention policies and repressive measures is never compromised, since the aim is to preserve freedom, security and justice. that is why i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution on the preparation of a new internal security strategy for the next four years because it is based on the same principles as before, basing security on a purely repressive approach and ignoring the radical approach, that is, the root causes of these new threats. that is why i voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that in the name of 'security' it is actually intended to weaken the rights of citizens and make them potentially suspect.
mr president, this is not our resolution. this is not a perfect resolution. we are missing, for example, a clear condemnation of israel's constant violations of international law. we have voted for it, however. we voted for it and, moreover, with a certain amount of enthusiasm, quite a lot of enthusiasm, because of the consensus it has generated. and above all because it unreservedly and unconditionally recognises the will of this parliament - and therefore the will of european citizens - to support the building of a palestinian state. it recognises the need and the right of the palestinian people, who have lived for centuries in their territories, to create a modern state, a state which can be recognized and internationally recognized, in order to ensure the welfare, social justice and future of their population. and it also means that europe is once again on the international front line. it involves europe in this peace process, in which we have not been heard for a long time, and it was time for us to return to it.
in writing. recognition of the palestinian state is a necessary, but not sufficient, step towards achieving peace between israel and palestine. i believe that the only way to resolve this conflict is through a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both states. in this way, the state of israel could live in peace and security alongside an independent, democratic and viable palestinian state. i support this motion for a resolution as a compromise solution and because of the high value of both the broad consensus reached by all the groups in this parliament and the important message we have sent with it. i want to express my firm support for the recognition of a palestinian state, since the right of the palestinians to have their own state is as unquestionable as the right of israel to exist within secure borders. i also value the leadership of high representative federica mogherini in this process, as i believe that the eu must play a more effective and genuine role in the peace process, and i believe it is necessary for eu member states to be united in their support for this legitimate process.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine as a first step in the right direction. the recognition of the state of palestine, its people, its borders and the end of the occupation is an international obligation and an important step towards peace. the member states must now formally recognise, and therefore protect, the space of the state of palestine in the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital. the right of the palestinian people to self-determination has been internationally recognized for 66 years. we call on all parties to refrain from any action that could undermine the viability of the two-state solution. therefore, settlements must end, apartheid must end and the attack on holy sites and the demolition of palestinian property must stop immediately.
in writing. recognition of the palestinian state is a necessary, but not sufficient, step towards achieving peace between israel and palestine. i believe that the only way to resolve this conflict is through a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both states. in this way, the state of israel could live in peace and security alongside an independent, democratic and viable palestinian state. i support this motion for a resolution as a compromise solution and because of the high value of both the broad consensus reached by all the groups in this parliament and the important message we have sent with it. i want to express my firm support for the recognition of a palestinian state, since the right of the palestinians to have their own state is as unquestionable as the right of israel to exist within secure borders. i also value the leadership of high representative federica mogherini in this process, as i believe that the eu must play a more effective and genuine role in the peace process, and i believe it is necessary for eu member states to be united in their support for this legitimate process.
in writing. what the european parliament has voted and approved today is not the recognition of palestine as a state. what the european parliament has approved today by an overwhelming majority is a clear and valuable gesture of recognition of the two-state solution and the revival of the peace process. the process of which mutual recognition and the safe and peaceful coexistence of both states are an inexcusable part. the european parliament is thus acting as a strict watchdog of the process and is demanding from the commission a single position, which it has entrusted to mrs mogherini. the demand for democratic behaviour and respect for human rights is twofold: on the one hand, israel, the only solid democracy in the middle east, the eu's trading and strategic partner; and on the other hand, palestine, which still has to be accredited and act as a state, to have a single government, to establish democratic practices and sound institutions and to condemn terrorism. i'm not sure. for all its shortcomings, it is a worthy gesture. that is why, despite the vagueness and the infinite possibilities of interpretation which an ambiguous and complacent text affords, i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because it includes the recognition of the palestinian state and the two-state solution on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both: a secure state of israel and an independent, democratic, contiguous and viable palestinian state, living side by side in peace and security, on the basis of the right to self-determination and full respect for international law. condemning all acts of terrorism and violence. and because it defends the need to develop peace negotiations. and thus consolidate the authority of the consensus palestinian government by calling on all palestinian factions, including hamas, to end internal divisions. the resolution reiterates that israeli settlements are illegal under international law and i believe, in accordance with the resolution, that the eu should become a facilitator of the middle east peace process and we therefore call on mrs mogherini to facilitate the achievement of a common position in the union to this end. the high representative needs strong support from parliament if europe is to play the role we so badly need.
in writing. recognition of the palestinian state is a necessary, but not sufficient, step towards achieving peace between israel and palestine. i believe that the only way to resolve this conflict is through a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both states. in this way, the state of israel could live in peace and security alongside an independent, democratic and viable palestinian state. i support this motion for a resolution as a compromise solution and because of the high value of both the broad consensus reached by all the groups in this parliament and the important message we have sent with it. i want to express my firm support for the recognition of a palestinian state, since the right of the palestinians to have their own state is as unquestionable as the right of israel to exist within secure borders. i also value the leadership of high representative federica mogherini in this process, as i believe that the eu must play a more effective and genuine role in the peace process, and i believe it is necessary for eu member states to be united in their support for this legitimate process.
in writing. parliament's plenary session is in favour of the member states recognising the palestinian state. we express our firm support for the recognition of a palestinian state. we consider that the right of the palestinians to self-determination and to have their own state is unquestionable, as is the right of israel to exist within secure borders. we call on the eu member states to stand united in their support for this legitimate process. we will continue our work to ensure that the european union plays a more effective and genuine role in the peace process. we remain deeply convinced that a single european voice is a key factor in the search for a global solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. we believe that the only way to resolve the conflict between israel and palestine is through a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both states. in this way, the state of israel could live in peace and security alongside an independent, democratic and viable state of palestine.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine as a first step in the right direction. the recognition of the state of palestine, its people, its borders and the end of the occupation is an international obligation and an important step towards peace. the member states must now formally recognise, and therefore protect, the space of the state of palestine in the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital. the right of the palestinian people to self-determination has been internationally recognized for 66 years. we call on all parties to refrain from any action that could undermine the viability of the two-state solution. therefore, settlements must end, apartheid must end and the attack on holy sites and the demolition of palestinian property must stop immediately.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution in the hope that this political gesture will help to unlock the peace process between the state of israel and the palestinian authority. the united nations acceptance of palestine as an observer state, together with the recognition by some eu member states, are steps towards the resumption of the middle east peace process. it must never be perceived as a decision agreed against israel, a state for which i have great respect. after so many years of conflict in the middle east, the only possible solution is the peaceful and negotiated coexistence of two states, israel and palestine. this recognition must be the result of a negotiating process between the parties which guarantees peace and security for both. i am convinced that peaceful coexistence between israel and palestine is possible, but this end will only be achieved if negotiation and dialogue are given a chance. the past cannot shape the present and the future if lasting peace is to be achieved.
in writing. recognition of the palestinian state is a necessary, but not sufficient, step towards achieving peace between israel and palestine. i believe that the only way to resolve this conflict is through a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both states. in this way, the state of israel could live in peace and security alongside an independent, democratic and viable palestinian state. i support this motion for a resolution as a compromise solution and because of the high value of both the broad consensus reached by all the groups in this parliament and the important message we have sent with it. i want to express my firm support for the recognition of a palestinian state, since the right of the palestinians to have their own state is as unquestionable as the right of israel to exist within secure borders. i also value the leadership of high representative federica mogherini in this process, as i believe that the eu must play a more effective and genuine role in the peace process, and i believe it is necessary for eu member states to be united in their support for this legitimate process.
in writing. i have supported this motion for a resolution because i am in favour of the recognition of the state of palestine and the two-state solution based on the 1967 borders (with jerusalem as the capital of both states, with a secure state of israel and an independent, democratic, contiguous and viable state of palestine), living side by side in peace and security, on the basis of the right to self-determination and full respect for international law, and, as we have pointed out in the ep, i believe that this process should go hand in hand with the development of peace negotiations, which must move forward. to this end, i support the 'parliamentarians for peace' initiative to bring together meps with members of the israeli and palestinian parliaments to support the middle east peace process. and of course, in this resolution we also condemn all acts of terrorism and violence. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because we consider it a step forward for a majority of the european parliament to take a position in favour of a basic demand such as the creation and international recognition of a palestinian state with its capital in jerusalem. this is nothing more than a reaffirmation of what the un already demands in its 1947 resolution 181, paradoxically the only one that israel partially complies with, as regards the partition of palestine. we also believe that the recognition of the palestinian state should be only one step in the process of achieving a just peace which, taking into account the demands of civil society itself, should include the end of the occupation (in compliance with un resolution 242 of 1967), the right of return of refugees (resolution 194 of 1948) and a state guaranteeing full equality for all its citizens. we also believe that, in order to enforce the content of the resolution, the eu should use pressure mechanisms, at least the suspension of the eu-israel bilateral agreement, in accordance with article 2 thereof, in view of the flagrant violation of human rights that the continuation of the blockade of the gaza strip entails.
in writing. recognition of the palestinian state is a necessary, but not sufficient, step towards achieving peace between israel and palestine. i believe that the only way to resolve this conflict is through a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both states. in this way, the state of israel could live in peace and security alongside an independent, democratic and viable palestinian state. i support this motion for a resolution as a compromise solution and because of the high value of both the broad consensus reached by all the groups in this parliament and the important message we have sent with it. i want to express my firm support for the recognition of a palestinian state, since the right of the palestinians to have their own state is as unquestionable as the right of israel to exist within secure borders. i also value the leadership of high representative federica mogherini in this process, as i believe that the eu must play a more effective and genuine role in the peace process, and i believe it is necessary for eu member states to be united in their support for this legitimate process.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because we consider it a step forward for a majority of the european parliament to take a position in favour of a basic demand such as the creation and international recognition of a palestinian state with its capital in jerusalem. this is nothing more than a reaffirmation of what the un already demands in its 1947 resolution 181, paradoxically the only one that israel partially complies with, as regards the partition of palestine. we also believe that the recognition of the palestinian state should be only one step in the process of achieving a just peace which, taking into account the demands of civil society itself, should include the end of the occupation (in compliance with un resolution 242 of 1967), the right of return of refugees (resolution 194 of 1948) and a state guaranteeing full equality for all its citizens. we also believe that, in order to enforce the content of the resolution, the eu should use pressure mechanisms, at least the suspension of the eu-israel bilateral agreement, in accordance with article 2 thereof, in view of the flagrant violation of human rights that the continuation of the blockade of the gaza strip entails.
in writing. eh bildu voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state as a first step in the right direction. the recognition of the state of palestine, its people and its borders, and the end of the occupation, the settlements, apartheid and the attacks on the future of the palestinian people is an international obligation and a positive step towards peace. it is now the duty of the eu member states, in accordance with the european parliament and international resolutions, to formally recognise the palestinian state.
in writing. recognition of the palestinian state is a necessary, but not sufficient, step towards achieving peace between israel and palestine. i believe that the only way to resolve this conflict is through a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both states. in this way, the state of israel could live in peace and security alongside an independent, democratic and viable palestinian state. i support this motion for a resolution as a compromise solution and because of the high value of both the broad consensus reached by all the groups in this parliament and the important message we have sent with it. i want to express my firm support for the recognition of a palestinian state, since the right of the palestinians to have their own state is as unquestionable as the right of israel to exist within secure borders. i also value the leadership of high representative federica mogherini in this process, as i believe that the eu must play a more effective and genuine role in the peace process, and i believe it is necessary for eu member states to be united in their support for this legitimate process.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine as a first step in the right direction. the recognition of the state of palestine, its people, its borders and the end of the occupation is an international obligation and an important step towards peace. the member states must now formally recognise, and therefore protect, the space of the state of palestine in the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital. the right of the palestinian people to self-determination has been internationally recognized for 66 years. we call on all parties to refrain from any action that could undermine the viability of the two-state solution. therefore, settlements must end, apartheid must end and the attack on holy sites and the demolition of palestinian property must stop immediately.
in writing. the european parliament has voted and approved by an overwhelming majority the making of an express and valuable gesture of recognition of the two-state solution: israel and palestine. and the desire that they serve to revive the peace process. the mutual recognition and the safe and peaceful coexistence of both are inexcusable. the european parliament wishes to help this process to be carried out and calls on the commission to adopt a common european position which can be managed by commissioner mogherini. the european demand for democratic behaviour and respect for human rights is twofold: on the one hand, israel and on the other, palestine, which must establish democratic practices and sound institutions and condemn terrorism. the text contains ambiguities, but it seeks to help remove a deadlock. i voted for it voluntarily.
in writing. i abstained from today's vote on the joint resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine because i consider that the wording of the draft joint resolution departs from the position expressed in the original motion by my group, which i co-authored. i am convinced that the palestinian state can only be recognized on the basis of a peace process with israel, but this is not explicitly stated in the final text.
in writing. recognition of the palestinian state is a necessary, but not sufficient, step towards achieving peace between israel and palestine. i believe that the only way to resolve this conflict is through a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both states. in this way, the state of israel could live in peace and security alongside an independent, democratic and viable palestinian state. i support this motion for a resolution as a compromise solution and because of the high value of both the broad consensus reached by all the groups in this parliament and the important message we have sent with it. i want to express my firm support for the recognition of a palestinian state, because i consider that the right of the palestinians to have their own state is as unquestionable as the right of israel to exist within secure borders. i also value the leadership of high representative federica mogherini in this process, as i believe that the eu must play a more effective and genuine role in the peace process, and i believe it is necessary for eu member states to be united in their support for this legitimate process.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because we consider it a step forward for a majority of the european parliament to take a position in favour of a basic demand such as the creation and international recognition of a palestinian state with its capital in jerusalem. this is nothing more than a reaffirmation of what the un already demands in its 1947 resolution 181, paradoxically the only one that israel partially complies with, as regards the partition of palestine. we also believe that the recognition of the palestinian state should be only one step in the process of achieving a just peace which, taking into account the demands of civil society itself, should include the end of the occupation (in compliance with un resolution 242 of 1967), the right of return of refugees (resolution 194 of 1948) and a state guaranteeing full equality for all its citizens. we also believe that, in order to enforce the content of the resolution, the eu should use pressure mechanisms, at least the suspension of the eu-israel bilateral agreement, in accordance with article 2 thereof, in view of the flagrant violation of human rights that the continuation of the blockade of the gaza strip entails.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because we consider it a step forward for a majority of the european parliament to take a position in favour of a basic demand such as the creation and international recognition of a palestinian state with its capital in jerusalem. this is nothing more than a reaffirmation of what the un already demands in its 1947 resolution 181, paradoxically the only one that israel partially complies with, as regards the partition of palestine. we also believe that the recognition of the palestinian state should be only one step in the process of achieving a just peace which, taking into account the demands of civil society itself, should include the end of the occupation (in compliance with un resolution 242 of 1967), the right of return of refugees (resolution 194 of 1948) and a state guaranteeing full equality for all its citizens. we also believe that, in order to enforce the content of the resolution, the eu should use pressure mechanisms, at least the suspension of the eu-israel bilateral agreement, in accordance with article 2 thereof, in view of the flagrant violation of human rights that the continuation of the blockade of the gaza strip entails.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine as a first step in the right direction. the recognition of the state of palestine, its people, its borders and the end of the occupation is an international obligation and an important step towards peace. the member states must now formally recognise, and therefore protect, the space of the state of palestine in the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital. the right of the palestinian people to self-determination has been internationally recognized for 66 years. we call on all parties to refrain from any action that could undermine the viability of the two-state solution. therefore, settlements must end, apartheid must end and the attack on holy sites and the demolition of palestinian property must stop immediately.
in writing. - i have abstained from the ‘recognition of palestine statehood’ resolution as i don't believe it is useful or appropriate to do this now, nor will it contribute to peace talks. i am in favour of a two-state solution as a medium- and long-term solution, but before that, hamas leaders and organisation should recognise the right of israel to exist in its borders. moreover, they should recognise the right of israel to its security. you cannot ask israel to recognise the palestinian state without asking the same of its palestinian counterpart. i feel the message of this resolution will be taken, of course, as a victory in the arab world and will make palestinians believe they do not have to negotiate with israel, but just need to seek international recognitions through several parliaments’ vote. furthermore, only one month ago, high representative mogherini came to debate the issue in this house. she said she would come back with a roadmap towards peace. we haven't seen anything yet, so why this rush now?
in writing. i have voted in favour of the need to recognise palestine as a state in order to move forward with the peace process. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to adopt this report.
mr president, we have supported the motion for a resolution by the group of the european united left because we believe that the serious situation in the steel sector in europe is the result of selling the industry to the highest bidder and not a matter of 'competitiveness', as the majority groups would have us believe. in spain, high value-added and geographically rooted enterprises face the threat of relocation by large multinational groups. these impose very harsh adjustments which the policies of the european union only exacerbate. on the one hand, europe remains unmoved by the serious abuses of the energy and financial oligopolies which are suffocating industry. it also encourages competition between member states, reinforcing the tendency for the production of higher value added products to be concentrated in a few european regions. we believe that the answer to the industrial crisis is, among other things, to regain public control of the strategic sectors on which the sector depends, by opting for a programme of investment and public aid that preserves employment in dynamic and efficient sectors such as the spanish steel industry and auxiliary companies. from this point of view, we stand in solidarity with the workers of alcoa, thyssenkrupp, elcogas and bosal, who are fighting for their jobs, for their future and for the future of the industry.
in writing. the serious situation of the steel sector in europe is the result of selling the industry to the highest bidder and not a matter of competitiveness as the majority groups' motion for a resolution advocates. high value-added businesses across the eu are constantly threatened by relocations by large multinational groups that impose very harsh adjustments that eu policies only exacerbate. on the one hand, europe remains unmoved by the gross abuses of the energy and financial oligopolies which are suffocating industry. and it also encourages competition between member states, reinforcing the tendency for higher value-added production to be concentrated in certain regions of the eu. the response to the industrial crisis is to regain public control of the strategic sectors on which the sector depends, by focusing on investment and public aid to preserve employment in the sector. since none of this is included in the joint resolution, i could not vote in favour of it and i abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution and not as my group voted because i consider the steel sector to be a strategic sector of the european union, which the eu should support in order to remove obstacles and threats to its competitiveness, increase its capacity and respond to changing conditions in europe and the world by strengthening its support for innovation, technology and research through the horizon 2020 programme and spire, as well as with a stronger role for the eib by investing in riskier projects. we must commit ourselves so that the sector can, through innovation, make possible quality and energy-efficient products.
in writing. the resolution underlines the role that the steel industry, recognised as one of the strategic sectors of european industry, must play in the reindustrialisation of europe. the resolution calls on the commission to present as soon as possible a roadmap for the industrial recovery of europe and the integration of the steel industry into it. parliament called on the commission to relaunch the high level group on steel and to speed up the implementation of the 40 measures of the steel plan, but also to prevent unfair competition from third countries. it also stresses the need to invest in research and development in the european economy in general and in the steel industry in particular. the resolution also calls on the commission to ensure that the current system of state aid does not distort the internal market and to ensure a level playing field for companies, as industry needs a stable framework for its investments in order to maintain employment. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the resolution underlines the role which the steel industry is called upon to play in the reindustrialisation of europe. the commission is also asked to give its views on the steel plan, in particular on its financing, timing and implementation of the 40 measures. the resolution addresses the competitiveness of the steel industry in the internal and global markets, the need for investment in research and innovation, concrete measures to reduce the high energy costs facing the sector and the need to urgently modernise trade defence instruments to protect the european industry from social and environmental dumping by third countries. an amendment tabled by the spanish socialist members of the itre committee has been incorporated, requesting that measures be taken to ensure that the current scheme of state aid to energy-intensive industries does not create distortions in the internal market, so that a level playing field is guaranteed for companies and that energy-intensive industries can have a stable framework for their investments and guarantee employment.
in writing. the serious situation of the steel sector in europe is the result of selling the industry to the highest bidder and not a matter of competitiveness as the majority groups' motion for a resolution advocates. high value-added businesses across the eu are constantly threatened by relocations by large multinational groups that impose very harsh adjustments that eu policies only exacerbate. on the one hand, europe remains unmoved by the gross abuses of the energy and financial oligopolies which are suffocating industry. and it also encourages competition between member states, reinforcing the tendency for higher value-added production to be concentrated in certain regions of the eu. the response to the industrial crisis is to regain public control of the strategic sectors on which the sector depends, by focusing on investment and public aid to preserve employment in the sector. since none of this is included in the joint resolution, i could not vote in favour of it and i abstained.
in writing. in june 2013, the european commission presented an action plan for the european steel industry with the aim of helping the sector to lay the foundations for future competitiveness by fostering innovation, generating growth and creating jobs. the european commission also committed itself to reducing costs for industry, in particular those arising from eu regulation. the action plan also provided for specific measures to support employment in the sector in europe. however, the action plan has not yet been translated into concrete initiatives by the commission. i would like to stress the importance of the resolution we have adopted today, which stresses the need to achieve these objectives, and the fact that, at the initiative of the socialist group, the resolution includes the need for europe to have a stable european framework for supporting energy-intensive industries, avoiding distortions in the internal market, accelerating the renewal of trade defence instruments to combat unfair competition, continuing to support ccs pilot projects and boosting investment in the modernisation of european-based plants.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution bearing in mind that, although the steel industry is fundamental to growth and prosperity in europe, it is a sector in crisis. the european steel industry has for years been an important source of wealth for the economies of the member states and must remain competitive in european and non-european markets. we must prevent the sector from losing jobs any further, given that it provides 350 000 direct jobs. the steel sector is a good example of how an economic sector with a long history has been able to adapt to new technologies, reducing their environmental impact. eu steel products meet stricter social, environmental and economic standards than elsewhere, and the sector must be protected by measures to prevent its outsourcing outside the eu. the commission has also taken the view that the measures proposed by the member states should be implemented in a manner that is compatible with the common market.
in writing. the serious situation of the steel sector in europe is the result of selling the industry to the highest bidder and not a matter of competitiveness as the majority groups' motion for a resolution advocates. high value-added businesses across the eu are constantly threatened by relocations by large multinational groups that impose very harsh adjustments that eu policies only exacerbate. on the one hand, europe remains unmoved by the gross abuses of the energy and financial oligopolies which are suffocating industry. and it also encourages competition between member states, reinforcing the tendency for higher value-added production to be concentrated in certain regions of the eu. the response to the industrial crisis is to regain public control of the strategic sectors on which the sector depends, by focusing on investment and public aid to preserve employment in the sector. since none of this is included in the joint resolution, i could not vote in favour of it and i abstained.
in writing. the resolution underlines the role that the steel industry, recognised as one of the strategic sectors of european industry, must play in the reindustrialisation of europe. the resolution calls on the commission to present as soon as possible a roadmap for the industrial recovery of europe and the integration of the steel industry into it. parliament called on the commission to relaunch the high level group on steel and to speed up the implementation of the 40 measures of the steel plan, but also to prevent unfair competition from third countries. it also stresses the need to invest in research and development in the european economy in general and in the steel industry in particular. the resolution also calls on the commission to ensure that the current system of state aid does not distort the internal market and to ensure a level playing field for companies, as industry needs a stable framework for its investments in order to maintain employment. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the serious situation of the steel sector in europe is the result of selling the industry to the highest bidder and not a matter of competitiveness as the majority groups' motion for a resolution advocates. high value-added businesses across the eu are constantly threatened by relocations by large multinational groups that impose very harsh adjustments that eu policies only exacerbate. on the one hand, europe remains unmoved by the gross abuses of the energy and financial oligopolies which are suffocating industry. and it also encourages competition between member states, reinforcing the tendency for higher value-added production to be concentrated in certain regions of the eu. the response to the industrial crisis is to regain public control of the strategic sectors on which the sector depends, by focusing on investment and public aid to preserve employment in the sector. since none of this is included in the joint resolution, i could not vote in favour of it and i abstained.
in writing. more than a year ago, after the lampedusa tragedy, the ep adopted a resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean and the council was to set up a special group. this was followed by several communications from the commission. last month the council adopted measures to better manage migration flows and at the last plenary we expressed the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. despite all this, deaths have continued to occur and the desired change in approach to immigration is not seen, the victim of a negative look that ignores the opportunities it offers and does not give alternatives to legal immigration. this resolution sets out the elements which a comprehensive approach must contain and calls on the libe commission to submit a strategic report on the subject. it also raises issues such as the exercise of solidarity and fair burden-sharing as required by article 80 tfeu, rescue and anti-mafia obligations, extension of the mandate of frontex, establishment of safe routes for immigration, improved resettlement and improved policies and management of immigration funds. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution because its purpose, which is to give a mandate to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this house to set up a committee of inquiry into the situation of migration in the mediterranean, has been very much diluted. but, more importantly, the resolution does not reject the fundamental pillar of eu immigration policy: frontex. it is a migration policy based on a repressive view of migration, ignoring its root causes: the phenomenon of migration from the countries of the southern mediterranean to the eu countries exists because we in europe continue to plunder the natural resources of those countries, thus preventing them from economic prosperity and a future for their peoples. if migrants from africa continue to arrive on our shores, it is because we continue to encourage wars in their countries that push them to leave. i have therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. more than a year ago, after the lampedusa tragedy, the ep adopted a resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean and the council was to set up a special group. this was followed by several communications from the commission. last month the council adopted measures to better manage migration flows and at the last plenary we expressed the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. despite all this, deaths have continued to occur and the desired change in approach to immigration is not seen, the victim of a negative look that ignores the opportunities it offers and does not give alternatives to legal immigration. this resolution sets out the elements which a comprehensive approach must contain and calls on the libe commission to submit a strategic report on the subject. it also raises issues such as the exercise of solidarity and fair burden-sharing as required by article 80 tfeu, rescue and anti-mafia obligations, extension of the mandate of frontex, establishment of safe routes for immigration, improved resettlement and improved policies and management of immigration funds. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. more than a year ago, following the lampedusa tragedy, the ep adopted a resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean and the council set up a task force. this was followed by several communications from the commission. last month the council adopted measures to better manage migration flows and at the last plenary we expressed the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. despite all this, deaths have continued to occur and the desired change in approach to immigration is not seen, the victim of a negative look that ignores the opportunities it offers and does not give alternatives to legal immigration. this resolution sets out the elements which a comprehensive approach must contain and calls on the libe commission to submit a strategic report on the subject. it also raises issues such as the exercise of solidarity and fair burden-sharing under article 80 teu, rescue and anti-mafia obligations, the extension of the mandate of frontex, the establishment of safe routes for immigration, improved resettlement, and improved immigration policies and management of funds. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. more than a year ago, in the wake of the lampedusa tragedy, the ep adopted a resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean and the council set up the task force on the mediterranean, which was followed by several commission communications. last month the council also adopted conclusions on measures to better manage migration flows. nevertheless, many deaths have continued to occur in the mediterranean since then. the ep raised a number of issues in this context: solidarity and fair burden-sharing under article 80 of the treaty, obligations in the field of rescue at sea and the fight against mafias, the desirability of extending the mandate of frontex, the need to establish safe and legal routes and pathways for immigration, improved resettlement, the management of immigration funds and improved immigration policies. the debate made clear the need to articulate a new integrated approach. the resolution attempts to set out the elements that such an approach should contain. the most significant aspect is that it calls on the libe committee to draw up a comprehensive strategic own-initiative report on this subject and calls for additional means to carry it out.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution because its purpose, which is to give a mandate to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this house to set up a committee of inquiry into the situation of migration in the mediterranean, has been very much diluted. but, more importantly, the resolution does not reject the fundamental pillar of eu immigration policy: frontex. it is a migration policy based on a repressive view of migration, ignoring its root causes: the phenomenon of migration from the countries of the southern mediterranean to the eu countries exists because we in europe continue to plunder the natural resources of those countries, thus preventing them from economic prosperity and a future for their peoples. if migrants from africa continue to arrive on our shores, it is because we continue to encourage wars in their countries that push them to leave. i have therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. more than a year ago, after the lampedusa tragedy, the ep adopted a resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean and the council was to set up a special group. this was followed by several communications from the commission. last month the council adopted measures to better manage migration flows and at the last plenary we expressed the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. despite all this, deaths have continued to occur and the desired change in approach to immigration is not seen, the victim of a negative look that ignores the opportunities it offers and does not give alternatives to legal immigration. this resolution sets out the elements which a comprehensive approach must contain and calls on the libe commission to submit a strategic report on the subject. it also raises issues such as the exercise of solidarity and fair burden-sharing as required by article 80 tfeu, rescue and anti-mafia obligations, extension of the mandate of frontex, establishment of safe routes for immigration, improved resettlement and improved policies and management of immigration funds. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach as it represents a humanitarian drama which the eu must address to prevent tragedies like lampedusa from happening again. according to the international organization for migration, in the first nine months of 2014, at least 3,072 people have died in the mediterranean sea while trying to reach european shores. we must be determined to put an end to the smugglers and traffickers of human beings who exploit irregular immigration and who pose a serious risk to the lives of migrants. the eu must recognise that irregular immigration is a problem affecting the whole union and that a comprehensive approach to this issue is therefore essential. the member states must provide frontex with the necessary means and cooperate closely to ensure the proper control of the eu's borders, especially in the mediterranean sea. similarly, it is essential to continue to cooperate with countries of origin and transit in order to address the causes of migration.
in writing. more than a year ago, after the lampedusa tragedy, the ep adopted a resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean and the council was to set up a special group. this was followed by several communications from the commission. last month the council adopted measures to better manage migration flows and at the last plenary we expressed the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. despite all this, deaths have continued to occur and the desired change in approach to immigration is not seen, the victim of a negative look that ignores the opportunities it offers and does not give alternatives to legal immigration. this resolution sets out the elements which a comprehensive approach must contain and calls on the libe commission to submit a strategic report on the subject. it also raises issues such as the exercise of solidarity and fair burden-sharing as required by article 80 tfeu, rescue and anti-mafia obligations, extension of the mandate of frontex, establishment of safe routes for immigration, improved resettlement and improved policies and management of immigration funds. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. i strongly support this motion for a resolution because of its importance for an eu strategy on immigration and to try to avoid tragedies in the mediterranean sea. it highlights the elements that a comprehensive approach must contain, such as the importance of enhancing safe and legal routes of entry into the european union (eu), the need to pay more attention to the criminal activity of smugglers and traffickers, and the possibility of strengthening resettlement. it also stresses that the eu must share equally responsibility and solidarity towards member states receiving the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers; the union must ensure safe and legal access to its asylum system and explore legal immigration pathways. the civil liberties committee will have to analyse the different immigration policies in the eu and make recommendations to be included in a strategic report to be presented before the end of 2015.
in writing. - i voted against because the text does not address several crucial issues to deal with the dramatic and desperate situation in the mediterranean faced by migrants trying to reach europe. on the one hand, it does not agree to set up a committee of inquiry, which is a priority for me. the text talks about providing more resources for ad hoc hearings and delegations, which means an investment of those resources to have a theoretical approach through experts, but it does not specify the creation of a commission of inquiry. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, including the introduction of a new system of national criminal law. the idea of europe as a fortress is thus strengthened.
in writing. more than a year ago, after the lampedusa tragedy, the ep adopted a resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean and the council was to set up a special group. this was followed by several communications from the commission. last month the council adopted measures to better manage migration flows and at the last plenary we expressed the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. despite all this, deaths have continued to occur and the desired change in approach to immigration is not seen, the victim of a negative look that ignores the opportunities it offers and does not give alternatives to legal immigration. this resolution sets out the elements which a comprehensive approach must contain and calls on the libe commission to submit a strategic report on the subject. it also raises issues such as the exercise of solidarity and fair burden-sharing as required by article 80 tfeu, rescue and anti-mafia obligations, extension of the mandate of frontex, establishment of safe routes for immigration, improved resettlement and improved policies and management of immigration funds. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted against because the text does not address several crucial issues to deal with the dramatic and desperate situation in the mediterranean faced by migrants trying to reach europe. on the one hand, it does not agree to set up a committee of inquiry, which is a priority for me. the text talks about providing more resources for ad hoc hearings and delegations, which means an investment of those resources to have a theoretical approach through experts, but it does not specify the creation of a commission of inquiry. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, including the introduction of a new system of national criminal law. the idea of europe as a fortress is thus strengthened.
in writing. eh bildu voted against the motion for a resolution on the situation in the mediterranean sea and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration because it expressly reinforces the role of the european agency frontex as guardian of the union's external borders. in other words, it perpetuates the conception of the european union as a fortress and perceives the arrival of people seeking a better future and/or fleeing political, armed conflicts or humanitarian crises as a security issue, that is, as a threat. the eu wants to require third countries to respect basic principles that it does not always apply itself, such as saving lives at sea, ensuring the protection of refugees and respecting fundamental rights.
in writing. more than a year ago, after the lampedusa tragedy, the ep adopted a resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean and the council was to set up a special group. this was followed by several communications from the commission. last month the council adopted measures to better manage migration flows and at the last plenary we expressed the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. despite all this, deaths have continued to occur and the desired change in approach to immigration is not seen, the victim of a negative look that ignores the opportunities it offers and does not give alternatives to legal immigration. this resolution sets out the elements which a comprehensive approach must contain and calls on the libe commission to submit a strategic report on the subject. it also raises issues such as the exercise of solidarity and fair burden-sharing as required by article 80 tfeu, rescue and anti-mafia obligations, extension of the mandate of frontex, establishment of safe routes for immigration, improved resettlement and improved policies and management of immigration funds. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. i could not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution because its purpose, which is to give a mandate to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this house to set up a committee of inquiry into the situation of migration in the mediterranean, has been very much diluted. but, more importantly, the resolution does not reject the fundamental pillar of eu immigration policy: frontex. it is a migration policy based on a repressive view of migration, ignoring its root causes: the phenomenon of migration from the countries of the southern mediterranean to the eu countries exists because we in europe continue to plunder the natural resources of those countries, thus preventing them from economic prosperity and a future for their peoples. if migrants from africa continue to arrive on our shores, it is because we continue to encourage wars in their countries that push them to leave. i have therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the committee responsible is asked to analyse how the funds for internal affairs, including emergency funds, are spent, in particular for actions in the areas of migration and asylum, border control, the fight against border crossers and traffickers, and return, as well as funds relating to the eu's external and development policy. and to report to the plenary by means of a strategic own-initiative report before the end of 2015. it is necessary to explore future initiatives that follow the positive examples of resettlement, including the voluntary resettlement programme provided for in article 17 of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the asylum, migration and integration fund, in order to enhance the union's comprehensive approach to migration and to improve the situation in the mediterranean sea. for all these reasons, i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. more than a year ago, after the lampedusa tragedy, the ep adopted a resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean and the council was to set up a special group. this was followed by several communications from the commission. last month the council adopted measures to better manage migration flows and at the last plenary we expressed the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration. despite all this, deaths have continued to occur and the desired change in approach to immigration is not seen, the victim of a negative look that ignores the opportunities it offers and does not give alternatives to legal immigration. this resolution sets out the elements which a comprehensive approach must contain and calls on the libe commission to submit a strategic report on the subject. it also raises issues such as the exercise of solidarity and fair burden-sharing as required by article 80 tfeu, rescue and anti-mafia obligations, extension of the mandate of frontex, establishment of safe routes for immigration, improved resettlement and improved policies and management of immigration funds. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted against because the text does not address several crucial issues to deal with the dramatic and desperate situation in the mediterranean faced by migrants trying to reach europe. on the one hand, it does not agree to set up a committee of inquiry, which is a priority for me. the text talks about providing more resources for ad hoc hearings and delegations, which means an investment of those resources to have a theoretical approach through experts, but it does not specify the creation of a commission of inquiry. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, including the introduction of a new system of national criminal law. the idea of europe as a fortress is thus strengthened.
in writing. i voted against because the text does not address several crucial issues to deal with the dramatic and desperate situation in the mediterranean faced by migrants trying to reach europe. on the one hand, it does not agree to set up a committee of inquiry, which is a priority for me. the text talks about providing more resources for ad hoc hearings and delegations, which means an investment of those resources to have a theoretical approach through experts, but it does not specify the creation of a commission of inquiry. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, including the introduction of a new system of national criminal law. the idea of europe as a fortress is thus strengthened.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution because its objective, which is to give a mandate to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this house to set up a committee of inquiry into the situation of migration in the mediterranean, has been very much diluted. but, more importantly, the resolution does not reject the fundamental pillar of eu immigration policy: frontex. it is a migration policy based on a repressive view of migration, ignoring its root causes: the phenomenon of migration from the countries of the southern mediterranean to the eu countries exists because we in europe continue to plunder the natural resources of those countries, thus preventing them from economic prosperity and a future for their peoples. if migrants from africa continue to arrive on our shores, it is because we continue to encourage wars in their countries that push them to leave. i have therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour as i believe that the eu's stronghold migration policy should be changed immediately. i am therefore in favour of increasing efforts to solve the problems in the societies of origin.
mr. president, introducing food and objects into the prisoner's anus; pouring hot liquid over the prisoner's penis; keeping the prisoner without sleep for 104 hours in a row; threatening the prisoner with raping his mother; making the prisoner hear the cries of a disabled relative. these are some of the procedural practices we have come to know from that report. the problem is not that there are humans who are capable of doing this to other humans: there will always be dogs willing to do the bidding of their masters. the problem is not that there are fascist members of parliament defending the practice of torture in this house. the problem is, these masters wear jackets and ties and have the consideration of democrats. the problem is that in this house some of your honourable members, such as some members of the socialist party and the people's party in my country, were involved in governments which collaborated with the cia in the transfer of detainees who were to be tortured. that is the problem, your honours.
mr. president, it's a descent into hell to know the details of "advanced interrogation techniques", the euphemism the cia used for torture, torture, torture... you have to repeat it many times. this is not the first time we have heard about this in the european parliament. a 2012 resolution called for an investigation into the involvement in the detention and torture program of european countries, and also spoke of the obstacles to judicial and parliamentary investigations. i am ashamed to know that my country was complicit in these events, in the abduction and torture of human beings, just as the secret prisons in romania, poland or lithuania, or the 18 member states that collaborated, were complicit. the resolution that is adopted must demand conviction but, above all, an investigation that identifies the culprits, the collaborators, and puts them in the hands of justice. convictions are useless if you don't avoid repetition by pursuing the guilty. if not, this european parliament will have to stop talking about human rights.
mr president, this parliament must reopen the committee of inquiry which, during 2006 and 2007, tried to establish what happened to the cia flights. the end does not justify the means and democracies must be accountable for both the ends and the means. we recognize the exemplary work that the us senate has done, but we cannot stand alone in recognizing that exemplary work. this parliament investigated the cia flight programme in 2006 and 2007 - i was a member of that non-permanent committee - with great difficulty. in view of the report by the us senate, this report by the european parliament is no longer useful to us. that is why we must reopen that committee of inquiry. we must do so, as the us senate has done, without fear of knowing the truth, to clear up the responsibilities that would result. we owe it to this house, which has worked with great difficulty. and we owe it to the european citizens who are watching us. you see, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be able to give lessons - as we are going to do this week - on human rights to sudan, mauritania, venezuela and egypt, we must first be able to set an example. and this debate, today's debate, must be the beginning - not the end - of a work that this parliament has to complete, which began in 2006 and was unable to complete. that is what we are asking from the socialist group. we need to reopen the investigation committee. i'm sorry mr brok is not here. guantanamo has to be shut down. beyond whether or not countries host guantanamo detainees. because when they opened guantanamo, they didn't ask anyone's permission.
mr president, the subject is the use of torture by the cia, but it links directly to member states of the european union, both because of their complicity in the cia's plan for detention centres in europe and because torture is also practised here in the european union. the commissioner has recalled this when he stressed that the european commission is fighting for the eradication of torture both in the european union and in the rest of the world. and he also spoke of prosecuting the guilty - not like in the united states, where president obama has just given an official certificate of impunity. here in europe, in a political trial taking place in madrid against 28 young basques, it has been established, on the basis of the application of the istanbul protocol, that they were subjected to torture and, just two months ago, the european court of human rights condemned, once again, the spanish state for failing to investigate allegations of torture made by basque or catalan citizens.
madam president, the actions against journalists and the free press in turkey deserve our full condemnation, as is happening in this parliament, not only because they are an attack on freedom of expression, but because they send a message that we do not like at all about where erdoğan is leading his country. the space for the opposition and the space for the people protesting is getting smaller and smaller in turkey, and even the rhetoric of the government is becoming more and more intolerant. the socialist group in this house and, of course, the spanish socialists have always defended the need for a european turkey. we thought that would be a good thing and that we could find common ground. it would be good for europe, it would be good for turkey, it would be good for that whole region of the world that is so important for our stability. but that also requires the turkish government to play its part and to dispel any doubts, any doubts that may be raised about its willingness to undertake democratic reforms, and lately it is generating a great deal of doubt. every crime must be condemned, but within the framework of the rule of law, and we will have to follow very closely the actions of the erdoğan government. we need a european turkey, but we have the impression that turkey is moving away from europe.
madam president, exactly one year ago today, a very serious case of high-level corruption emerged in turkey. a few days ago, hours after the new security law was passed in the turkish parliament, a massive police operation was launched against a very specific media group and against former police officers. it is clear evidence of the will of the turkish presidency to control society completely. europe must take a clear stand. but we must distinguish between the general interest of turkish society and the actions of its institutions, which are totally incompatible with any real progress in the negotiations with the european union, the success of which we also want. to this end, and on the basis of a clear criterion of friendship with turkey, we propose: firstly, to ask the turkish minister for the european union to appear immediately before the joint parliamentary committee to counter information on these facts; secondly, to hold accession talks including - why not - the opening of the critical chapters 23 and 24 to express, precisely in this scenario, the strongest demand for respect for the rules and criteria in force in the treaties of the european union.
madam president, respect for fundamental freedoms and individual rights has deteriorated in turkey, especially in the last two years, and the latest episode with journalists 'last week' is just one more case. another case in a situation in the turkish state where corruption is not being dealt with in a reasonable way by the judiciary - a judiciary that we increasingly doubt is independent - where press freedom is being attacked day after day, and where, in addition, we see, by some political leaders, that freedom of association and political freedom are also being attacked. in the face of that, what should we do? the european union must condemn the events of the past week. we must use a proactive attitude, not with the government, but with our ability to influence what happens in the future of turkey. that is our obligation, not to the government, but to the citizens of turkey.
president of the council. - madam president, i thank the honourable members who have spoken and participated in this debate, also for the relevance of the speeches and arguments and for the concerns expressed which i believe are to a large extent absolutely common concerns. it was appropriate to take this opportunity to acknowledge the serious concerns about the latest events in order to formulate an unambiguous position and to convey it with absolute clarity and consistency to our turkish partners. we must continue to monitor the situation with the utmost care. the european union must continue to promote freedom of expression, opinion, assembly and association, both online and offline, because a democracy cannot exist without these rights. turkey is a privileged partner with whom we are negotiating accession; and we can and must communicate with her frankly. as president schulz said, the relationship with the applicant countries must be honest and open. i would just like to take up the point raised by the honourable member concerning funding, which is certainly one that deserves attention. the european union does not finance the turkish budget but mainly ngos and institutions promoting the rule of law and human rights, mainly through two instruments, namely the pre-accession instrument and the european instrument on human rights. the commission is looking at how to make this form of assistance more effective and i would point out, among other things, that the per capita allocations to turkey are still the lowest among the applicant countries. the enlargement framework is the right one for us to engage in the process of deepening and consolidating democratic reforms. further commitment in the context of chapter 3 would be an important encouragement. we have done a lot to intensify this engagement with turkey, a candidate country and a partner of the european union. we must continue along this road.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, let me first of all thank mr andrejs mamikins for his report, which contains many important recommendations and shows that we have a high degree of consensus on our policy with georgia. the european parliament’s strong support will be an important message for the reinforcement of our ties with georgia and it will create excellent conditions for closer cooperation with georgia. georgia is one of the frontrunners of the european union’s eastern partnership policy. the association agreement before you today is the result of georgia’s european aspirations. it is also the result of our determination to promote building a democratic, stable and prosperous country in a region that is of key strategic importance to us. georgia will transform itself as we implement our joint agenda. georgia will, as a result, move closer to the european union, deepening its political association and economic integration with the eu. georgia will introduce reforms that will build into its public life core european values such as a pluralist democracy and a deeper respect for due process and the rule of law. following the signature and the provisions of application of the agreement, we have had our first eu-georgia association council under the agreement exactly one month ago in brussels – the first step for the implementation of this agreement. on the same day we concluded that georgia meets the first phase requirements of the visa dialogue and that the second implementation phase of the action plan could be launched. this was yet another important step in the process that will bring georgia closer to its goal of a visa-free regime with the european union. it is difficult to say that georgia has made important progress in its democratic development following parliamentary and presidential elections in 2012 and 2013 as well as local elections in 2014. but this message was also given and was well received. the political climate in the country needs improving. political confrontation and polarisation should be avoided and space for opposition and cross-party dialogue needs to be ensured. in the same vein, georgia needs to continue efforts to reform the judiciary and ensure the rule of law. i am pleased to report that the provisional application of the deep and comprehensive free trade area of the association agreement since 1 december is already showing first results. trade statistics for september are positive and stable. the effect of the agreement is yet to be confirmed but the september 2014 figures indicate a 50% increase in imports from georgia into the european union, mainly in nuts and mineral products. the european union will further assist reforms in georgia and help small and medium enterprises adapt to the new regulatory framework with a eur 51 million programme under the annual action programme of this year. let me now turn to the most recent developments in the georgian breakaway regions, mainly the so-called strategic partnership treaty between the russian federation and the abkhazia de facto authorities. reports on a similar undertaking with the south ossetian de facto authorities are equally disconcerting. just like earlier agreements signed between the russian federation and abkhazia, this so-called treaty questions the sovereignty and integrity of georgia. it is also detrimental to ongoing efforts to stabilise the security situation in the region, and it does not contribute to de-escalation. it also contradicts principles of international law and commitments taken by the russian federation. let me reconfirm the european union’s unwavering support for georgia’s territorial integrity. we remain fully committed to supporting conflict resolution in georgia including through our co-chairmanship of the geneva international talks and our monitoring mission in georgia. let me also, again, underline our appreciation for georgia’s contribution to the european union’s mission in the central african republic on the basis of our framework agreement for georgia’s participation in the european union’s common security and defence policy missions. to conclude, let me say that the partnership between the european union and georgia is a strong one. it will become even stronger with the european parliament’s verification of our association agreement.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, this is a strategic, fundamental and important agreement, because we are saying several things. first of all, that georgia is europe. secondly, that as europe, it has the absolute right to decide what its national wishes, criteria and objectives are, including full association with the european union, in accordance with article 49 of our treaty. thirdly, it is not a complacent statement. it is not a statement in which the merits of the georgian state are simply determined. the european union is also calling for the release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody for more than two years. it is a resolution which establishes respect for peace, a fundamental issue which means respect for borders, and which consequently condemns any act which constitutes an attack on peace and security, specifically the invasions, or the alleged annexations, in this case of abkhazia, and the presence of south ossetia as a secessionist zone with russian presence. it is also something that is fundamental. it is not against anyone, it does not mean any contradiction with what are the legitimate interests of any country, and in this case - let us say it by its name - of a great country, which is russia, which has to be more than a great neighbor: it has to be a great friend too, a great friend of europe. because russia is also europe. and so this is another building block for european unity and is directed towards peace, not towards contradiction against anyone.
mr president, the european signatories who have committed themselves to launching the khartoum process, especially those who are living the drama of the floods and the tragedy of the mediterranean from afar, must assume that the problem is everyone's. i hope that the meeting in rome on 28 november will help the home affairs commissioner and mrs mogherini to articulate a common immigration policy based on solidarity, collaboration and loyalty. the 38 countries involved, including african countries, agree on obvious issues such as cooperation and development, collaboration with the governments of the region, pacification, stabilization and democratization, and only in this way will we achieve something more than shifting the drama from the mediterranean waters to the shores of north africa. but i think we can do more. denis mukgewe, our sakharov prize winner, explained to us here clearly what drives so many people to leave their homes. often wars are caused by business that seem to depend on the will of a tyrant with whom one must negotiate. president roosevelt, speaking of anastasio somoza, said, "he may be a"... it's not going to be politically correct for me to say what he said; let's just say he said he was a tyrant, but he was "our tyrant". and let us be ashamed of the photos of some of our leaders with recognized tyrants. let's make a list of the beneficiaries of "our tyrants" and prevent any business that can cause so much blood and desolation. that way we'll be credible, because "even if the tyrant is dressed in silk, tyrant remains".
mr president, mr commissioner, the khartoum process has led to tragic events which we periodically deplore, also in this parliament. the lampedusa incident, which left almost 400 dead, and the subsequent call for urgent dialogue and cooperation with countries that are the source, receiver or transit point of this tragic smuggling of human beings, with such tragic consequences. the aim must be to maintain the horn of africa, but we must not lose sight of the fact that when we talk about eritrea, somalia and ethiopia, we are talking about countries which are often home to failed states, with no responsible administration, with no guarantee of respect for fundamental rights. in the endeavour to establish this avenue of cooperation, it is therefore absolutely essential that the european union continue to respect its own standards of respect for fundamental rights. preventing human trafficking, is that it? - prevent the smuggling? keep the dialogue process alive? but with the strongest demand that every euro invested in the financing mechanisms, in the redress of these enormous injustices, means a step forward in guaranteeing respect for the fundamental rights, especially of the most vulnerable people: women and minors brought into these illicit trafficking, with such tragic consequences, that we have deplored, time and again, in this european parliament.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i firmly believe that it is essential to establish a continuous and balanced dialogue with the countries of the horn of africa. the question is not whether we should cooperate with these countries, but how we can do so to avoid migrants falling victim to the networks that facilitate their illegal entry into europe by sea. the khartoum process is only one element of a global strategy. i share your concerns about the objectives of this initiative. however, i want to make it clear that our policy does not legitimize regimes in the region: the aim is to engage states and make them face up to their responsibilities to save lives and fight those responsible for human trafficking. they must keep their word and their commitments. i assure you we will be following this process closely. on the other hand, one of my priorities is to strengthen the links between the internal and external policies of the european union, in order to deal, in a coherent and comprehensive way, with the migratory pressures we are facing. i want to develop this point in the european agenda on migration which was launched yesterday as part of the commission's work programme for 2015. there is also no doubt that we must offer safer solutions to people who need international protection to reach europe. the commission is currently exploring all possibilities, including the development of a common approach to the issuing of humanitarian visas for refugees to come to europe and seek asylum. at the moment, the relocation of refugees is the main way to enter europe legally. this is an act of solidarity which the commission encourages, because for every refugee welcomed into europe, a life is saved. i am pleased that the total number of places offered by the member states has increased this year. regional development and protection programmes are the other instrument at our disposal. in this context, the european union is supporting african countries to ensure that they receive refugees in the best possible conditions. in any case, as i said earlier, we will be following closely the development of this process and the application of its terms.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank those of you who have spoken and who have had the opportunity, for which the presidency is grateful, to express your assessments and also your concerns about the implementation of the khartoum process. i wanted to return to a theme that has been raised in several speeches, namely the objectives and risks of human rights. the khartoum process is designed to develop technical cooperation with the authorities of the countries of east africa and the horn of africa and, as the commissioner has said, it is certainly not and does not want to be an endorsement of the regimes of those countries, but technical cooperation, focusing at this stage on two issues: human trafficking and migrant smuggling. there is no doubt that we must make every effort to try to save the lives of migrants who face the perilous journeys across the mediterranean. in order to achieve this, our priority should be to act to prevent and stop the horrific crime of human trafficking and to combat the smuggling of migrants. that's the goal. in developing and implementing such cooperation, which could be extended to other areas, in line with the global approach to migration and mobility, the european union will be consistent with the fundamental principle of full respect for the rights of migrants, which is at the heart of the european union's migration policy. i believe that facilitating contacts with the authorities of a number of countries with which the european union and the member states have not been able to establish a dialogue so far could have a positive impact on raising awareness in those countries about the promotion and respect of human rights. another point to be stressed is that the declaration repeatedly and unequivocally reiterates the need for full respect for the principles of international protection. it highlights the importance of offering protection to refugees, asylum seekers and assistance to migrants in vulnerable situations. it also stresses the need to ensure effective protection for refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced persons and to provide for due access to asylum procedures, in line with international law. i have heard many concerns expressed, to which the presidency is far from insensitive, but i reiterate what the objective is and i reiterate that the protection of the human rights of migrants is central to this objective. the presidency believes that this is a valid initiative which must be followed up and in doing so, of course, the principles set out in the rome declaration must be fully respected. for the success of the initiative and also to avoid the risks that have been feared, i believe that the support of the institutions of the european union, as well as the active participation of the member states, is essential and i would like to stress that this parliament has an important role to play and i would like to assure you that you will be kept informed of developments in the process.
the first point is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the persecution of the democratic opposition in venezuela [2014/2998 (rsp) ].
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have old affections, old historical ties and feelings between our two peoples that will never go away. but things have gone too far. the fact that four major political groups - the largest in the house - have agreed to a resolution that is so forceful in terms of disqualifying a political action such as that of president maduro in relation to the persecution of the opposition, the fact that the united nations committee against torture has issued a clear and unambiguous disqualification that there is no freedom of expression, that there is no independence of the judiciary, that there are concrete tortures ... all of that indicates, of course, that these are not just words. we wonder how long mr. maduro will abuse our patience and how long he will believe that he has legitimacy, even though he was democratically elected, to disqualify and insult a democratic president like president aznar, calling him a "coup leader" or saying other things, this epigone of a coup leader, who was and had to be pardoned! we wish venezuela the greatest prosperity; we wish the people of venezuela a peaceful democratic path and a path where we can, together with europe, contribute to that better future.
author. - mr president, this resolution comes at the right time. today i can proudly say that the european parliament has risen to the occasion and, at a historic moment, has been able to respond forcefully to the demands of the democratic opposition in venezuela. however, despite the importance and forcefulness of the text we voted on today, we cannot fall into the error of thinking that we have already done all we could. on the basis of this resolution, we must, we will work with greater determination if possible to ensure that the venezuelan government rectifies and stops, once and for all, the systematic violations of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of political opponents. but if that correction does not take place, i can assure you on behalf of the alde group that we will examine all the possibilities for that government to change its behaviour.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this resolution is an example of the political use of human rights against the people, against the democratically chosen course in venezuela. everything has been tried: coup d'état, oil sabotage, economic war and media war. and now the violence. are these your peaceful students? here i see a long gun. here i see a weapon of war. here i see a mortar fire. (the speaker has shown various photographs. what would those who are going to vote for this resolution say if a hooded man killed a law enforcement officer in their country? eleven have been killed in venezuela! in spain, the popular party has passed, against all opposition, a law restricting protest but, for venezuela, the "law of the funnel". whatever they do, whatever lies they use, they will not be able to change the sovereign course democratically chosen by the venezuelan people. (applause) i would like to thank
blue card question. what is it? mr president, i just wanted to add one thing and make it clear that the work we are doing from parliament in relation to venezuela is important. it is quite decisive in the sense that we are joining forces, but we are not yet putting enough emphasis on something that is important, which is the acknowledged political persecution. the question is: mr assis, are we going to insist that the european union and the countries of the european union, such as belgium, which have recognized venezuelans as political asylum seekers, force the union to recognize precisely this political persecution?
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i have to say that what we are witnessing is a misuse of article 135, because here the aim is not to prosecute a possible violation of human rights, but to make a general case against a democratically elected government: because i do not know how many resolutions on venezuela this parliament has made. here are some members who are able to applaud with their ears the collaboration of the european union with totalitarian regimes and who have a fixation with venezuela because of the political colour of its government. if there is any kind of human rights violation in venezuela, it should be treated with the same standard we do in many other cases, and this is not the case. what is there is a rage and a general cause and i cannot agree and my group does not agree with that. with which, what i have to say is that i deeply regret, again, this exercise of hypocrisy. we have not wanted to take part in the debate or in the amendments because we do not agree that this resolution should be tabled. and i can of course announce that we will vote against it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mr. karski, the cases we have to deal with, we can deal with. but all i am saying is that i demand the same measuring stick we use for other countries. and the text is a general cause: a clear general cause against a democratically elected government. the next time, if there is a specific case, bring the specific case and we discuss it, but just as you do with other countries. i think there are already eight resolutions in the case of venezuela: it is a racial outrage against a government because they do not like its political colour. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? mr urtasun, does it seem reasonable to you that the rapporteur of the un human rights committee, the rapporteur of the un committee against torture, the rapporteur of the un working group on arbitrary detention... that venezuela's extraordinary and significant absence and departure from the inter-american court of human rights signifies fear on the part of venezuela and, secondly, a real reality that must be condemned? and i'll tell you something else. look, i apply that to all places where human rights violations occur. what i do not understand is that you refrain from condemning the condemnable, because you think that others do not condemn what is also condemnable.
the answer is 'blue card'. javier, it's not that. i will always condemn human rights violations wherever necessary. i've been involved in human rights associations for many years. it's not that, javier. this is a general cause. and you and i were not here in the last legislature, but there were a lot of resolutions on venezuela, because there are deputies in this house who want to enrage. it's not that, i don't agree.
mr president, apart from the errors in the drafting of the resolution, and particularly the partiality of some of its paragraphs, the truth is that all the political and social actors in venezuela must be involved in a constructive dialogue, which means the cessation of all violence and the initiation of a dialogue that puts peace and allows the expression of the right of assembly and demonstration without any violence. but the venezuelan authorities must cease their arbitrary arrests. the case of leopoldo lópez, who has been in prison for ten months following a detention which has been described as arbitrary by the un committee against torture, the un working group on arbitrary detention and the un human rights committee, is noteworthy. it is therefore essential to put an end to the de-judicialization of justice in venezuela, which keeps someone in a military prison for a cause that should not be subject to military jurisdiction. i conclude by quoting moisés naím, who in his article "postcards from venezuela" said that the real conflict that divides venezuela at the moment is not the one that confronts the defenders of capitalism with the defenders of socialism, but those who defend violence as a political tool and the arbitrary persecution of opponents and those who are willing to sacrifice themselves to prevent it.
mr. president, the situation in venezuela is an international emergency. the maduro government, a continuation of hugo chávez, remains a dictatorial and caudillo government whose objectives are to crush the opposition, trample on human rights, shelter terrorists, end press freedom and destroy the venezuelan people by oppressing and impoverishing them. the republic of venezuela is, in fact, a republic of horrors, where those who do not think as maduro wants are persecuted, condemned and imprisoned. media are persecuted and closed down for not dancing to the sound that marks and orders the chavista communist doctrine. the venezuelan people are under-supplied, they are persecuted and they are subjected to the fear of the chavista ultras. it is no longer time for words, but for action, and from the european institutions, we must demand that the government of venezuela stop its escalation of anti-democratic repression that it has set in motion. i am sure that one day soon, mr president, venezuela will emerge from this horrible chavista nightmare and become a truly democratic country, full of freedoms. and we in the european people's party will work to make this a reality. and i regret that those who defend the chavista government of venezuela from spain, such as mr pablo iglesias and those from podemos, have had the cowardice not to come to this plenary to debate and have been absent: they are not here and they do not speak, they do not say anything at all.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is bound to venezuela by deep historical ties. as a leading player in regional integration in latin america, venezuela has the potential to contribute to the region's economic growth and prosperity, or at least, it would have the potential. however, the worsening tensions and political polarization in the country are of deep concern. 2014 was a turbulent year that brought pro- and anti-government protesters to the streets. the european union has expressed its concern about the increasing polarization and the increase in violent incidents in a series of statements since february. we have expressed our concern about the imprisonment of students and politicians and appealed to the government and opposition leaders, students and civil society in the country to work side by side to find a consensual solution. we have called on all parties to engage in political dialogue and condemn the violence. it is worrying to see that no progress has been made towards much needed reconciliation. the conflict scenarios that are also expected in the future are worrying. the european union had expressed appreciation to president maduro for the commitment he made in his 2013 inaugural address on building an inclusive nation. but the current tensions in the country remind us that venezuela is far from overcoming its internal divisions. it is a complex situation that calls for the government and opposition parties to come together to find a way out. only an inclusive approach will allow the necessary decisions to be taken. we urge the government that won the 2013 elections to take the lead in bringing the country back to unity and find a compromise solution. venezuela faces not only political problems but also serious economic, social and security problems: a spiraling inflation, a growing shortage of basic consumer goods, civil tensions and record levels of crime and insecurity. the sharp drop in world oil prices is also expected to further aggravate the situation and have a significant impact on the country's ability to meet its 2015 targets. recently, president maduro announced a series of cuts in public spending. as the political crisis drags on, the government risks failing to find the necessary public consensus in support of the anti-crisis measures. the role of venezuela in the region could also be affected, as the secretary-general of unasur, ernesto samper, recently recalled in a speech in brasilia. parliament's resolution rightly recalls the situation of the protest leaders, including students, opposition politicians and all those who are arbitrarily detained. the venezuelan authorities have a duty to ensure prompt and impartial investigations and to verify the allegations in full compliance with the law. it is worrying that a number of legal proceedings are still being delayed. we will continue to follow closely the case of political opponents such as leopoldo lopez and the four students interrogated at the same time. the european union is ready to step up relations with venezuela both at regional and bilateral level. it is in the name of genuine and heartfelt friendship that we remind venezuela that stability and progress can only be achieved through an inclusive dialogue based on respect for human rights and freedom of expression. dialogue is the only way to ensure reconciliation across the political spectrum.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
in writing. the serious disturbances of recent months and the current political situation in the country call for european condemnation and an appeal to the government of venezuela to comply with the universal laws of democracy and guarantee the application of fundamental human rights. however, i would like to stress that in my view the resolution which is expected to be adopted this morning does not exactly reflect my interpretation of what is happening in venezuela and is not balanced in terms of the demands this parliament must make on all venezuelan political actors. in this sense, i think that the recitals lack a more explicit reference to the responsibilities of the organisers of the demonstrations for the peaceful development of the demonstrations and that it is necessary to call on all opposition groups in venezuela to exercise their legitimate right to political opposition in a peaceful manner, always and everywhere.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on mauritania, in particular the biram dah abeid case [2014/2999 (rsp) ].
author. - mr president, article 4 of the universal declaration of human rights, which we have just commemorated, prohibits all forms of slavery. now, 66 years later, 21 million people are victims of forced labour worldwide - 4.5 million of them victims of forced sexual exploitation. we also have to point out the neoliberal policies that we are experiencing as a threat to human rights also to article 4 around the world, including the european union. we therefore believe that we cannot look the other way and that, in addition to demanding the release of biram dah abeid from mauritania, we must demand the abolition and the end of slavery, as well as measures to oblige the states and the european union to force multinationals to respect human rights throughout the world.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the european parliament's urgent resolution on the human rights situation in mauritania, which is closely linked to the case of biram dah abei and other members of his organisation, the ira. we are familiar with the case of biram, a mauritanian human rights defender and anti-slavery activist, who was arrested several times for his beliefs and actions and accused of apostasy in 2012. biram is the president of the ira, the initiative for the revival of the anti-slavery abolitionist movement, an activity that has earned him numerous international tributes in the field of human rights. as a politician, he also ran in the last presidential elections last june. biram was arrested along with other ira members at an unauthorised rally, charged with disturbing the peace, insulting the authorities and belonging to an unrecognised organisation. according to its organizers, the rally was held to denounce the lack of respect for the traditional land rights of mauritanian people, mostly black, in the south of the country, near the border with senegal. at the same time, the mauritanian authorities state that biram is now in the hands of the judges, subject to judicial proceedings. we're very concerned about these latest arrests. through our delegation in mauritania, we are in regular contact with biram's organisation, we are kept informed of his situation in prison and the progress of the judicial proceedings. we take every opportunity to talk to the authorities about this. the european union's ambassadors in mauritania raised biram's case with the prime minister immediately after his arrest and further discussions took place on 15 december in the framework of the political dialogue provided for in the cotonou agreement. the european union reiterated the need to fully respect the rule of law and the rights of the burmese people and stressed that equality and non-discrimination for all ethnic and racial communities are key factors for the unity and stability of the country. the european union will continue to follow the biram dah abei case very closely; we will also continue to engage with the authorities and civil society to ensure that he is treated fairly and impartially. if the situation develops to the extent that it requires, we will not hesitate to take further action. we've been informed that the trial may take place today. the european union delegation in the field is following developments and will be closely monitoring the process, which in any case should take place as soon as possible. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has entered into a regular dialogue with mauritania on the question of human rights. we are also supporting the government in its efforts to strengthen institutions and bring legislation into line with human rights standards, but more needs to be done. in march 2014, mauritania adopted a un-backed roadmap with a set of recommendations to eradicate slavery in all its forms. it also agreed to set up a special criminal court to deal with slavery cases. the european union is strongly encouraging the government to continue the implementation of the road map. in this endeavour we are working closely with the un office for human rights. we also organise regular meetings with human rights defenders, which allow us to get a more complete picture of the situation and to understand how they view the government's efforts. in this context, we would remind you that the european union is also financing three projects under the human rights and democracy programme in mauritania which benefits local ngos. but biram's case reminds us that much progress still needs to be made. i can assure you that in our dialogue and cooperation with mauritania, the question of human rights, including the problems of slavery and the practices still in existence and the case of biram dah abei and other cases which may arise in the future, will remain at the top of our agenda and will continue to be a priority of our diplomatic action.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on sudan: the case of amin mekki medani [2014/3000 rsp].
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the truth is that i have never had the feeling of speaking in a public square as i am doing now. i will not use my time summarizing the facts because they have already been widely exposed. amin mekki medani is a man who is, it seems, extremely dangerous: 76 years old; he suffers from medical problems, but he has been arrested along with others and others for wanting a better future for his people, for wanting that future in a peaceful way, for wanting that future from democratic values, for wanting that future from the values of citizenship which, as european union members, we share because they are also our values. it is dangerous to commit to working to bring an end to the conflicts that plague the different regions of sudan, and to the necessary legal, institutional and economic reforms. sudan is in a critical period in which political dialogue is very fragile, and so the figure of mr medani is now more necessary than ever. the european union should urge the government of sudan, as this resolution does, to ensure the peaceful exercise of freedoms of expression, association and assembly, human rights, and the immediate release of mr medani and the other activists.
i would like to welcome the delegation from the swiss parliament, led by kathy riklin, and including the vice-chairmen of the foreign affairs committee of the national council, roland rino büchel, and of the foreign affairs committee of the council of states, christian levrat. the swiss delegation took part this morning in the 33rd meeting of the european union-switzerland interparliamentary group and also had an excellent debate with its counterparts in the european parliament. we have to hope that this will help to resolve the current differences between the european union and switzerland.
we are resuming the debate on seven motions for resolutions on sudan: the case of amin mekki medani [2014/3000 rsp].
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the european parliament's initiative for an urgent resolution on the case of amin mekki medani, the president of the confederation of sudanese civil society organisations. arrested, as was mentioned several times during the debate, by sudanese security forces on 6 december 2014, amin mekki medani has since been held in solitary confinement and his arrest is part of the government's campaign against the so-called sudan call, the call for peace and democratic change that amin mekki medani signed, as a representative of sudanese civil society groups, on 3 december in addis ababa, along with other leaders of the main opposition parties and rebel movements. amin mekki medani is a person of great moral stature who fights helplessly as a lawyer and a leading civil society activist in defense of human rights in sudan and internationally. in 2013, the european union delegation awarded him the human rights award and actively involved him in its activities. we call on the sudanese government to release him and the other political prisoners immediately. the head of the union delegation in khartoum, who is in contact with the family, is discussing his case with the highest authorities. the arrest and imprisonment of amin mekki medani is not only against the sudanese law and constitution, it is a flagrant violation of freedom of expression. this is a violation that is also contrary to the objectives and principles of the national dialogue announced by the government in early 2014. it is clear that such a public debate on the foundations and policies of the state cannot succeed in the absence of a climate of freedom of expression for citizens and until the weapons are laid down. this is what the union's foreign ministers expect, as is clear from the conclusions of 20 october. the human rights situation in sudan continues to be a matter of deep concern: arbitrary arrests, intimidation and ill-treatment of political activists, human rights defenders and journalists severely restrict political space. media is being monitored and censored as the conflicts in darfur, south kordofan, blue nile region continue to inflict deep trauma and suffering, with indiscriminate aerial bombardment, scorched land, mass displacement, widespread violence against women and children and the denial of humanitarian access, all in total impunity. we call for an end to these conflicts and we find it worrying that the peace talks conducted by the african union group under the auspices of president mbeki were suspended last week without any result. i want to assure you that human rights and peace will continue to be our main concern in all contacts with the sudanese actors. mr president, i thank you for your attention and i take this opportunity, on behalf of the italian presidency, to wish you and all members of this house a very happy holiday and a very happy new year.
thank you very much, mr della vedova. we thank him for his commitment to the european union as the italian presidency. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time.
mr gollnisch, we don't mean to curtail anyone's freedom of speech, but this is a matter that is in the hands of the quaestors. then less populism and less opportunism. (different reactions) written declarations (rule 162)
madam president, we voted in favour of this resolution because we are living through the tragedy of migrants trying to reach europe via the mediterranean in a very dramatic way. i come from the valencian community, on the shores of the mediterranean, and in the coalition i represent there are comrades from andalusia, the balearic islands and also from ceuta and melilla, where this drama is being lived every day. we like the resolution because it recognizes the need to give a global approach to the immigration issue. not to the immigration problem, to the immigration issue. we like it because it takes on the responsibility of the european union for its policy in those countries from which this immigration originates and also because it highlights the need to examine our policy of cooperation. because only a policy of cooperation that really supports the countries from which these poor people come in trying to improve their quality of life, that really develops future possibilities in those countries will prevent the flow of this bloody immigration from continuing.
in writing. this parliament resolution calls for the system of generalised preferences not to be granted until the philippines has put an end to illegal fishing, trafficking of minors, etc. the eu grants gsp+ to third countries on the condition that they ratify and comply with 27 international conventions, some of which the philippines is not complying with. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it calls for the gsp+ system not to be granted until guarantees are given by the philippines.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl group and the alternative resolution i signed on granting the application of the tariff preferences system to the philippines, as this country has received a 'yellow card' from the european commission in relation to illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i agree that the philippines should not be granted gsp+ status until the commission cancels its notification of the philippines as a third country that could be considered as non-cooperative in the fight against iuu fishing.
in writing. - i have supported the postponement of the granting of gsp+ to the philippines in view of the reports being made to consider the philippines as a non-cooperating country in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and the impact that the granting of this preferential access system would have on the competitiveness and future viability of the eu tuna processing and canning industry and, in particular, of galicia, europe's leading fishing region. amnesty international also denounced on 4 december the continued use of torture and abuse by the police forces which goes against the requirements of the spg+ despite the country's efforts to combat it. the report details harassment and torture practices and the impunity enjoyed by those who commit them. it estimates nearly half a thousand cases since 2001, 75 in the last year (2013), although the country's human rights commission acknowledges that the number of unreported cases would actually be much higher. i ask that decisions not be taken hastily and without all the guarantees, preventing european industry from being able to compete on equal terms.
in writing. this parliament resolution calls for the system of generalised preferences not to be granted until the philippines has put an end to illegal fishing, trafficking of minors, etc. the eu grants gsp+ to third countries on the condition that they ratify and comply with 27 international conventions, some of which the philippines is not complying with. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it calls for the gsp+ system not to be granted until guarantees are given by the philippines.
in writing. this parliament resolution calls for the system of generalised preferences not to be granted until the philippines has put an end to illegal fishing, trafficking of minors, etc. the eu grants gsp+ to third countries on the condition that they ratify and comply with 27 international conventions, some of which the philippines is not complying with. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it calls for the gsp+ system not to be granted until guarantees are given by the philippines.
in writing. i have voted against this resolution objecting to the granting of gsp+ status to the philippines. the philippines, currently a beneficiary of the generalised system of preferences, has formally requested gsp+ treatment from the eu and meets the eligibility criteria set out in general terms in eu regulation no 978/2012. however, the parliamentary handling of this concession comes at a time when the commission's dg mare has opened a file and issued an ultimatum to the philippines, by means of a 'yellow card', for illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing practices. this regrettable situation of lack of coordination of policy actions by the commission entails the risk that, from the approval of the gsp+ to the possible ban on imports of fishery products from the philippines, products obtained through illegal fishing practices will be imported into the eu duty free. if the philippines is confirmed as being guilty of illegal fishing with a 'red card', the european commission will have to assess the damage caused to european producers during the period of application of the gsp+ and fair compensation.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution by parliament calls for the system of generalized preferences not to be granted until the philippines has put an end to illegal fishing, trafficking of minors, etc. the eu grants gsp+ to third countries on the condition that they ratify and comply with 27 international conventions, some of which the philippines is not complying with. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it calls for the gsp+ system not to be granted until guarantees are given by the philippines.
in writing. i have voted in favour of this recommendation for a european parliament decision, submitted in accordance with article 105 (6) of the regulation, not to raise objections to the commission delegated regulation of 21 october 2014 supplementing directive 2014/59/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 15 may 2014 with regard to ex ante contributions to the resolution financing arrangements (c2014) 07674 2014/2923 (dea)). i consider, as expressed in the recommendation itself, that the agreement in the council on the implementing regulation specifying uniform conditions for the application of regulation (eu) no 806/2014 of the european parliament and of the council as regards ex ante contributions to the single resolution fund, reached following the informal involvement of parliament, is consistent with the aforementioned delegated regulation, among other factors also expressed in this recommendation.
in writing. i voted against this report which approves the conclusion of an association agreement with georgia, which means the creation of a large free trade area between the eu and georgia. i have always voted against the creation of free trade areas between the eu and third countries, because i believe that these always benefit large companies and european big capital, to the detriment of local production in third countries. in this case, it couldn't be otherwise. it has also become clear that in the case of georgia the intention is to bring the country closer to the eu and nato and to remove it as far as possible from the influence of russia, which means interference in georgia's internal affairs. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. i support this motion for a resolution, which accompanies the recommendation on the association agreement with georgia, in which, among other issues, we welcome the progress made in abkhazia and south ossetia, as well as in relations with russia.
in writing. in short, the s&d group supports the association agreement with georgia as a tool for further democratisation and european integration. the reform of the judicial system to bring it into line with eu standards must be a priority for the georgian government. the group also strongly supports the territorial integrity of georgia and welcomes the steps taken by the government to improve dialogue with russia.
in writing. i voted against this report which approves the conclusion of an association agreement with georgia, which means the creation of a large free trade area between the eu and georgia. i have always voted against the creation of free trade areas between the eu and third countries, because i believe that these always benefit large companies and european big capital, to the detriment of local production in third countries. in this case, it couldn't be otherwise. it has also become clear that in the case of georgia the intention is to bring the country closer to the eu and nato and to remove it as far as possible from the influence of russia, which means interference in georgia's internal affairs. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. - we abstained on the vote on the eu-georgia association agreement for the following reasons. we respect the decision of the georgian people, who have shown their support for the european project, and we are in favour of the eu fostering cooperation ties with neighbouring countries. however, we are critical of the content of the agreement, which, among other things, imposes on georgia a gradual process of adaptation to the european framework without clear financial support and without the right to participate in the political process that could lead to its future full membership of the eu. the resolution also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism.
in writing. - we abstained on the vote on the eu-georgia association agreement for the following reasons. we respect the decision of the georgian people, who have shown their support for the european project, and we are in favour of the eu fostering cooperation ties with neighbouring countries. however, we are critical of the content of the agreement, which, among other things, imposes on georgia a gradual process of adaptation to the european framework without clear financial support and without the right to participate in the political process that could lead to its future full membership of the eu. the resolution also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism.
in writing. i voted against this report which approves the conclusion of an association agreement with georgia, which means the creation of a large free trade area between the eu and georgia. i have always voted against the creation of free trade areas between the eu and third countries, because i believe that these always benefit large companies and european big capital, to the detriment of local production in third countries. in this case, it couldn't be otherwise. it has also become clear that in the case of georgia the intention is to bring the country closer to the eu and nato and to remove it as far as possible from the influence of russia, which means interference in georgia's internal affairs. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. i support this resolution which accompanies the recommendation on the association agreement with georgia and in which we welcome the progress made in abkhazia and south ossetia as well as in relations with russia.
in writing. - we abstained on the vote on the eu-georgia association agreement for the following reasons. we respect the decision of the georgian people, who have shown their support for the european project, and we are in favour of the eu fostering cooperation ties with neighbouring countries. however, we are critical of the content of the agreement, which, among other things, imposes on georgia a gradual process of adaptation to the european framework without clear financial support and without the right to participate in the political process that could lead to its future full membership of the eu. the resolution also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism.
in writing. - we abstained on the vote on the eu-georgia association agreement for the following reasons. we respect the decision of the georgian people, who have shown their support for the european project, and we are in favour of the eu fostering cooperation ties with neighbouring countries. however, we are critical of the content of the agreement, which, among other things, imposes on georgia a gradual process of adaptation to the european framework without clear financial support and without the right to participate in the political process that could lead to its future full membership of the eu. the resolution also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism.
in writing. - i voted against this report which approves the conclusion of an association agreement with georgia, which means the creation of a large free trade area between the eu and georgia. i have always voted against the creation of free trade areas between the eu and third countries, because i believe that these always benefit large companies and european big capital, to the detriment of local production in third countries. in this case, it couldn't be otherwise. it has also become clear that in the case of georgia the intention is to bring the country closer to the eu and nato and to remove it as far as possible from the influence of russia, which means interference in georgia's internal affairs. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted against this report which approves the conclusion of an association agreement with georgia, which means the creation of a large free trade area between the eu and georgia. i have always voted against the creation of free trade areas between the eu and third countries, because i believe that these always benefit large companies and european big capital, to the detriment of local production in third countries. in this case, it couldn't be otherwise. it has also become clear that in the case of georgia the intention is to bring the country closer to the eu and nato and to remove it as far as possible from the influence of russia, which means interference in georgia's internal affairs. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. the agreement with georgia is the third in a new series of association agreements, after those signed with ukraine and moldova, which must be ratified by parliament. i have given my assent to the association agreement between the european union and georgia which will lead to greater political association and economic integration between the two parties, including the progressive opening up of their respective markets.
in writing. i voted against this report which approves the conclusion of an association agreement with georgia, which means the creation of a large free trade area between the eu and georgia. i have always voted against the creation of free trade areas between the eu and third countries, because i believe that these always benefit large companies and european big capital, to the detriment of local production in third countries. in this case, it couldn't be otherwise. it has also become clear that in the case of georgia the intention is to bring the country closer to the eu and nato and to remove it as far as possible from the influence of russia, which means interference in georgia's internal affairs. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted against this report which approves the conclusion of an association agreement with georgia, which means the creation of a large free trade area between the eu and georgia. i have always voted against the creation of free trade areas between the eu and third countries, because i believe that these always benefit large companies and european big capital, to the detriment of local production in third countries. in this case, it couldn't be otherwise. it has also become clear that in the case of georgia the intention is to bring the country closer to the eu and nato and to remove it as far as possible from the influence of russia, which means interference in georgia's internal affairs. i have therefore voted against.
in writing. the agreement with georgia is the third in a new series of association agreements, after those signed with ukraine and moldova, which must be ratified by parliament. i have given my approval to the association agreement between the european union and georgia, as it will lead to greater political association and economic integration between the two parties, leading to the progressive opening up of their respective markets.
in writing. - i voted against this report which approves the conclusion of an association agreement with georgia, which means the creation of a large free trade area between the eu and georgia. i have always voted against the creation of free trade areas between the eu and third countries, because i believe that these always benefit large companies and european big capital, to the detriment of local production in third countries. in this case, it couldn't be otherwise. it has also become clear that in the case of georgia the intention is to bring the country closer to the eu and nato and to remove it as far as possible from the influence of russia, which means interference in georgia's internal affairs. i have therefore voted against.
