mr president, may i congratulate lithuania on the success they have clearly deserved. it was not only the first lithuanian, but also the first baltic presidency, and may i add that this was a combined success of all the pro-european forces in the country, prepared too by the previous kubilius government. last year resulted in a compromise on the mff. this was in fact good teamwork by two presidencies, with ireland preparing an agreement on substance and lithuania successfully finalising it. the vilnius summit was well prepared by its host. while the main hopes were not formally met, the eastern partnership’s validity has been confirmed by the ukrainian people’s inspiring verdict in favour of their european future. as the president-in-office said, ukraine will never be the same again. it was also a realistic assessment of russia’s policies. the kremlin’s vigorous and hostile opposition to the expansion of the rule of law and citizens’ rights area in europe shows that mr putin views the eu not as a partner but as a strategic rival. what we need now is an even stronger commitment to the six nations of the eastern partnership, beginning with the visa liberalisation that lithuania has started. under the lithuanian presidency a mandate was given to start accession negotiations with serbia. this reminds us that the start of similar negotiations with macedonia is still in a demoralising impasse. i would appeal to the greek presidency to demonstrate statesmanship, generosity and loyalty to all european interests, to give all balkan applicants an equal chance and a solid perspective in the future. lastly, latvia has just joined the euro area. the next lithuanian presidency may be 14 years away, but there is hope that, next year, lithuania will become the 19th member of the euro area. i wish you every success and i thank you.
mr president, madam president-in-office, i am very proud of the lithuanian presidency, because lithuania is our neighbour in the baltic countries, and i hope that estonia, my country, will take a lesson from your presidency’s experience. however, i believe that the success of each presidency is comprehensively connected with the political will and determination of the council members. outcomes must be put in the context of the objective possibilities that are open to each country during its presidency. in the field of foreign policy, hopes were high for the vilnius summit. the failure to sign the association agreement with ukraine was not the fault of the presidency but rather was due to the shortcomings of long-term enlargement policy and to ukraine’s selfish leadership. nevertheless, the success achieved with moldova and georgia should not be underestimated, and hopefully the council will continue at full speed with the signing of both these agreements before the end of the current parliamentary term. signing a cooperation agreement with azerbaijan is also a very important step forward. i would also like to welcome the progress made with the single supervisory and single resolution mechanisms. a fully integrated banking union will ensure that, in future, banks will bear the cost of their own mistakes rather than have taxpayers foot the bill. the banks will be better regulated and supervised. with many different opinions on how to achieve that, the success of the lithuanian presidency in proceeding with this proposal has to be acknowledged. finally, i would like to highlight the progress made with the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement with the usa. we all know that completion of this agreement will bring significant financial benefits to both sides. i hope the greek presidency will continue with the same relentless effort to ensure that the negotiations are concluded successfully.
in writing. i congratulate lithuania on the successful completion of its presidency and i admit that i was not surprised that lithuania was able to succeed during this period. lithuania is the first of the three baltic states to have the opportunity to exercise its presidency, and the bar is set high for estonia and latvia. the lithuanian presidency will be marked by two important events, one of which is the new seven-year financial period and the successful compromise reached in this context. lithuania's role as chair was crucial in the final decision-making process. it was vital for the eu's stability that these compromises were reached. the specific issue that lithuania had to deal with was the eastern partnership. i believe that lithuania has reached its maximum here as well. i would like to quote what president grybauskaitė of lithuania said in her speech: ukraine will never be the same again.
in writing. − the objectives of the consumer protection programme are welcome and the programmes and measures to achieve them are appropriate. surely we must keep up with the times and take advantage of the opportunities that modern technology affords us. estonia is known as an it country and we particularly welcome the possibilities of various online platforms and software tools that facilitate interaction between consumer and producer in the market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the increased challenges in the provision of efficient, quality healthcare require a european answer. developing and implementing a functioning cross-border e-health system in the eu would bring relief in providing timely, quality services. growing mobility within countries and, especially, cross-border mobility pose new healthcare challenges that require new and innovative solutions. interoperability and standardisation are the two main areas to work on in the coming years, and coordination and close cooperation will be needed here at all levels, especially among member states. the issues of training health professionals, research, and legal and data protection also need to be tackled. as for technical solutions, we should learn from best practices. my own country, estonia, has an e-health system that has been functioning well for several years, accompanied by an e-receipts service. together they make for mobility and availability. such systems may also offer clever technical solutions at european level.
in writing. − given the deterioration in access to healthcare in sparsely populated areas, the ageing of the population, the free movement of people and the shortage of doctors and healthcare professionals, the implementation of ehealth is an effective 21st century tool for improving the quality and efficiency of healthcare. for this reason, i also supported this own-initiative report, which recommends moving towards a wider implementation of ehealth. e-health is proving to be a widely used and effective system, as evidenced by the steady growth in the global telemedicine market nearly 19% per year. the creation and implementation of a single and well-functioning european ehealth system obviously requires good cooperation between healthcare providers, transcending their language and competence boundaries and centred on patient safety. the system should be designed taking into account the proposals of doctors and healthcare professionals as well as patient associations. in order to ensure patient trust in ehealth, privacy, i.e. effective data protection, must be ensured above all.
in writing. - the loss of confidence in the whole food chain and in its control is extremely regrettable. the european union and its member states have been building trust for years - without it, we cannot implement the common market. the recent food scandals call for action to tackle food fraud, and this is why this resolution is of the utmost importance. food fraud needs to be defined in the relevant legal framework and the applicable sanctions need to be addressed. situations such as the so-called horse meat fraud must be excluded in the food chain. the european parliament must be a proactive force in defending the interests of european citizens. we must be the institution that restores citizens' faith in european quality and safety. i believe that this is an area in which further action will also be one of the most important points of the next parliament.
in writing. − in view of the decline in the quality of employment in europe, largely due to the increase in job insecurity due to subcontracting and the movement of labour to asian countries with cheaper labour, i supported this own-initiative report, which draws attention to this complex problem and proposes sensible solutions to improve the situation. i agree that in order to reduce the shadow economy and protect workers' rights, labour inspections must be strengthened and additional measures implemented to combat undeclared work across borders. i am in favour of the introduction of a european social security card with the necessary data, which would greatly simplify the work of labour inspectors, but i am sceptical about the creation of a new european body dealing with crossborder issues in the field of labour inspection. in my view, the new office would duplicate the work of the national supervisory authorities, would be costly and would not provide sufficient added value to meet the objectives set. i therefore believe that it is important to strengthen cooperation between the supervisory authorities of the member states by exchanging experience and data, including the implementation of the early warning system recommended by the rapporteur, which would allow the exchange of information in the event of fraud or illegal activities by undertakings.
in writing. − i supported the well-written own-initiative report by my lithuanian colleague, which draws attention to discrimination against self-employed workers in the field of social protection. the european union employs 32.8 million selfemployed people, accounting for 15% of total eu employment, and is a major contributor to reducing unemployment and increasing people's entrepreneurship. i therefore find it particularly regrettable that the self-employed person does not have the same social benefits as employees, for example, he does not receive unemployment benefits (except in some individual member states), he does not have appropriate parental leave and other related rights, his pension is low due to small contributions, etc. unfortunately, there is also no common, generally recognised definition of self-employed at eu level, and the situation is complicated by the diversity of activities falling under the category of fie. if we want to reduce the still high level of unemployment in europe and increase people's entrepreneurship in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, we must address this problem seriously by offering solutions, not by creating additional obstacles or hiding behind the 'impossible! ' view.
in writing. - the proposals on the environment are the ones most concerned with our future. environmental protection is a growing concern today and this proposal is another step in the right direction. i think the guidelines, which give clear recommendations to consumers to reduce their daily use of plastic packaging, are right. the ideas expressed in the resolution will certainly cause some controversy, but after a while they will be taken for granted and applied.
in writing. − i supported the proposal of the conference of presidents to change the responsibilities of the committees concerned, as i believe it is important for the european parliament to keep abreast of developments and to update its priorities in the work of the committees. however, as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i did not support the initial proposal by my colleagues to remove the reference to women's rights from the name of the commission, as otherwise the issues of importance to women would be neglected. for example, the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, to which the european union is a party, supports a separate approach to women's rights and gender equality, and the eu has separate priorities for its external action in the field of women's rights. it confirms that gender equality does not automatically mean addressing women's rights and vice versa. of course, gender equality is a very important priority, but i cannot ignore issues that concern only women, such as pregnancy, childbirth, etc. i am glad that my group colleagues and i reached a common understanding before the final vote and that the name change of the commission was not supported.
in writing. - dear director, my dear colleagues! i would like to thank silvia-adriana ţicău and all the other rapporteurs for the necessary and substantive report which i supported in today's sitting. the rapporteur has done a commendable job in improving the efficiency of the european union's transport system. according to the commission, a quarter of vehicles are in breach of eu tachograph rules, are being withheld from staff costs and do not comply with minimum rest periods. this means that our roads are filled with underpaid and overworked drivers who are a danger to themselves and to their fellow travelers. the digital tachograph is a necessary innovation that contributes to reducing unfair competition, improving working conditions and improving road safety on european roads. the increase in the reliability of workplaces, the introduction of satellite navigation systems and the harmonisation of systems are necessary measures which i fully support. the aim of this chamber is to protect law-abiding drivers and businesses by making the profession of professional driver easier and safer for all drivers in the european union, while ensuring the competitiveness of smes, which this report does very well.
in writing. - i supported this report, which approved three public procurement directives that make public procurement more transparent and fair. in order to ensure the sustainability of the companies participating in public procurement and thus of the economy, the price-quality ratio, rather than mere cheapness, must be assessed first. the estonian experience has shown that evaluation on the basis of the criterion of low cost alone has not produced the desired result, as quality suffers and the agreed deadlines cannot be met. the tenders are mostly won by large firms, which pay only a small part to subcontractors or often do not pay at all, causing many small firms to go bankrupt. i therefore consider it important that under this directive and the national public procurement law, the contracting authority is also allowed to pay for works directly to the subcontractor. in order to ensure transparency in the award of contracts, it is certainly necessary that the tenderer indicates in the tender which part of the contract it intends to subcontract and which undertakings. as a member of the european parliament's committee on women's rights and gender equality, i believe that gender equality should also be taken into account in the evaluation of public procurement and that preference should be given to the tenderer who best meets the objectives set to ensure gender equality among equal tenderers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the honey directive, which endorses the position of the european court of justice by legally classifying pollen from gmos as an ingredient of honey, rather than a natural constituent. according to the eu legislation, gmos are not natural, and thus not natural constituents of any food. gmos should therefore be seen as an ingredient of a food product, and this would automatically mean risk assessment, specific authorisation and labelling. i believe firmly that we need to support the beekeeping sector and the scope for it to produce gmo-free honey. also, we need to ensure that consumers have freedom of choice between honey containing gm ingredients and gmo-free honey. with the promotion of local and organic food products gathering momentum in europe and consumption of such products, as well as consumer awareness, increasing, the eu has to give consumers the option of local and gmo-free honey.
in writing. – freedom is the underlying principle of the eu represented by the main four freedoms – the free movement of people, goods, capital and services! we debate continuously on the need to accomplish the single market, which is fundamentally based on these four freedoms. so how can we even dream of a single market if the free movement of people is limited? abuse of social services is a general problem and common to all eu countries and cannot be attributed to one particular group anywhere. and it has a simple solution – adopting good laws that minimise any abuse, and then implementing them. true, all eu member states are free to set their obligations and benefits, and create a balance between those, but they cannot discriminate between eu citizens based on their nationality. reforming the social systems to fit the reality and aid efficiently those in need whilst enabling others fully enjoy a free european labour market and by that reducing the poverty lines across member states is what europe needs today. defamation of certain eu citizens and making them responsible for all misery, is irresponsible and in its essence anti-european. all eu citizens are equal and should be treated as such without concession.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to make three points as a contribution to this discussion. first, there is a certain irony in the fact that we have postponed the simple vote on this issue three times; hence we will decide today, in 2014, on the progress report for the year 2012, although it would be appropriate to decide something about last year – 2013 – particularly because 2013 saw a major change in our ‘business as usual’. icelanders voted for a new government, whose foreign minister, gunnar bragi sveinsson, has stated that iceland’s task force and negotiation teams have been dissolved and that there will be no further summits. this brings me to my second point: if the icelanders are not negotiating, why should we go on pretending that we are negotiating? we have a joint parliamentary committee, and there is still one meeting scheduled for this parliament. we will go to iceland to see all the icelanders, and it will be a nice, cosy moment. they are nice people and they have taken on board the acquis communautaire. i am sorry, but the fact is that they are not negotiating. in my opinion, such a situation is unbearable. either the icelandic government keeps its promise to call a referendum on the continuation of accession talks, or it finalises the talks and puts the result to a plebiscite. in my humble opinion, the latter would be the better option, but i certainly do not want to prescribe solutions for an independent democratic country. if the current status quo continues, however, i will strongly advise the leaders of the european parliament to reconsider the necessity for the very existence of the joint parliamentary committee. in a more liberal vein, i can wait for the new parliament to take that decision. to come to my third point: it has been a privilege to work with this very special and promising accession country, and i am sincerely grateful to all the colleagues involved, here in the chamber and in iceland. the people in iceland have expressed hesitation about the eu, and that tells us something not only about them but equally about ourselves. what has the european union become for even a small country with excellent democratic credentials – albeit with currency controls – to not want to join the european union? should we not look in the mirror and figure out whether we like what we see? last but not least, i know that iceland, and particularly its president, are very enthusiastic about promises and plans labelled ‘made in china’. my friendly advice to them would be to think a bit further. is it right to ignore your family when you meet an interesting business partner? i would stick to family.
in writing. – the situation in south sudan is worrying. hopes were high last year as a new country entered the stage but, alas, oil interests and disagreements got the best of peace prospects. there is little to be surprised over. if europe regards itself as a beacon of democracy, human rights and other values, at the same time selling warships to countries that bully and invade other smaller countries, then there really are no examples for other countries to aspire to. ceterum censeo, france has decided to sell a mistral-class warship to russia; we believe that it will sincerely regret its action.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution. eu citizenship is unique and precious: one of the great achievements of the european project. the rights gained through eu citizenship are based on human dignity and cannot, as a matter of principle, be bought or sold. while member states are sovereign in matters of citizenship and residency, they must not forget that granting citizenship or widened residency also grants access to the whole schengen area and ensures equal rights across the eu. truly responsible behaviour and consideration are needed. it is regrettable that malta’s new socialist government pushed through a law to sell its citizenship based on a minimum requirement of eur 650 000. citizenship should be granted on the basis of merit, not the thickness of a wallet. such an approach will only attract individuals with questionable motives and shady business practices. i call on the maltese government and on other european states with similar practices to reconsider. european cooperation is built on trust and reciprocity: such national actions are bound to seriously damage both, not to mention drastically undermining the reputation of the selling country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. small agricultural holdings are under growing pressure from urbanising society, new technologies and new production methods. at the same time, they constitute the core of european agriculture and also bear our cultural heritage and maintain family traditions in farming. small agricultural holdings not only produce agriculture products but also maintain the land and nature to ensure environmental sustainability and offer jobs in the countryside. europe needs to support its farmers, especially small agriculture holdings that often face unnecessarily complicated procedures in finding financing and developing new business ideas. access to project funding and general business financing means should be easy and unbureaucratic. the information given should not require extra education in project application but should enable farmers to obtain means for good farming practices. european regulation constitutes an indication of the rules and should be taken seriously, but it cannot lead to rigid ‘one measure for all’ implementation at local level. especially in agriculture, this causes problems for farmers, who need a certain flexibility (stemming from changing weather conditions, cattle population, etc.) in their actions.
in writing. - i supported the report in principle, although it could have been more strategic in nature, highlighting the different scenarios and options for small producers. the member state must first decide in substance whether it supports small producers and how it views the role of small producers whether the small producer is part of an active agricultural production chain or whether small producers are important for the social aspect of agriculture (maintenance of the population in rural areas). support for small farmers should be aligned with this. small producers in rural areas certainly play an important role both in maintaining the local population and in providing a so-called public service (keeping the land in use, etc.). small producers should have more opportunities to obtain alternative income and to find jobs. the provision of such alternatives should take into account not only the availability of the agricultural and rural development funds, but also the availability of other funds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. e-commerce is the backbone of future commerce and we need to ensure that regulations and rules make it easy to do business. currently we are facing several problems, one of which is related to delivery services. customers hesitate to use e-commerce, as they do not trust delivery options, cannot find clear information and often face the problem that their address is not eligible for delivery. successful e-commerce sets as a precondition a fully functioning digital single market. this means that doing e-business does not depend on the physical location in europe, and neither does it discriminate based on delivery address or location. this is important not only for individual consumers but also for sme-s, for whom deliveries can today mean substantial costs, especially if made cross-border. also, to build trust between commerce and consumers, a fully interoperable online track and trace system needs to be implemented, so that when sending a parcel from a small village in cyprus to the northern-most point in finland, it can be tracked without disruption the whole way. lastly, discriminatory payment methods need to be abolished. all eu citizens should have the opportunity to use their credit cards when purchasing online in eu.
the european commission's climate and energy policy framework of 22 january 2014 addresses, among other issues, energy prices and costs. the analysis does not reveal any new factors the reasons for the price increase are the increase in the price of fossil fuels, investments in networks and new production capacity and weak competition in the eu common market. the solutions proposed are also not new increased competition in the internal energy market, energy saving measures, the development of network infrastructure and the establishment of a common eu front against energy importing countries. however, it is surprising that the eu's long-term climate and energy policy framework, presented on the same day, does not include any proposals on energy saving. the question of how to develop domestic energy resources, in particular renewable sources, is also unanswered, given that eu spending on energy imports has increased from eur 150 billion in 2004 to eur 421 billion in 2012. i believe that ambitious targets, equitably distributed among member states and in line with the commission's own impact assessments, both in terms of energy savings and renewable energy, are the key to controlling energy prices and costs.
my good colleagues! north korea, syria and iran against, russia and china neutral. the usual suspects, as mr. rinaldi got. a resolution of our parliament in 2012 linked arms sales not only to the human rights situation but also to the record of good governance. the latter criterion does not in any way cover the decision of the french government to sell mistral helicopter carriers to russia. this ancient decision could now be reviewed by president hollande. i would like to compliment the rapporteurs, arnaud danjean and my tense neighbour david martin, on their report. the ceterum censeo! france needs mistral to help resolve the syrian conflict, for example, not to increase exports to russia. thank you!
on behalf of the alde group. thank you very much, mr. director. commissioner kallas, my dear colleagues! on behalf of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, i would like to say that alde has always stood up for the rights of passengers, regardless of the mode of transport. i have myself been a co-rapporteur on several reports on passenger rights and i believe that passenger rights must be guaranteed. this report is based on the fact that there are frequent situations in the aviation industry where passengers' rights are not fully guaranteed in the event of flight cancellations, long delays or baggage handling disruptions. under the current rules, only 2% of eligible passengers are entitled to compensation. the icelandic ash crisis clearly demonstrated the need for a clearer and more effective legal framework for both air passenger rights and air carrier obligations. the correct application of the rules in force, the use of simple and adequate means of redress and the accurate provision of information to passengers are the cornerstones of passenger confidence. i consider it most important to inform passengers of their rights and obligations. today, many problems with air travel are due to passengers not knowing their rights and obligations, or airlines not communicating them clearly enough to passengers. it is welcome that, as a result of the efficient work of the transport committee, in the absence of exceptional circumstances, passengers are entitled to compensation for delayed or missed flights, which is clearly fixed. the transport committee's proposals will significantly increase the rights of disabled passengers crew members will be trained to assist disabled passengers, guide dogs will be provided with good conditions, disabled passengers cannot be left behind on the grounds of unaccompanied travel. in the event that air carriers are informed in advance of the need for assistance, several restrictions on the right to compensation do not apply to disabled persons, pregnant women and unaccompanied children. the commission is pleased to have found support in the proposal to support smaller airlines operating regionally. perhaps the proposal will provide for a so-called buffer time of 90 minutes, for which they will not be liable for compensation for the onward flight. as a change of major benefit to consumers, the possibility has been introduced for tickets with a return flight to use the return flight even if the departure flight was not used. i think the compromise that has been supported in the transport committee is a good balance on consumer law, without putting european airlines in too difficult a position. i am even more dismayed by the behaviour of the socialists, who in the committee supported all the compromises, but now try to change the compromises they have reached by acting populist. it's not fair! therefore, alde does not support any of the oral amendments, nor does imco, i.e. mayer and others. they contradict the compromise already reached. i would also like to raise the gibraltar problem in conclusion, because i cannot understand why air passengers' rights are not respected at one of the european union airports ... (the president interrupted).
in writing. - the european parliament's initiative in reforming the common fisheries policy is welcome. it is only natural that changes made in the spirit of 'accounting' should be subject to substantive discussion as to their impact and effectiveness. the commission will also be supporting the development of a wide consultation of stakeholders, as this is the only way to ensure that fisheries policy rules are better applied in the future. the substantive review should also cover the non-practical elements of the legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour this report that will give a mandate to the rapporteur for the trilogue in the coming months. i welcome that the commission came up with a proposal to clarify air passenger rights. currently, we still face irregularities and ambiguities – e.g. rights to accommodation, communication etc. are often not upheld properly, compensation claims procedures are complicated and rules can be interpreted differently. most problems arise when defining unpredicted irregularities (such as weather conditions, strikes not announced beforehand, etc.) where passengers often face dubious reasons and interpretations by the airlines and do not know if they can or cannot file for compensation. the ep report goes even further that the commission proposal and wants to eliminate ambiguities and irregularities as described above. among other issues it defines, for instance, a higher compensation ceiling for delayed flights and extends accommodation rights to 5 nights and eur 125 maximum per night. it also aims to put an end to the no-show policy under which, if the passenger does not show up for the first flight, all connected flights and return flights are automatically cancelled. i hope the trilogue reaches a good compromise by the spring and the new rules can be implemented without delay.
in writing. - at the moment we are facing a situation where cancellations, long delays and baggage handling disruptions are common, but under the current rules only 2% of eligible passengers receive compensation. as a frequent traveller myself, i fully understand the importance of effective protection of rights. in today's vote i supported the amendment of air passenger rights as it provides legal certainty for both passengers and airlines. i'd like to stop at some important changes. i think it is essential to improve the way passengers are informed about their rights - this is what is causing most of the problems today. it is welcome that, as a result of the efficient work of the transport committee, the rates of compensation have been clearly fixed and the exceptional circumstances have been clearly defined to ensure certainty. the change that will certainly benefit consumers is the possibility of using a return flight for round-trip tickets even if the departure flight is not used, as well as the reduction of restrictions on hand luggage. the increase in the rights of disabled passengers and the introduction of musical instruments are welcome. i am glad that the commission supported the 90-minute 'buffer' period to protect smaller airlines. only the gibraltar question was left open, which received a strange solution the article was deleted, but the recital was retained. i am convinced that air passengers' rights must be respected at all airports in the european union. this regulation has nothing to do with the dispute between the united kingdom and spain, but only with the safeguarding of passengers' rights. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the co-rapporteur for their excellent cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, we have to realise that ukraine is no longer an episode on our eastern borders. the solution to this crisis will also decide the eu’s future and credibility. a long-term eu strategy is clearly needed. it is also a chance to break the long-lasting political limbo as regards our eastern partnership policy. russia is heavily involved in this crisis and we must support the idea that russia must first clearly recognise ukrainian independence and freedom of choice and only then can we have further meaningful cooperation. what to do next? first, i think it is time to recognise that president yanukovych has lost almost all credibility. his resignation should be his only positive contribution to a national agreement. we should insist on a return to the 2004 constitution and ask for early elections but i also support freezing the bank accounts first of all of oligarchs and those responsible for repression. lastly, we need an eu-us joint kind of marshall plan to provide for long-term stability and create conditions for sustainable revival.
in writing. – the humanitarian crisis in the central african republic is worsening. the whole population (of whom 50% are children) is affected, half of them acutely. currently, more than 880 000 internally displaced people are seeking aid and refuge. according to the un, the situation could become a humanitarian disaster, as usd 551 million is needed immediately to ensure that 1.9 million people receive vital relief and protection. the un has listed the crisis in the central african republic as one of its highest priorities, next to syria and to the philippines following the typhoon. i call upon european states to make funds available immediately to bridge the gap. the european council agreed in december last year to make relevant instruments available to stabilise the situation, notably allocating funds from the instrument for stability. the union and member states donated eur 76 million last year and will continue to contribute this year. there is also an acute need for troops to protect humanitarian aid and relief workers and to combat the séléka and anti-balaka rebel groups who have already massacred more than 1000 people. france has deployed a 1600-strong force to combat the rebels. estonia is currently finalising a plan to send 55 troopers. other european states should follow suit and help to prevent another large-scale human catastrophe.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, commissioners, i could be very brief and just say this in two words, but relations between the european union and russia do not look good. unfortunately, over the past decade our relations have lost a significant part of their potential. instead of the expected progress and closer economic and political ties, we have witnessed the exact opposite: the continuing deterioration of human nights, the unacceptable and undemocratic pressure on our eastern partners and the rough infringement of wto trade rules all illustrate how russia has consistently and systematically disrupted the improvement of the situation. this state of our relations was also the reason why the format of the eu-russia summit was modified, so that instead of a two-day working session with dinner, the meeting was held behind closed doors and only lasted for a couple of hours. this house has consistently drawn attention to the issues which need to be addressed and solved, and we hope that the commission and council representatives stuck to the same coherent line. we must not be tricked into believing that the sudden array of presidential pardons before the sochi olympic games will change the lack of the rule of law or improve the human rights conditions in russia. nor should we believe that russia has no intentions to interfere in the conflict in ukraine. we must be very pragmatic and listen to the people of ukraine, georgia and moldova, who are all very much afraid that anything can happen there after the olympic games in these regions. we have to sign as soon as possible the association agreements with georgia and moldova, and hopefully soon with ukraine too.
madam president, i would like to remind you of what elmar brok has stated, which is that as long as member states fail to take a common approach we will not have a successful russia policy. ukrainian developments have caused us to see that kremlin leaders view the eu as a strategic rival, an opponent and a serious threat to any post-soviet regime of authoritarian leaders, corruption and lawlessness. hence russia’s strategic goal has been to weaken and split the eu, practically denying its basic values. sadly, eu and russian relations are not currently based on shared values. to solve the ukrainian crisis in a positive way, the eu should first apply conditionality in relations with russia. we cannot be satisfied with giving strong messages. the least one can do is to activate the magnitsky list, which would freeze the visas and assets of those responsible for repression and corruption. the european parliament has supported this, and it is vital for the council to follow suit urgently.
mr president, the balkan countries have become the most likely region for further eu enlargement. we should do our utmost to support and speed up this encouraging process. i would like to express my thanks to commissioner füle for his constructive commitment to this. but there is one applicant country that has been left in limbo, despite the clear and repeated position taken by the commission and parliament that macedonia has met the necessary criteria to start accession negotiations. the commission has concluded that any continuing failure of the european council to start accession negotiations will undermine the credibility of the enlargement process as a whole. we call on the country of the presidency to show statesmanship, to respect all european interests, and to demonstrate flexibility in order to solve this continuing, painful and embarrassing impasse.
in writing. dear director, dear colleagues! as a supporter of ambitious climate and energy policies, i supported the joint envi-itre report in the plenary vote today. reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing renewable energy and energy efficiency are important issues that help improve the eu's competitiveness and reduce energy costs. the effects of high energy prices are felt by everyone in their daily lives, so it is important to find less expensive alternatives. our over-dependence on energy imports is a cause for concern, and better use of resources and energy security are issues that cannot be ignored. in order to reduce import dependency, increase energy security and lower energy prices, it is necessary to increase the use of renewable energy, which is why i support a 40% renewable energy target. this objective is also necessary in the context of climate change! it is important that energy and climate policies are consistent and mutually reinforcing, in line with the 20/20/20 objectives. reducing co2 emissions alone is not enough we must consistently implement energy efficiency and renewable energy. in order to achieve those objectives, it is necessary to make them legally binding. the eurobarometer surveys show that europeans themselves are in favour of promoting renewable energy. i am opposed to a proposal that calls for a common goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. a flexible trading mechanism would allow more successful renewable energy producers, such as my home country of estonia, to sell their surpluses to other member states this would promote intra-eu business and take account of the differences between member states.
in writing. - unlike many of my colleagues in the european parliament and my colleagues in estonia, i voted in favour of this resolution, considering it very important to inform consumers about the origin of meat. it is true that the labelling of the place of birth, rearing and slaughter of animals entails certain additional costs for meat processors, but deceiving the consumer, for example, with meat from another country and packaging from home, is not justified in any way, it is simply deceiving the consumer. as the processors in the small countries, including my own, are largely controlled by foreign capital, meat is imported from their parent company or preferred over the cheaper one from romania, our local meat producers are forced to export their production mainly to the very unstable market of the russian federation. the indication of the origin of the meat would certainly give an advantage to the local producer, since the consumer in my country also prefers domestic quality production. focusing on the domestic market for small-scale producers would help to ensure a stable development of the sector and reduce the ecological footprint created by, for example, the transport of live animals from my home country to slaughterhouses in a neighbouring country, the russian federation. the transport of live animals outside their country of origin is also to be condemned from the point of view of animal welfare.
in writing. - transparency in the food chain is very important, but at the same time it must remain realistic in protecting the interests of the supplier. amending the commission implementing act on the basis of a resolution does not increase the clarity for the consumer the use of different data, for example on the ham, is bound to cause confusion. we need to restore consumer confidence in european products and reassure consumers that a product produced in the european union meets all the necessary standards. we must not go down the road of risking that the consumer feels that the product of one member state is not the standard. the proposal also makes the birthplace tracking system too expensive and difficult to implement.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because i was very concerned about what was happening in ukraine. i find it regrettable that the berkut riot police and other security forces have tried to suppress anti-government demonstrations by force, and that at least six people have already died in the unrest, with many more still missing. as we know, violence breeds violence, and unfortunately some protesters have also resorted to violence, attacking police officers with molotov cocktails, causing serious injuries. i consider the use of force between the parties unacceptable and i believe that the only way to reconcile the ukrainian people and to find a compromise is through peaceful dialogue, which must be launched immediately and unconditionally. we can't let ukraine get into a civil war. i acknowledge the efforts made so far by the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, to address the extremely complex situation in ukraine.
in writing. a free, democratic, self-sufficient ukraine is the dream of all of us. as a member of the estonian parliament, the issue of ukraine is naturally closer to me than to some of my colleagues. the european union must not waste its energy in finding solutions to problems. we must continue to actively support democratic solutions in this country. the key milestone is certainly the holding of free and democratic presidential elections.
author. - mr president, what we need in this case is a balanced and constructive approach combining criticism with encouragement. there are many causes of concern: the rule of law and human rights in bahrain; repression of demonstrations during recent years; and today we are calling for the release of several prisoners of conscience, especially nabeel rajab, abdulhadi al-khawaja and ibrahim sharif. at the same time, there are also encouraging signals that the bahraini government has committed itself to reforms following the national independent commission of inquiry report. we also encourage efforts to reform the penal code to create an independent and impartial judiciary, and there is a national consensus dialogue that has started talks with the crown prince. so we are going to monitor the situation. we express our criticisms but we also encourage the bahraini authorities to conduct reforms.
in writing. - the european varietal sector needs to be actively addressed in the light of research. the future of europe depends to a large extent on our r & d activities in all agricultural sectors. supporting and training researchers in the field is equally important. the cultivation of varieties should be part of the common agricultural policy as it is important both for agricultural production and for sustainability.
in writing. - the honorable chairman, the honorable colleagues! i am pleased that you voted unanimously in favour of the cohesion policy report, for which i had the honour of being the rapporteur. i thank the co-rapporteur for her good cooperation and the commission officials for their excellent support in the preparation of the report. an analysis of the effectiveness of cohesion policy funding and its results is necessary to find better and more effective solutions for the current budgetary period. the implementation and analysis of the different measures must take into account the differences between regions and regions. it cannot be overlooked that what works in one area may not achieve the desired result in another, and therefore greater flexibility in the use of resources is needed. it is also important to change the basis of evaluation - the measure of success cannot be the number of instruments used, but rather the results achieved with these instruments. it may be easy to spend money, but it is important to create jobs and reduce inequalities between regions.
in writing. - the respected director, good colleagues! in today's vote i supported the adoption of the report on the ecall system, as i believe that it will increase the safety of our road users. according to the commission, 28 000 people died in road accidents in europe in 2012 and more than 1,5 million people were injured. the main advantage of the european union-wide ecall system is the reduction in the number of fatalities and the severity of injuries caused by road traffic accidents, as the emergency services reach the scene of an accident faster. i therefore welcome the proposal to introduce an in-vehicle ecall requirement to ensure that from october 2015 all new passenger car and light vehicle models are equipped with the 112-based ecall system and that the necessary infrastructure is in place to properly receive and process ecalls in the emergency call centres.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. firstly, it is regrettable that the connecting europe facility for telecommunications had to suffer a budget cut, skimmed down from eur[nbsp ]9.2 billion to eur[nbsp ]1 billion. in my view, connecting europe (energy, transport and telecoms) should be our number one priority if we are aiming at a fully integrated european union and a fully integrated single market. i welcome the fact that, given the limited means, the commission has decided to propose focusing on digital connections, namely on installing high-speed broadband across the eu. this will serve also as a flagship under the digital agenda for europe. i also welcome the fact that the first priority for funding is being given to reusable dsis (building blocks) such as electronic identification/authentication, secure electronic delivery of documents, automated translation for pan-european digital services, critical infrastructures supporting eu-wide cyber preparedness, and secure electronic invoicing. this will contribute to making the eu more competitive and connected, and especially digitally connected. it will also reduce bureaucratic burdens by replacing unnecessary paperwork with one-click services and enable means for cross-border digital business, european digital signatures, etc.
mr president, many people have died for the european future of ukraine. is this not sufficient proof that ukrainians have adopted european values and a european orientation? with regard to russia, the only thing that would help is a change in russia’s post-imperialist mentality towards its neighbours. commissioner, the eu must be adamant in insisting that the kremlin treats ukraine as a truly independent country, not a russian satellite. that would also be a way towards genuine russian independence. these days everyone wants to become closer to ukraine, but until now it has been obvious that mr putin wanted ukraine more, because he was willing to pay the price. so ukraine does not need words but payment of the price – a credible europe perspective, based on article 49. why do we not say it clearly? you are welcome to become members after you have met all the criteria.
in writing. what is happening around ukraine is complex and depressing. our efforts must be directed towards a peaceful solution. countries bordering russia are deeply concerned about the incredibly powerful russian official propaganda attack. there are also many russian-speaking people in estonia whose main source of information is russian state television channels. but they are met with a massive nationalist backlash. in essence, any discussion of the ukrainian-russian issue that does not confirm the official positions of russia is labelled as fascism. it is clear that the great call of russian nationalism has echoes in all those post-soviet countries with a significant russian-speaking population. this is a danger that should not be overlooked in any of the european parliament's handling of ukraine.
in writing. – last week we were informed that the bodies of the 52 freedom fighters of camp liberty were buried secretly by the iraqi government to conceal its crimes against humanity. since 2009 when iraq took over from the usa the security of these iranian refugees, 118 persons have been killed by iraqi armed forces in various attacks, 7 have been taken hostage, 18 have died because of medical blockade and 1[nbsp ]375 have been wounded or maimed. the growth of the threat posed by iranian influence in iraq to the safety and lives of camp liberty detainees can be also measured in the destructiveness of the weapons used against them. iraqi prime minister maliki has to take responsibility for those crimes. one conclusion has to be drawn – the eu can’t just cooperate and sign trade deals with such a regime, that is not only waging a war against its own citizens but is also committing systematic repressions against iranian dissidents. the eu and ms ashton should abstain from whitewashing iraq of these crimes and not limit their worries to securing trade deals with iraq.
mr president, let me express my sympathy and support for the relatives of the people who have lost their lives, and for the hundreds of people who have been wounded, tortured and imprisoned. it is important that venezuela’s protests are not overshadowed by the ukrainian revolution. both are important. these massive demonstrations have been a convincing response to growing authoritarianism, corruption, a shortage of basic food and the curbing of freedom of expression. mr maduro’s government has to take full responsibility for these tragic events. immediately disband the armed pro-government groups, release prisoners and allow free media and freedom of expression.
in writing. - i support any measure that would help raise awareness among young people about the harmful effects of tobacco products. i also believe that parents need to raise awareness of the harmful effects of tobacco products on young people's health. it is known that a large proportion of smokers start smoking before the age of 18 years. the measures proposed (warnings covering up to 65% of the surface of the pack, prohibition of harmful additives as well as regulation of e-cigarettes) are appropriate to achieve the objectives. the impact of the directive should certainly be analysed in a few years' time to assess the effectiveness of the measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it is symbolically and politically a ‘must’ to support our eastern partnership neighbours who show clear willingness to integrate closer with the eu. in the light of the violent events in ukraine and russia’s increasing interference in its neighbour’s internal affairs, the eu needs to send a strong signal that we stand behind our eastern partners which have opted for the european way and that we are ready to provide incentives. providing visa waiver to moldovan citizens holding biometric passports that meet eu standards is to be welcomed. this is one important step on the road to building closer ties not only between the eu and moldova as a state, but also between the citizens of moldova and the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i firmly believe that the eu and its member states need to be stricter in monitoring how money is being transferred within the eu and to outside the eu. i welcome that the report foresees concrete measures in registering legal entities and their financial transactions that fall under this directive. the eu has to decisively stand against corruption and money laundering, especially in regard to money that is being laundered or used to finance unlawful and even terrorist activities. the current situation in ukraine is a good example of how russian and ukrainian oligarchs and authorities can comfortably stock their money in the eu without being controlled or sanctioned sufficiently. the eu has to control movements and deposits of shady money. i hope the member states will stick to the strict measures proposed, so that the eu can contribute to the fight against corruption and money laundering worldwide.
in writing. - the honorable chairman, the honorable colleagues! in today's vote i supported the adoption of the report on the periodic roadworthiness test for motor vehicles and their trailers, the harmonisation of rules and the improvement of minimum requirements. this is very welcome, as it increases road safety on our roads and environmental protection in relation to vehicles. cars may have technical defects that the owner may not be aware of, and accidents may thus be caused by factors beyond the control of the driver. regular inspection helps to avoid such situations. the report shall ensure that a motor vehicle coming from another member state complies with the minimum safety requirements in all member states. this regulation is essential in view of the increase in intra-european mobility and the free movement of labour. in some member states, safety requirements are much stricter than in others, but we must understand that the reason for this is to protect our road users. the safety of vehicles is therefore primarily in the interests of drivers and their fellow passengers themselves, which is why we need to raise standards in all member states! i am glad that the report also includes motorcycles, because according to the world health organisation, almost 28 000 people died on eu roads in 2012, 18% of whom were motorcyclists and mopeds. motor vehicles are a major source of pollution and have an impact on both nature and people, so it is important to reduce emissions from poorly maintained vehicles. finally, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs and co-rapporteurs who worked on this package of technical reports, which affects almost all citizens of the european union.
in writing. - first of all, i'd like to thank mr. kuhn and mrs. sehnalovát and all the other reporters for their cooperation. the purpose of the motor vehicle roadworthiness test package is to strengthen roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles in order to improve road safety and environmental protection, with a view to improving the efficiency of inspection and testing procedures for vehicles in circulation. the main objective of the report is not only to improve road safety but also to reduce red tape and paperwork and to harmonise operations in different member states. the electronic database in estonia is a good example of how to facilitate technical inspections and controls. in the coming years, a similar system will have to be operational in all member states. the wider use of databases will provide an opportunity to ensure that our roads are used by vehicles that are technically sound and environmentally sound. the results of the technical inspections shall be available electronically and shall be indicated either in the vehicle registration documents or on separate paper accompanying the vehicle. i am pleased that parliament has supported, as a positive amendment for car owners, the proposal for the re-registration of vehicles in another member state, whereby under the new rules the valid roadworthiness test report card must be recognised as equivalent to the test report card of the member state where the vehicle is registered. in addition, the owner of a vehicle has the right to initiate a re-registration process at his own request when the vehicle is sold, in order to ensure the legal status of the owner during the period between the sale and re-registration of the vehicle. unfortunately, there was no support for a uniform format of registration documents that would be user-friendly and environmentally friendly.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the report on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles in the union, which forms part of the technical inspection package. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr sehnalovát, and the deputy rapporteur for their fruitful cooperation. this report is an important part of the technical inspection package, which aims to improve road safety and reduce road fatalities by harmonising legislation on roadworthiness tests. the technical condition of commercial vehicles can vary considerably between member states, even between neighbouring countries. given that commercial vehicles may be used in different member states, it is important that uniform high standards ensure the highest possible level of road safety throughout the union. it is appropriate to reduce the scope of checks to vehicle owners who regularly maintain their vehicles and comply with road safety and environmental standards. i also fully support the introduction of uniform requirements for inspectors carrying out roadworthiness tests and the limitation of information in roadworthiness tests reports to what is essential in order to reduce the administrative burden on inspectors.
in writing. – let us face reality - strategic partnership under putin is not viable. the current leader of our partner has been exposed of aggression and blatant lying. mr. putin can be stopped. as yulia tymoshenko stated, he will go as far as he is allowed to go. putin should be placed first on the list of asset freezes. arms deals with russia should be stopped immediately and unconditionally. it is an absolute disgrace that france is about to deliver russia two supermodern mistral attack warships, one of them named sevastopol. condemning russian aggression and delivering the aggressor modern arms will destroy all moral credibility of eu. we have to condemn unequovically russia's self-styled racist doctrine of intervening abroad to defend compatriots there. it carries a shocking similarity to hitler's aggressive "defence" of german minorities in 1930s. it is a crucial moment for retaining the european system of security and cooperation. there is no room for tiptoeing. we need to cause agressor real pain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. ballistic missile defence deployment on european soil serves as a security guarantee and as a defence measure, not aggression as argued by russian authorities. in the changing global security situation, we have to be prepared to defend europe against possible missile attacks that have not only been developed by states but also by various non-state actors, increasing the probability of an attack. i support the notion laid out in the report that the fact that the bmd initiative comes mostly from the us is a sign of us commitment to nato and intended to ensure the security of its european partners. i call upon the eu to integrate bmd into future security considerations, strategies and studies.
in writing. - as a social liberal, i fully support the free movement of people and the simplification of visa procedures in relations with european partners is an important step towards this. the experience of ukraine has shown that visa facilitation increases the cross-border movement of people by increasing awareness and understanding. various surveys have shown that people who travel and move across borders more are more tolerant and have a wider horizon. this is unfortunately confirmed by the situation in the crimean peninsula in ukraine, where the russian-speaking population has a generally extremely negative attitude towards european and western cultural space, as most of these people have never been to any foreign country. ignorance and closed society are, of course, what is called fertile ground for intolerance. i find the lack of democracy in azerbaijan despite the fact that visa facilitation is the right step in communicating the possibilities of democracy.
in writing. - as i support visa facilitation between the european union and azerbaijan, i also supported this report, which is one of the most important preconditions for visa facilitation. i have been closely following the events and developments in azerbaijan since the early 1990s, when i was a member of the first government of the re-independent republic of estonia and was also responsible for cooperation between estonia and azerbaijan, and i am pleased that eu-azerbaijan cooperation has been steadily deepening and that the economic and political development of the country has been remarkable. given that the european union is represented only by the european commission in the joint committee for the administration of this agreement, i agree with the rapporteur's insistence that the european parliament be involved in everything and that it be kept informed of everything concerning the opening and progress of negotiations for the signature of this agreement and other similar agreements.
in writing. - i supported this report, considering it important to introduce new and stricter data protection rules, given that the old rules are almost 20 years old and technology has developed rapidly. i am concerned about the very high number of cases where personal data have been misused and where certain countries and their institutions do not respect the basic privacy of their citizens. i also find unacceptable the recent behaviour of the australian authorities, where an estonian eu citizen was not allowed to enter the country as a tourist because the border guard there demanded the password of his facebook and e-mail accounts, and then read all his personal correspondence, which allegedly left an suspicious impression. of course, this behaviour is unacceptable, but before we start pointing fingers at the rest of the world, we need to get things right at home in europe and ensure effective and sustainable data protection.
in writing. - thank you for your work, mr. reporter. it is undoubtedly a complex report and a lot of hard work has been done, which i supported with my vote in favour today. the current state of european airspace is far from satisfactory and needs to be re-invented as a matter of urgency. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2010 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2010. the lack of oversight is a concern, and the body that carries it out should already have been made independent. i am pleased that independent supervision and transparency are mentioned separately in the text. european aviation in this form is neither sustainable nor competitive. we cannot afford to think only of our national airlines here. we must look at the bigger picture and focus on pan-european cooperation, with a social and human dimension. i would like to conclude by expressing my disappointment, as my colleagues in the group of the party of european socialists have done, at the decision to exclude gibraltar from the report, which is part of european airspace.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. europe can be proud of its enlargement process as the most successful european project. nevertheless we must honestly admit that the eastern partnership project is on the verge of failing miserably if europe continues to send ambiguous, non-binding messages, and does not firmly stand up to russian threats against ukraine that have taken on a serious military dimension. the eu currently appears to be a non-decisive, weak community that cannot protect its affiliates even in cases of military threat. it is unclear what will become of the eastern partnership in the light of ukraine, but europe clearly needs to re-decide its strategy and engage on a much higher level and more intensely with our eastern neighbours, including georgia and moldova. we have to offer them not only perspectives for economic integration but also political guarantees that we will stand with them when russia threatens and pressures them to give up further european integration. ‘never again’ is the greatest peace project in the world. can the eu uphold its commitment and ensure peace also in our eastern european neighbourhood?
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it is notable that this year’s report on turkey is considerably more critical than last year’s. turkey has regressed in the past year in terms of democracy and the rule of law. the events around gezi park were absolutely unacceptable. a serious investigation of the casualties and government responsibility has still not taken place. huge corruption cases, some related to prime minister erdogan, have come to light and have shaken the judicial system. we can commend the achievements on paper in adopting laws ensuring transparency, the independence of the judiciary and democracy, but the reality is just the opposite. it is very worrying that civil servants have been screened on the basis of their political, ethnic and religious affiliations. this has to stop immediately. even though turkey has served as reliable partner in the syrian crisis, we cannot avoid seeing the corruption and undemocratic events taking place in the country. i call upon the eu to exert greater pressure on turkey to force it immediately to turn back to the path of democracy and the rule of law, as well as guaranteeing freedom of speech, religion and gathering. also, turkey should prosecute those responsible for the violence in gezi and remove from state offices those involved in corruption scandals.
member of the commission. - madam president, first of all, please accept the apologies of my colleague commissioner piebalgs. he is now in the central african republic, where the situation remains highly critical, so he cannot join this very important debate. however, on his behalf i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr goerens, for his report on policy coherence for development. there is strong commitment from parliament to this issue. i understand and share your concerns that development policy and development goals should not be undermined by other policy areas. this prompts the question of coherence between the other responsibilities of what we call the relex family. i am also a witness as to how well mr piebalgs is doing his job, meeting regularly with all the relevant colleagues in charge of specific portfolios, such as commissioner cioloş for agriculture and commissioner de gucht for trade. here, within the commission, there is a kind of network. i think we have adopted some key legislation which could reinforce our development objectives. i could mention the revision of the transparency and the accounting directive and the reform of the fisheries policy. in both areas, i think the role played by the european parliament was essential. we therefore welcome the report, the tone of which is positive and constructive. we also welcome the many suggestions. there is a clear and specific request from parliament on arbitrage by the president of the commission in the area of policy coherence for development. i think this already exists, at least for as long as i have been present and a member of the college. of course, the collegiality principle applies to all the areas, but also to preventing the overlapping of the various external responsibilities of the european union. the other issue is cooperation with the external action service. this is a new service and thus, as is often the case, the beginnings are not always easy. but i think our cooperation is now developing quite well. as for the thematic issues that were also mentioned, the commission continues to work on five thematic challenges identified in 2009: trade and finance, climate change, food security, migration, and security. these were also identified by you in parliament’s report. we are ready to consider your recommendations and suggestions carefully and also, obviously, to take into account the conclusions reached at the december[nbsp ]2013 council to promote coherence for development and the search for synergies. i am responsible for the budget for that, which for me means being the guardian of the taxpayers’ money. this is what we need to avoid the overlapping of responsibilities. we will report on this issue in 2015. thank you for your report and for this opportunity to express the commission’s point of view.
i would like to inform the house that we have a very important delegation from estonia on the balcony, the fathers and mothers of estonian democracy, so to speak. may they be welcomed! thank you!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. firstly, i regret that it was delayed and could not be adopted last year so as to enter a trilogue sooner. the eu urgently needs to step up its preparedness to face cyber threats. our infrastructure and critical information services are not fully protected. this report foresees a minimum level of national capabilities to be developed, which should include appointing competent authorities for network and information security (nis), ensuring fully functional computer emergency response teams (certs), and developing with no further delay national nis strategies and cooperation plans. it also prepares the ground for effective cooperation and coordination between member states through an nis network and to oblige market operators in specific sectors, such as energy, transport, financial markets, and food supply, to report certain nis incidents and adopt appropriate measures to ensure nis. i would have preferred to see public administrations covered by this directive; nevertheless they are invited to implement the measures on a voluntary basis. i hope the trilogue will proceed at a good pace and that an agreement will be reached this year to start the implementation phase as soon as possible. our vulnerabilities need to be minimised, and for that we need decisive european effort.
in writing. - i supported this resolution, strongly condemning the occupation of the crimean peninsula in ukraine by the russian federation and the interference in the internal affairs of the neighbouring country. it seems incredible that in the 21st century, europe is still ruled by a leader who uses the same methods as joseph stalin and adolf hitler used in the last century, when they invaded their neighbors as aggressors and used false pretexts to do so. russia's actions are in clear violation of the un charter, the osce helsinki final act, the statute of the council of europe, the 1994 budapest memorandum on security assurances and other international agreements. this shows that russia cannot be trusted and the international community must draw its own conclusions. the russian federation and its leader, vladimir putin, are not deterred by mere harsh words, russia only recognises force, i.e. the european union must impose tough and specific sanctions that would actually stop the aggressor. the cold war showed that the militarily powerful soviet union was falling apart as its economy was paralyzed. we need to talk to president putin in a language he understands. in order to ensure that the european union is independent and not subject to pressure from russia's non-european policy, a change in european energy policy must be initiated. we must reduce our dependence on russian natural gas and find alternative ways to secure our energy supply. currently, about 80% of russia's export earnings are tied to the eu energy market, meaning that the russian war machine and the occupation in ukraine are unfortunately directly funded by european gas consumers. it's time to act, and just yelling and criticizing won't make it better!
author. - mr president, over the course of this parliamentary term, the human rights situation in russia has steadily worsened and the judicial system has become more and more influenced by executive decisions. we have repeatedly called on russia to undertake the reforms necessary to improve democratic standards, the rule of law and the independence of the judicial system. instead, russia’s authorities continue to utilise its courts in order to send harsh and unwarranted signals that criticism of the regime and freedom of speech are not tolerated. in addition to the notorious khodorkovsky, magnistky and pussy riot cases, the recent guilty verdict against eight of the 2012 bolotnaya square demonstrators, as well as the forced psychiatric treatment of one of the activists, has been politically motivated. the corrupt regime in russia has become confident in securing its position and does not hesitate to use all means to make this clear. the eu is able to adopt effective measures, such as targeted sanctions against those responsible for these autocratic and undemocratic decisions, by refusing them entry into the european union and freezing their assets there. as sanctions are a measure of last resort, i urge the russian judicial authorities, once again, to reconsider the sentences in this appeal process.
mr president, in the light of the fact that today we are going to adopt the common visa restrictions for russian officials involved in the sergei[nbsp ]magnitsky case, we have with us in the visitors’ gallery today, the late sergei[nbsp ]magnitsky’s wife, together with his son and his former boss, mr bill browder. i am pleased to welcome our guests in the gallery. (applause)
mr president, against the background of the aggression in crimea, a particular irony is hidden in the fact that france is continuing with the sale of two mistral helicopter carriers to putinist russia. it reminds me of the 16th century chronicle writer balthasar russow in tallinn, who warned the dutch against selling weapons to russia: sooner or later they will be turned against the west, he wrote. there is a solution though, through our cfsp. the eu should purchase those vessels from france for its naval force. germany and the netherlands should provide the missing helicopters; nordic countries, for instance, the crews. mistrals could be sent to a war that is close to the horn of africa, where exactly that kind of capacity is needed to help the somalian build-up. besides, we will have a double game: a reduction of aggressionary pressures on ukraine and georgia, let alone poland and the baltic states. i am not kidding. i am dead serious about it.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, vice-president/high representative ashton is going to greece right now, but not on holiday. she has to participate in a very important interparliamentary conference, where i look forward to seeing some of you this afternoon, in athens. before going into the iran debate, since the high representative also referred to the eastern partnership, let me bring you some good news. just a few minutes ago, the president of this parliament, mr schulz, and myself, on behalf of the council, signed the decision for the visa liberalisation for citizens of moldova. this is a decision that will take effect 20 days from now, on 28 april. there will be visa liberalisation for moldova and we are very glad that we are going to receive the president of moldova in athens on that historic day, 28 april. after greece, the high representative will travel to vienna next week for a new round of talks in the on-going diplomatic effort to seek a comprehensive agreement on the iranian nuclear issue. over the last months and weeks, she has continued her intense and direct involvement in international negotiations on behalf of the european union and the international community in search of lasting solutions to critical international peace and security challenges. the high representative/vice-president, together with the political directors of china, france, germany, russia, the united kingdom and the united states, met with iran’s foreign minister mohammad javad zarif for the second round of the e3/eu+3 talks with iran in vienna on 19 march. as the high representative and minister zarif stressed at the end of this second round, substantive and useful discussions covering a set of issues including enrichment, the arak reactor, civil nuclear cooperation and sanctions took place, based on the framework for the negotiations established at the previous meeting. ahead of the meeting next week in vienna, and to continue the work on the substantial areas, technical experts are meeting, as we speak, to further elaborate on the details of the relevant issues. the e3/eu+3 were again fully united when they met last time in vienna. as the high representative has already emphasised, the strength and credibility of these negotiations derives from the unity of the e3/eu+3 and the support of all european member states, as well from the international community as a whole and, of course, we are very grateful for the support of this house. as you know, lady ashton recently visited iran from 8 to 10 march. this was the first bilateral visit in her capacity as eu high representative, following an invitation by foreign minister zarif. this visit was not primarily related to the nuclear issue. the visit was an opportunity to discuss issues of mutual interest and concern in the region, to have an opportunity to talk about the terrible situation in syria, to focus on areas of cooperation around the future of afghanistan – especially the problems and challenges we face with the drugs trade – and the potential of our human rights dialogue in the future. a delegation chaired by mrs cromberg travelled to iran at the end of december last year, and the resolution to be voted tomorrow underscores the importance of the agreement reached in geneva and the decisions taken by the council at its meeting on 20 january 2014 with a view to implementing the joint plan of action. the deputy prime minister and foreign minister of greece, mr venizelos, visited iran in march. he stressed the importance of bilateral dialogue on human rights issues, pointing out that tehran should be ready to tackle a number of difficult questions. on the nuclear issue, he welcomed the good start to the talks in february, expressing hope that this huge challenge will be successfully addressed. as i said, the council reaffirmed in january that the objective of the european union continues to be the achievement of a comprehensive and long-term settlement which will build international confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of the iranian nuclear programme, while respecting iran’s legitimate rights to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, in conformity with the npt. this is our common objective. i will be interested to hear your views and to share them with high representative/vice-president ashton.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the interim agreement has proven that sanctions against the clerical dictatorship are really biting. it is clear that only economic pressure and growing isolation has made iranian leaders look for more flexible options. it is crucial now not to make premature concessions. at present, there is immense pressure by powerful economic groups to re-enter the iranian markets, to rush in ahead of real agreements and changes. therefore, my group has been critical of the original european parliament report because, let us say, it has been too optimistic. instead of investing vain hopes in the so-called moderate new president, we need to be careful and demanding until the final agreement has been reached. it is not yet the case. a final reduction in sanctions can take place on condition that tehran agrees to a massive reduction of its nuclear infrastructures, that they allow unannounced inspections and that they address their systematic build-up of missile capability. second, any agreement must be linked to a credible change in iranian human rights policy. iran is still the leading country in executions and torture and this is continuing under the new president. finally, lady ashton has not managed to achieve security for the iranian opposition inmates of camp liberty. they are hostages of the iraqi security forces. up till now, 116 have been killed and 1[nbsp ]000 have been wounded. the high representative and parliament are going on vacation, so the forthcoming summer will be very critical for the lives and very existence of this opposition group. we should do our utmost to adopt these people, as the united nations has suggested.
blue-card question to josefweidenholzer. – mr weidenholzer has just said that we (the european union) have neglected iran for too long. is not the opposite the case – that iran’s regime has neglected its commitments to human rights and other international commitments and its commitments towards its population? we need to begin from here. it is not our fault; it is the fault of the iranian regime.
in writing. – the euʼs strategic export controls regime has been long outdated and could not keep up with changing world realities and especially with ever growing dual-use technology. this report provides a new strategic framework to ensure high-level security and adequate transparency, at the same time maintaining competitiveness. new threats are emerging constantly; rapid technological changes pose growing challenges in keeping up and being able to build up corresponding resilience. we need to reduce distortions, to create urgently a common market for dual-use items (to ensure also a uniform level playing field for exporters). it is important that the eu provides a model for arms export control to third countries. the eu also urgently needs to streamline the process for updating the control lists, to strengthen risk assessment and exchange of information, develop improved industry standards, and reduce disparities in implementation. we have to be able to track and trace arms export and ensure that ict and especially dual-use items are not used to violate human rights and threaten eu security. this is especially acute in the situation where russia is invading ukraine using military technology sold to russia by eu member states.
in writing. - i supported this own-initiative report, which describes well the problems of the european 'older worker' (people aged 55-64) on the labour market, which should be given more attention. the european social fund (esf) allocations for supporting older workers are certainly very important, but unfortunately we do not have more precise and reliable data to assess the effectiveness of these allocations. there is no overview of the impact of esf allocations on gender equality, which is why i think it is important that the data are also grouped by gender. the use of esf allocations must be transparent and results-oriented, not just spent. it is strange for me to hear constant talk about how europe is short of labour, and this in a situation where the employment rate for people aged 55 to 64 in the eu is below 50% and youth unemployment is 22%. the problem is not the shortage of people, but the high targeting and/or low quality of retraining and the education system as a whole. real needs and the actual situation are not taken into account sufficiently. eu member states with high unemployment should follow the example of germany and the netherlands, where high employment rates have been achieved thanks to good cooperation with employers and the flexibility of the education system.
in writing. - the honorable chairman, the honorable colleagues! in today's vote i supported the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on noise from motor vehicles and replacement pollution control systems in order to achieve greater environmental savings and to reduce the impact of noise on human health. it is good to see that a clear signal has finally been given to introduce new standards and that the options of vehicle manufacturers have been taken into account in this decision. although the final decision is a little more lenient on environmental requirements for vehicle manufacturers, it is worth noting that annex iii has been given the appropriate categories for vehicles, buses and trucks. this will reduce the noise level of passenger cars to a limit of 68 db over time. as the development of completely new technologies can take up to 10 years, it is important that the implementation time takes into account the fact that manufacturers are ready to deliver compliant products in time. it was also agreed that manufacturers would endeavour to provide information on vehicle noise levels at the point of sale and in technical information material. parliament considers that it is important to protect blind and other vulnerable road users by installing an appropriate warning system on electric vehicles and that such a system should be made mandatory. the european parliament also attaches importance to road surfaces and sees opportunities to reduce vehicle noise. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that i am in favour of reducing noise and pollution, but this must go hand in hand with the efficient operation of the transport sector.
in writing. - i supported this regulation because the current medical devices directive does not guarantee higher quality ivd devices, i.e. medical devices intended for diagnostic use outside the human body, to improve disease prevention and treatment. the poor quality tests available on the european market have already caused a great deal of harm by giving false negatives to users, which in some cases have contributed to the spread of hiv and hepatitis c. in order to prevent the spread of low quality tests, the system of supervision and market surveillance must be strengthened and, of course, unannounced visits to the relevant establishments must become mandatory. to minimize and prevent damage, we must act quickly. the five-year transitional period for the european commission's proposed legislation is too long in my view. some parts of the regulation should be introduced much more quickly, such as those parts concerning the commission and the member states.
in writing. - i supported this report because i believe that it is essential to set limits on card-based transaction fees in order to promote the use of secure and fast payment methods. it is known that cash settlement is a major basis for the shadow economy and that banks' unfairly high interchange fees for card payments further encourage the use of cash. eu businesses pay around €10 billion in intermediation fees a year, and of course, this is ultimately paid by the european consumer. this is obviously a case of excess profits. it's amazing that a person has to pay extra for using their money, and this in a situation where banks are already making huge profits on their customers' deposits. i believe that this regulation will help to improve the conditions for the functioning and development of the internal payments market and the european economy as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendments 243-246 that strengthened the concept of net neutrality. as amendment 234 states, ‘net neutrality shall mean the principle according to which all internet traffic is treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference, independently of its sender, recipient, type, content, device, service or application’. such a definition of net neutrality, and the following amendments to lay out concrete measures to ensure the corresponding implementation, will provide citizens with guarantees that their interaction on the internet will not be subject to profiled and ungrounded controls that could be in breach of data protection and privacy laws.
in writing. - the respected director, good colleagues! at today's plenary session, i supported the principle of net neutrality and the abolition of roaming charges, which will improve mobility in europe. the decision supports both open internet and investment in networks. the abolition of roaming charges is an important milestone for europeans, making it much easier to travel and move within the union and, among other things, to make life easier for families working in other member states. while roaming charges can be a simple source of revenue for businesses, they significantly restrict people's use of the internet and telephones, which have become a matter of course for many. a study commissioned by the commission shows that 70% of consumers limit their calls while in another member state and even 90% of consumers do not use the internet while abroad. such figures should have no place in a common market in the european union, which should promote the well-being of its citizens, not stifle it. the fact that consumers no longer have to worry about the size of their telephone bill will certainly increase trust in service providers. second, net neutrality is an ambitious but necessary objective to ensure that users have access to an open, uninterrupted internet while allowing undertakings to offer certain specific services. thirdly, i am happy to see the introduction of e-identification throughout europe, as i am from the so-called e-country. by making the telecommunications market more competitive and consumer-friendly, we will remove barriers and simplify the lives of our citizens, which is the aim of the european union!
in writing. - in order to make the internal market of the european union more efficient and to ensure that the free market economy is also a reality, i supported this report, which aims to increase competition in the banking sector. i believe that the right to open a basic payment account for any citizen of the european union who wishes to do so in another member state without having a residence permit in that member state will achieve that objective and reduce the excessive profits of banks. in order to make it easier for customers to find a suitable bank, information on the cost of opening an account and on interest rates should be freely available and understandable. it is certainly important that customers have the possibility to switch easily and cheaply between service providers, which ensures the functioning of the free market economy in this area. i hope that the member states will soon give their approval to this report, thinking first of all of the interests of consumers and of the achievement of our common objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the funding for smes from the horizon 2020 research and development programme, notably under the industrial leadership chapter, has been essentially increased, reaching eur[nbsp ]287 million between 2014 and 2020 compared to the previous mff. the trilogue outcome foresees greater synergies, increasing coordination and avoiding unnecessary duplication with international, national and regional research programmes. as research funding in the eu and member states is still lagging behind, it is very important to ensure that any funding is being used reasonably and efficiently. the programme should meet the real needs of smes and keep a bottom-up nature, following a business-driven agenda, with its main focus on market potential. eu programmes have to meet reality and offer complementary means of achieving goals such as smart economy, creating jobs etc. one of the main obstacles for smes in using eu funding has been excessive bureaucracy. this decision aims to reduce both administrative bureaucracy and administrative costs. it outlines – in accordance with the aim of simplification – that administrative and bureaucratic burdens should be reduced for all parties. double audits and excessive documentation and reports should be avoided.
in writing. – around 1 million workers are being posted around europe. the rules governing their rights and obligations are fragmented and often the workers face precarious working conditions and/or are subject to arbitrary controls. this directive will lay the ground for concrete measures on control when inspecting foreign companies, clarify the question of liability and ensure that workers are duly paid for their work. once the concrete control measures are in place, the member states will be obliged to communicate those to the european commission, whereas the freedom and flexibility of which measures to apply is fully up to the member states, provided those are justified and proportionate. the directive foresees also enhanced cooperation between member states through the imi online application that will allow national, regional and local authorities to communicate quickly with their counterparts abroad. another improvement will be creating a single national website in each member state. currently many workers and companies are lost in finding accurate information on rights and duties. this will ensure that everyone has equal access to all information in their respective national language.
mr president, the eu’s reaction to russia’s military revanchism is lagging at least two stages behind putinʼs moves. hesitations and divisions in the eu are bound to encourage the aggressor. let us recall that ukrainians did not hesitate to demonstrate their will to join europe, defying all risks and sacrifices. are they now being victimised for that? first any steps to stop aggression should cause the aggressor real pain. the iran-style sanctions should be applied now: oleg orlov has said that the number of those on a blacklist should start at 300 at least. second, all arms trade with russia should be stopped immediately. the infamous mistral bargain is still pending and the french government should make it clear now that these attack warships will never be delivered to russia. third, putin’s invasion of ukraine was preceded by his corrupt regime exporting corruption to europe for years. there are so many shady, pragmatic, selfish interests and deals which are betraying and undermining the eu’s solidarity, common values and ability to act decisively. the way we finally react to russia’s aggression will decide our own future: how we stick to the original values of the european union. (applause)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. europe´s economy is based on entrepreneurial philosophy. eighty-five per cent of newly-created jobs come from smes and 67% of private sector jobs are in the sme sector, of which 30% are to be accounted to micro enterprises. the report underlines the need for reforms to address the question of skills, levels of qualification, entrepreneurship, the impact of demographic change, market access, finance, and labour market, rights at work, administrative costs and better regulation. the basis of everything is skilled workers with high work efficiency. we have to focus on life-long and life-wide learning to ensure that we can adequately face the change into a skill-intensive labour market. education systems need to be reformed to match the european realities. eu statistics shows how even today 20% of workers have low literacy and numeracy skills and at least 25% has very low digital literacy. building synergies between states, schools, universities and businesses to jointly develop adequate curricula, especially digital curricula, will be determinant in ensuring both labour market and sme future sustainability. also, europe needs to promote, in general, an entrepreneurial spirit, starting from the earliest age possible and offering mentoring programmes both for young entrepreneurs and also for women entrepreneurs.
mr president, ‘growth’ and ‘jobs’ are two key words but you cannot have growth by avoiding or delaying structural reforms and not boosting competitiveness. you cannot have growth by simply trying to change the existing rules. in this chamber there are two recent prime ministers from latvia and estonia who have proved that balancing the budget, conducting reforms and restoring growth are complementary. it is doable. i have a question to the commission. i am afraid mr barroso has left, but he said that we lack implementation. by 2014 – that is, by the end of this year – the internal energy market has to be completed. is that doable? can we hope that it will happen, or what are the problems? lastly, on ukraine: we cannot deal with ukraine without addressing squarely our relationship with russia. russia has committed aggression against ukraine. that aggression is continuing in the form of a proxy war to destabilise not only ukraine but all our eastern neighbourhood policies. until now, putin has been allowed to set the agenda or to choose his tactics. two measures are necessary: first, to stop all arms trade with russia; and, second, to establish tight control over russia’s corrupt money which has invaded europe.
in writing. while the european council was focusing on the theoretically empty question of who would become the head of the european commission, 400 russian navy sailors arrived in the french port of saint-nazaire on the cruiser smolny to begin training for the two mistral-type attack ships to be commissioned into the russian navy. the sale of the property was concluded after the russian aggression against georgia in 2008 and shows that paris believes that nothing happened, although president sarkozy made personal efforts to negotiate peace terms at the time. three years later, he signed a contract to sell it. president hollande says he's just fulfilling contracts and that's all. he seems to have no recollection that only a few months ago, russia occupied the territory of its independent neighbor ukraine, called the crimea peninsula, whose capital sevastopol is named after the french-russian arms deal so spiritually for the second mistral-type ship. territory whose belonging to the ukrainian state was to be guaranteed by the same france among other major powers. could there be any greater hypocrisy? i have said that the european union could finally start to create a common security and defence policy, the central mission of which, the atalanta, would need french mistral platforms in the horn of africa. let's buy them from the paris government and implement them in a proper european spirit, but, for god's sake, let's not allow them to be sold to an aggressive russia, autocratically run by a former kgb officer. ceterum censeo, france still bitterly regrets its foolish decision to sell arms to russia.
madam president, today we begin a historic part-session. tomorrow we can vote for a more democratic europe, in which the leadership is decided by popular vote. we can accept this or we can reject it and return to backroom deals. we have but one chance to change the governance of europe. let us not miss it. i call on all my colleagues to support jean-claude juncker as the next president of the european commission.
in writing. it is commendable that mr juncker has promised to bring the common defence and security policy out of the shadows, but before that, the arms trade between paris and moscow should be resolutely stopped. it is inconceivable that the export needs of the arms industry of one member state should be placed above the security needs of the member states bordering the baltic and black seas. ceterum censeo, the french still bitterly regret their decision to sell the mistral to aggression-loving authoritarian russia.
blue-card question. – i want to ask about whether there is really time to talk about more urgent measures, because news is coming in about the approaching humanitarian crisis in donetsk. the leaders of the separatists have said that there will be an evacuation of 100 000 people from donetsk. what is going on there is a humanitarian crisis and a provocation that could then be a pretext for a russian invasion. we all know how this pattern is working. i think this is not the time to talk about what we did wrongly earlier on, but it is time to talk about what we can do urgently to help ukraine stabilise the situation and to stop the provocations.
mr president, i welcome the line taken by the june european council on ukraine. however, i also expect the european council this week to endorse further steps vis-à-vis russia. russia’s actions have dramatically changed the european security environment. this was the main concern during the elections to the european parliament in my constituency and elsewhere. there cannot be any business as usual with russia, as russia is not doing business as usual with europe.
in writing. – eu-us economic relations include enormous unused potential. together they make up half of global gdp and 30 % of world trade (2012). the transatlantic economy is responsible for 15 million jobs and eur 497 billion in trade flows. if the ttip comes into force it will bring the eu overall annual gdp gains of 0.5 % extra (eur 119 billion, eur 545 per eu household). it is forecast that it would not only benefit directly the eu and us, but would also contribute eur 100 billion to global gdp. it would boost the labour market on both sides of the ocean and create extra opportunities for small- and medium-sized enterprises. the main importance lies in the fact that the ttip would not only boost economies but would provide significant new momentum for political relations. the eu and the usa are the backbones of international democracy and leading forces in a free and liberal global arena. certain controversial issues like data protection need to be addressed in a responsible way. however, they should not be used as pretexts to slow down overall progress and turn attention away from the crucial economic and strategic benefits successful conclusion of the ttip will provide.
madam president, thanks to siim kallas, who acted many, many years ago as prime minister of estonia, we have in our country quite a good maternity allowance system under which our young mothers and fathers get their average salary for one and a half years. i welcome the commission’s decision, which respects the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i firmly believe that every member state can itself best decide which system is best to serve its needs. member states face different demographic, economic and social conditions. even if the eu’s actions could be justified in some aspects, the need to respect those differences remains. our legislative action should focus on completing the digital single market and energy union.
madam president, i want to really congratulate our lithuanian friends because this is a major achievement, not of the government, but of the lithuanian people. i am especially glad that this has happened now when, next month, we will be celebrating 25 years of the baltic chain. i am happy that the baltic chain is again united and we are now united in a new way, in a new europe, and that we are all ready to go further, together, in the common baltic and nordic economic, political and value space. so congratulations from me and from all estonian socialists and democrats.
madam president, lithuania’s euro adoption is a remarkable achievement, both for this beautiful country and for our union. it shows that the foundations of our currency union are solid, that the work done by all the actors during the crisis has borne fruit. it shows that membership of the euro area is seen as a prerequisite for growth and economic prosperity. again, i wish to extend my warmest welcome to the euro area to lithuania.
in writing. i support this resolution on youth employment because youth unemployment is a current and urgent problem, especially in view of the ageing population. it is of the utmost importance to keep the state finances in good order so that the investments of the state come. and it's the investments that create jobs. estonia has the lowest government debt in the european union and has been a rather attractive destination for foreign direct investment. in addition, both general and youth unemployment in estonia are below the eu average. nevertheless, relatively high youth unemployment is also a major problem in estonia. i firmly believe that the best way to combat unemployment is through education. in estonia, there is a strong correlation between unemployment and education levels the unemployment rate is lower among people with higher education. this confirms that we should encourage even more european union education programmes such as comenius, erasmus, grundtvig and leonardo da vinci. and, even more importantly, to promote the free movement of labour as a whole within the european union. thank you!
in writing. - i supported lithuania’s adoption of the euro. it will strengthen lithuania’s position at the political and economic core of europe. estonia joined the euro area in 2011 and this step has proved clearly beneficial for us. our three-year experience in the currency area is a positive example of how the euro allows for the enhancement of economic ties with the rest of europe. namely, the euro brought stability and made the economy attractive to foreign direct investment, which has further helped in creating jobs. the unemployment rate in estonia is lower than the average in the eu. in addition, the euro has clearly supported trade – 70% of estonia’s exports go to other eu member states. last but not least, the euro was and is beneficial for ordinary people. during the time of the estonian kroon, 90% of all credit was taken in euros: those people no longer have to worry about currency risk. i strongly believe that lithuania will benefit in the same way estonia has. it is my great pleasure to extend a warm welcome to lithuania in the euro area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of lithuania joining the eurozone, and i am overwhelmed by the fact that 545 colleagues supported lithuania’s adoption of the euro, thus paving the way for lithuania to join the eurozone on 1 january 2015. this marks the final success of lithuania’s efforts to comply with the common rules on fiscal and economic discipline. it is also a further clear proof that the eurozone is viable and continues to grow. poland too is on its way to join in the foreseeable future. lithuania was the third baltic state to join the eurozone, reminding the european community that it requires political will and commitment to further european integration, to conduct structural reforms, to ensure budgetary balance and to abstain from spending resources that are not available. i welcome our lithuanian friends to the eurozone. another contribution has been made to reliable fiscal discipline in practice.
in writing. i supported lithuania joining the euro because i think it's the only right thing to do for a small country. we must not forget that the european union is both an economic and a monetary union. as lithuania is an open economy, like estonia and latvia, which have already joined the euro area, joining the single currency area will bring economic benefits. first, it removes the currency risk for investors and increases confidence, and second, it increases the inflow of money into the local economy. we are stronger together. thank you!
mr president, iraq faces an existential crisis and its integrity is clearly at stake. the question is how was it possible that some groups of terrorists were able to take control of large parts of such a country within a few weeks? i think the responsibility lies with the iraqi government too. in the past eight years the al-maliki government has failed to form a coalition which would encompass all sectors of iraqi society. instead the sunni community has been marginalised, the kurds have been denied meaningful participation and there has been increasing reliance on iran’s support. as a result al-maliki’s government has crucially weakened its support in the north of the country and weakened also the motivation to oppose the terrorists. i think the key to the solution is to form a new government of national reconciliation which should extend the hand of cooperation to moderate sunnis and also kurdish leaders. the eu should use all available means and press the iraqi political forces to achieve this end. we call also on the commission to extend more humanitarian aid than the recently increased sum of eur 12 million. there are almost 2 million internally displaced persons; a fresh wave of half a million refugees has left mosul and 86% of them are in immediate need of housing and core relief items. the kurdish authorities especially, who have to host the bulk of refugees, need assistance. finally, i am very much worried about the fate and future of the christian communities in iraq whose numbers have decreased by two thirds in nine years. more than 300 000 have been left facing continued harassment and persecution. actually it is the christians who do not resort to violence; who are vital in restoring dialogue, building bridges and mediating conflicts, providing healthcare and education to all people in need. in fact they perform an integrating role in a sectarian society and it is in our common interest to help them. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for this question but this is also my question. i think we share this worry, and the fate of christians in the middle east has not been decided yet.
author. - madam president, we are discussing a problem in a nutshell: meriam ibrahim’s story reflects a question of principle of universal validity, and the application and practice of such a basic human freedom as freedom of religion and belief, including the freedom to change or abandon a religion. there is ever growing concern that in numerous islamic states this freedom is seen as a one-way street while the other way, the possibility of converting from islam to any other religion, is treated as the gravest possible offence. only two months ago meriam ibrahim, being eight months pregnant, was sentenced by a sudanese court to 100 lashes for so-called adultery, that is for having married a christian husband, and apostasy, that is for refusing to convert to islam. we call on the sudanese government which has ratified all relevant human rights conventions to allow meriam and her family to leave the country immediately for safety reasons, and to repeal any legal provisions that penalise individuals for their religious beliefs and to introduce an immediate moratorium on all executions.
in writing. - i welcome the line taken by the june european council on ukraine and agree with the resolution. in spite of the very concrete and clear 27 june conclusions and the deadline set there is no real progress in fulfilling them. it is right to provide russia with possibilities to prove it is cooperating in solving the crisis in ukraine but we cannot keep postponing our decisions on reaction measures indefinitely yet again. furthermore, instead of fulfilling the conditions and cooperating with ukraine we are seeing precisely the opposite: russia continues to supply the separatists with forces and weapons. the eu should clearly state that any retaliatory measures by russia will not be tolerated and will have serious consequences. by now we should be ready to implement more targeted sanctions, including no (new) investments, suspension of different forms of eu financial support, new sector projects and programmes, no high-tech or new technology as well as an arms embargo. we see the sanctions as mostly having a preventive rather than a punitive effect. we may face very serious and direct consequences in the future as russia sees that no real steps will be taken no matter what.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. i would like to especially highlight the importance of paragraph 12 of the ep joint resolution that suggests and supports preparations for introducing further sanctions against russia, including the economic, financial and energy sectors. it is especially important to immediately apply an arms and dual-use technology embargo, which means a collective ban on the sale of arms to russia from any member state, to be maintained until the situation in eastern ukraine has fully normalised. i welcome the us administration taking an important step further by introducing new sanctions covering the financial and energy sector. the eu must follow suit without any further delay. i especially call on the member states and council to set an embargo on arms and dual-use technology and a collective ban on the sale of arms to russia. in the current situation it is absolutely crucial not to provide an aggressor with high-tech weaponry that can be used against ukraine or possibly also against others in europe. therefore i call strongly for a halt to the mistral deal that would give russia all the means to attack ukraine also from the sea.
in writing. - i am deeply concerned that the murderous armed conflict in ukraine has recently shown the signs of its rapid deterioration and internationalization. there are numerous reports that refer to the suffering of the civilian population in the course of military action, which was also confirmed by osce monitoring and international human rights organizations. the number of internally displaced persons and refugees is on the rise in ukraine and neighboring countries. the situation is on edge of humanitarian catastrophe. against such background any decision of the eu body shall be based on the principles of the protection of human rights, international humanitarian law and european values. eu shall be even more demanding dealing with those who claim to share with us european values. in the resolution there is a clear demand to all parties of the conflict to rectify the poor situation of the civilian population, to respect international humanitarian law and international human rights law. however, in general the text is unbalanced and may leave an impression that eu is taking sides in the armed conflict where all parties shall be objects of principled criticism. several important allegations in the document are not sufficiently substantiated. therefore i did not find it possible to vote in support of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the youth employment resolution because i consider it particularly necessary to move the age limit for beneficiaries of the youth unemployment measure from 24 to 30.
in writing. - i support the resolution because the deteriorating security situation in iraq is extremely worrying. i condemn the violent attacks by the extremist group islamic state of iraq and the levant and other extremist groups of the coercive nature. the human rights violations committed during the attacks, such as the execution of captured soldiers and the violence directed against civilians and civilian objects, are particularly reprehensible. the deepening humanitarian crisis, with the large influx of refugees resulting from the conflict, is also a cause for concern. the iraqi government must make efforts to protect civilians, ensure the safety of internally displaced persons and ensure that humanitarian aid reaches all those in need. iraq is a key partner for the european union in the middle east. i consider important the continued contribution of the european union to the stabilisation and democratisation process in iraq, building on the partnership and cooperation agreement signed in may 2012.
in writing. - i support the resolution because i support the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of iraq, which are necessary for the stability and economic development of the country itself and the region as a whole. i call on the central government of iraq and the government of the autonomous kurdistan region of iraq to cooperate closely for the sake of stability in the country. the security crisis in iraq can only be resolved through genuine dialogue between the shiites, sunnis and kurds.
in writing. - i support the resolution because i unequivocally condemn the bombing of israel and the kidnapping of jewish teenagers in june. the situation between israel and palestine is very tense. we call on the parties to take all measures to avoid a further escalation of the situation. the european union must help with initiatives that will lead to a settlement. i welcome the egyptian government's proposal for a ceasefire and hope that it will be implemented. this is another example of how violence can flare up at any time without a lasting solution. i believe that a prerequisite for lasting peace is the recognition by palestinian political forces of israel's right to exist as a state.
in writing. - i support the resolution and hope that there will be an opportunity to continue the peace talks. i am not in favor of unilateral action and i continue to believe that a lasting peace in the middle east is possible through a two-state solution. 2.05 the palestinian authority (pa) and the palestinian authority (pa) have signed a joint declaration on the peace process in the middle east. due to the military operation in gaza, substantial day-to-day cooperation is currently suspended. i hope we can continue to work together. i call on the parties to the conflict to find peaceful solutions. the european union must help the parties to the conflict to find solutions that will lead to lasting peace.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the crime of aggression. today we endorsed the resolution about the situation in ukraine. crime of aggression is not a theoretical matter. it is something we have to face in europe today. thus, i would like to endorse all steps that strengthen the international criminal court and the advance of the global justice system. eu must continue to support the icc both politically and diplomatically, as well as logistically and financially.
mr president, we need first of all to face reality. this is not a matter of incursions by some russian troops into ukrainian territory: war and aggression are going on, and war crimes are being committed. so, if we rely on a truce we face a dilemma. last week, some member states appeared to rely on a truce simply in order to have an excuse to delay further sanctions. the question is whether we need reliable sanctions to secure genuine peace – not merely a truce – because mr putin will certainly not dismantle his neo-imperialist agenda by himself. last week mr chizhov, his ambassador to the eu, told euronews that crimea’s belonging to ukraine was a historic aberration which had been rectified. i have not heard any comments, but if we continue in this way then tomorrow mr putin will declare that the restoration of independence to the soviet-occupied baltic states was an aberration which has to be rectified. i fully agree with my colleague ms kalniete that, following the annexation of crimea, arms deals between western firms and russia are still operational and that they should be stopped, including the mistral warship deliveries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the fact that we can adopt the association agreement between the european union and ukraine today is indeed a very strong sign of support for those ukrainians - and i would particularly like to emphasise the young generation in ukraine - who have been prepared to fight for ukraine's accession to europe at the cost of their lives, for ukraine's recognition as a european nation, a european society, a european state. at the same time, however, we should always see the broader context in which the russian aggression is taking place, russia's fight against such developments. this context is actually related to russia's new geopolitical strategy, which we should analyze, not really be blue-eyed and naive and think that we can continue on our own way, when in fact russia is already acting differently. the way russia is behaving is very dangerously reminiscent of what happened in 1938-39. i agree with mr. telicka on this. another example of this is the current provocation that took place on the estonian-russian border, where russian security forces actually kidnapped an estonian defense police officer and are planning a model trial in moscow similar to the trials that took place in moscow in the late 1930s. i think we need to be vigilant. we must be united in all such cases, all such provocations.
in writing. during the 7th parliamentary term, i raised the issue of the sale of the french mistral-type ships, its cynical basis and its negative impact on european security at least 25 times. i already pointed this out when president sarkozy announced his intentions. i am glad that a large number of colleagues have reached the same conclusion today, and i urge others to recognize this and to influence france to cancel the transaction. of course we will show solidarity with france. we cannot ignore the costs that have already been incurred. the only right thing for the eu would be to buy out the ships together with france and hand them over as a so-called seed for an eu fleet within the framework of the eu's common security and defence policy. other, including mixtures of nuts france will bitterly regret if these ships are handed over to russia ... and even more france should already regret the decision to let the ship vladivostok sail out of the port of st. lazare with a russian crew. the russian sailors may get lost during their training trip and end up in the port of sevastopol, for example.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to strongly welcome the eu-ukraine association agreement. i hope that the european parliament will give its consent with a large majority. the armed conflict in the eastern ukraine has resulted in over 3000 military and civilian casualties, but it has also resulted in major economic costs, including the cost of rebuilding the eastern regions. ukraine needs a political and negotiated resolution of the conflict. for that it is necessary that the russian federation withdraw all its troops from ukraine. it also needs eu support. i believe this agreement is a great opportunity for eu-ukraine economic relations, for the economic development of ukraine, but it is also a great opportunity for ukraine to further consolidate its efforts to strengthen the rule of law, fight against corruption and guarantee compliance with human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of ratifying the association agreement between the european union and ukraine. few eu policies have been as important and with such long-term consequences as this issue, which is why it is also important to keep the eu-ukraine relationship focused and clear-cut. the european union is giving the ukrainian people an opportunity and an invitation to closer interaction. the european parliament must guide eu policy and support the people of ukraine and their elected president, and fully support not only the ratification of the association agreement but also its entry into force as soon as possible. after the events of the last few months, it is clear that russia is not hiding its intentions and has used military force to achieve its political goals no concessions or delays have brought the expected result, but have encouraged the russian leadership to take even more aggressive steps. the fact that there is a ceasefire today and that russia is ready to negotiate is the result of clear political steps by the eu and our allies and the growing sanctions. in addition to the sacrifices made by ukraine to associate with the european union, the least the eu can do is to ratify this agreement and ensure that it is fully implemented.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eu-ukraine association agreement. it is important that both parliaments gave their approval to exactly the same text that was prepared for the 2013 november vilnius summit. nothing was changed in it. i see it as a clear sign that both the eu and ukraine are by now committed to join in the european space of role of law and reforms. however, there will be a disappointing delay in implementing the agreement which was decided unexpectedly only on 12 september. having secured the role of a third partner, russia can also have wide scope to interfere in bilateral eu-ukraine relations, introducing its own terms. it also means russia has a chance to continue destabilisation of ukraine. on the other hand, those in ukraine who are hesitant about starting radical structural reforms could see the delay as a suitable excuse to neglect their commitments, as happened after the orange revolution. however, i am glad that the european parliament with an overwhelming majority demonstrated its commitment towards ukraine and its european choice.
in writing. - the eu-ukraine association agreement is the first constructive step taken by the european union since the beginning of the ukrainian crisis. ukraine is on the verge of a humanitarian catastrophe and needs urgent help. by signing the agreement, europe is already taking on certain moral and political obligations tomorrow and is also giving the ukrainian people hope that the situation will improve. however, this is more of a political decision at the moment, as it will be some time before we start talking about association as such.
what does the council have to say to our universities, research institutes, etc., about the fact that they have done the work and spent the money, but we are not going to pay? there's no payment coming in. what excuses and excuses are they going to make for not keeping deadlines and promises? perhaps it would be more appropriate, even than to criticise the commission, to admit frankly that despite the incessant and high-flying rhetoric about the importance of innovation and research, the heads of state and government are not really that interested in these things. my colleague claude turmes has already made the irony of this situation clear. i'm not gonna say it again. i only hope that perhaps mr tusk, as president of the european council, will be able to take the bull by the horns.
mr president, the completion of the digital single market has been and still is one of the priorities of the alde group, as my colleague already mentioned, as it has the potential to increase economic growth in europe and create hundreds of thousands of new jobs. i also take the opportunity to welcome the nomination of andrus ansip as vice-president designate for the digital single market, estonia being at the forefront of the digital economy. his task will not be easy. i am worried about the comments that the european leaders have made that could greatly undermine the open internet and development of our economy. this trend is caused by the digital domination of the united states. but overregulating and over controlling the internet will simply destroy innovation. the digital single market is still very much fragmented and, overall, current regulations on digital services do not encourage solutions, but rather deter the creation of innovative start-ups. this needs to be reviewed. i, of course, strongly believe in high standards of data privacy, but also that it is by creating a european network that is internet-friendly, boosts innovation and favours the creation of european companies that we will better ensure that the european standards of data protection are met.
as an estonian, i am very pleased that the new vice-president of the european commission, who will be dealing with the digital market, is also from estonia. we have a lot of experience to offer in terms of going far enough with services that the commission has only been talking about as a dream. for example, electronic invoices, digital signatures - this is our everyday life. we can talk about the problems that are already there. we have really run into a lot of problems with the fact that there is no digital single market. we could offer a lot more to the whole of europe if we had a market like this. in fact, i would like to emphasize that the problems of this market are not just economic problems. what my predecessor said is very important. there is a very important cultural and educational aspect that is not talked about. i'm actually concerned that the commission's digital agenda is very much the economic hub. the timeframe is very tight and we in parliament should be able to extend it and also see how we can work with several committees. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs is currently dealing with data protection, the committee on culture and education with media content creation and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection with all market-related matters. we could, in fact, complement and balance the european commission's rather narrow mandate, which is solely market, economic and technological, with the cooperation of our committees. i think that our role here is precisely to show and to bring solutions to these very complex common problems in cooperation with the commission.
in writting. – i would like to thank michel barnier for the commission statement. this statement on the digital single market underlines the urgency faced by europe. the digital economy moves at a far faster pace than politicians and officials are accustomed to, and europe is playing catch up. completing the digital single market is particularly close to my heart. as prime minister, i co-wrote a letter with colleagues from three countries that first introduced the term to the european council. building the digital single market was among my government’s top priorities toward the eu. i am excited to continue this work as a member of jean-claude juncker’s team in the new commission. during the first six months of our mandate, we will propose ambitious legislative steps towards a connected digital single market. this will not be easy. the outgoing commission and previous parliament worked hard to break down national silos in telecoms regulation, copyright and data protection legislation, the management of radio waves and consumer rules, and encountered many barriers. to succeed now, we will need the strong contribution and support of the parliament.
in writing. – i am glad that for the first time digital issues get such a prominent position among eu policies. a vice-president for the digital single market and a commissioner for the digital economy and society have been designated. coordinated digitalisation of the eu must become one of the new commission’s priorities. as initiator of the ep’s first report on cyber security and defence, i can give an assurance that meps are committed to working closely with the ec and the council to achieve real progress. three main issues have to be solved: 1. full integration of the digital single market – we need a full set of joint eu rules. this means removing obstacles for cross-border e-commerce, first of all eliminating differentiations in the e-sphere based on country of origin and opening up borders separating national digital markets. i call on member states to fully cooperate in establishing a respective legal framework without further delay. 2. secure cyber space – involving both companies and public sector – is required to apply the highest standards to protect critical networks and information. the nis directive can solve part of this, but one needs further advances in the public sector. 3. for member states, it should become their highest priority to complete national cyber-security strategies and prepare national digital agendas.
in writing. – i welcome the eu's serious concern about the ebola outbreak since the epidemic constitutes a global risk. over 2.100 people have died from the ebola virus in countries including guinea, liberia, nigeria and sierra leone, not only in rural areas, but in the largest cities as well. however, there are people infected with ebola outside these countries too. the estonian ministry of foreign affairs has already provided 50.000 euros to help the world health organization (who) prevent the deadly viral illness from spreading further in west africa. we need to coordinate a global response and it is imperative we try to control the outbreak and prevent economic, social and political impacts.
madam president, we face the challenge of a most serious international crisis with hundreds of thousands driven from their homes, borders between states having ceased to exist, and genocide committed against civilians, religious and ethnic groups. among these groups are many of the oldest christian communities in the region who are now treated as foreigners to be killed or ousted. we have to really perceive what is happening. people are being indiscriminately murdered, tortured, sold as slaves and forced to flee in masses. to counter this new level of terrorism and crimes against humanity, declarations do not suffice. we need concrete actions, efficient international coordination, and also the use of force, because terrorists can be contained only by united political will and better arms. the american airstrikes have made a difference but it is not enough. yesterday eight christian leaders in iraq called for the deployment of international troops on the ground, because airstrikes by themselves cannot defeat terrorists who are fighting among the local population. as a minimum, the international community must create safe havens in iraq and syria where refugees could have security and minimal assistance. at the moment the main issue is to assist refugees and repel terrorists, but our next commitment and responsibility is to ultimately guarantee the return of christian communities and all traditional minorities to their place of origin, so that they can resume living there in dignity, equality and safety, freely practising their religion. finally, it is crucial to strike at the financial supplies of is. substantial resources come to them from the illegal sale of oil – it is estimated usd 2 billion a day – from the occupied areas of iraq and syria. it is sold below the market price and also reaches eu countries. we call for eu sanctions targeting all intermediaries, beneficiaries and governments, as well as companies involved in the transportation, refinement and selling of oil stolen by is, parallel with clamping down on illegal financial flows. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – this is one of the points of my message: that we need to prepare the ground and networks, and how we guarantee the future of these communities. we cannot allow a state of affairs in which we just recognise them as additional refugees who will settle abroad. we need to concentrate our efforts – and that should be international efforts – to help return them to the places where they have been living.
in writing. – i supported the resolution on the situation in ukraine and the state of play of eu-russia relations. our discussion could not be more timely in light of everything going on in and around ukraine. the decisive steps that the eu and the us and others have taken in response to russiaʼs behaviour have brought some results, but it is important to think what more can be done to support ukraine. i see this very much as a two-track approach. we must continue to look for a lasting solution to this conflict through political dialogue. but as long as russia continues to send weapons and soldiers to ukraine, we cannot take russian demands seriously. russia is trying to impose a solution on ukraine through military means while it should in fact take responsibility and admit that it is a party to the conflict. it must take real steps that will lead to a de-escalation of the conflict. until russia does so, we must continue to maintain pressure. we need to be clear and consistent in the language that we use to describe the situation on the ground – this is russian aggression against ukraine.
in writing. – i decided not to support the resolution for the following reasons. first, the resolution largely ignores the fact that the ukraine crisis is essentially a civil war, even if with significant involvement by foreign actors. second, in the period of the long-expected ceasefire the resolution justifies the logic of sanctions which proved to be inefficient in the case of such a complicated partner as russia. furthermore, existing sanctions and calls for new sanctions may undermine the fragile peace process in ukraine. third, the resolution does not pay enough attention to the issue of human rights violations by all parties involved into the conflict. i am especially worried that the signals sent to the ukrainian government in this respect are too vague to be taken seriously. fourth, some statements in the resolution are based on media reports, low-quality analytics and/or based on information from biased or unreliable sources.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the situation in iraq and syria and the isis offensive. i condemn the violent attacks by isis and other extremist groups in iraq and syria. we must avoid the mistakes made during the previous iraqi government, when the representation of many groups in the government was insufficient, which paved the way for the emergence of isis. i hope that the new iraqi prime minister, mr hayder al-ibad, will succeed in rapidly forming a government that will represent the interests of all the groups in the country in a democratic way. close cooperation between moderate political forces against common security threats is essential. it is also essential to respond swiftly and decisively to the growing humanitarian crisis. i must stress the importance of continuing to support the neighbouring countries of syria and iraq in their efforts to welcome refugees.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. the crisis in iraq and syria caused by the islamic state is one of the most severe in recent human history and can be called only by its true nature – a targeted genocide and religious cleansing against different minorities, religious and ethnic in iraq and syria, with the aim of eliminating everyone not eligible for the is fighters. only joint international efforts can bring relief into this conflict and reduce the level of violence. the epp group has called for the establishing of special safe havens for refugees where they can be protected and provided with at least minimum means to live. i call again on the eu and its member states to assist iraqi and local authorities by all possible means, including military assistance, to contain and repel the terrorist and aggressive is expansion. we also need to effectively end the terrorism-tourism where fighters depart from the eu countries to commit crimes against humanity and then return and spread hatred around our communities. the eu cannot feed this violence! it is our moral and human obligation to stop the massacres in iraq and syria and prevent them from spreading further in the region.
in writing. – i supported the resolution on the situation in libya. libya is at the moment a so called ʽfailed stateʼ and this is a considerable problem for the eu: from uncontrolled immigration to military actions and a favourable ground for all kinds of radicalism. therefore it is important that at this moment we concentrate our attention on the creation of stable and suitable intra-state actors with whom it is possible to communicate and to plan assistance to bring this country back to a controlled state.
mr president, tomorrow at the same time, we will hopefully have a new commission with vice-president katainen in office. however, the member states will remain the same. the most worrying aspect of the dramatically changed security situation is the still insufficient and very often fragile unity in the council. as for energy, three years ago the eu heads of government decided to set the current year, 2014, as a clear deadline for the completion of an internal energy market. by the next year, they planned to leave no isolated areas which depended only on supplies from third countries. this applies in particular to the baltic states and finland. well, all is on track. the commission action plans have been published and updated. however, the end of the year is close, while we are still talking and preparing plans. therefore, i call on the next council to face the new realities. any delay in completion of the internal energy market will directly undermine our common security. as for security, russia’s systematic military provocations in the baltic sea area have to be addressed efficiently and with convincing determination. sanctions remain the most reliable means to stop and prevent further russian expansion. therefore, it would be most counter-productive to cherish any illusions about relaxing sanctions. the fragile minsk ceasefire agreement is not the only criterion. sanctions can be eased only if the kremlin is able and willing to fully withdraw from the occupied territories and to fully respect the sovereignty of its neighbours.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the greens agree with mr deprez’s line to link debt one with debts three and four. without that link, it will be almost impossible to move ahead with the 2015 budget. the national contribution to the eu budget was eur 110.8 billion in 2013, and this year it will be eur 90.4 billion. that means the member states are saving at least eur 10 billion. yet they claim that they are unable to pay debt three. the council must see how irresponsibly it is behaving. as mr fernandez said, ‘pacta sunt servanda.’ if the council does not understand that reality, then i am sorry but i am forced to quote another ancient roman, who said ‘ceterum censeo, consilio delenda est.’
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, during the negotiations on the 2015 budget, my group strongly supported the need to focus on administration efficiency and selected priorities. savings cannot happen in one day, as we still need to have functioning eu institutions. that is why a budget increase for the court of justice is needed to deliver judgments on time, as delays simply hamper the functioning of the single market. the same goes for the budget of the external action service, as we need to provide further assistance to ukraine. as far as other institutions are concerned, any new spending or creation of posts should be more carefully thought through, as new posts create a snowball effect of new spending with a new need for offices and buildings. it is absolutely essential to apply fully the principles of administration efficiency and transparency on spending as this will help reinforce citizensʼ trust in the eu institutions.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, about forty minutes ago i was forced to quote the ancient roman, cato, and now mr zanetti has forced me to quote george orwell. because the way that the council depicts the budget reality would certainly have impressed big brother when it comes to propaganda. the council wants to make us believe that everything is fine; that the council is enhancing eu competitiveness, thus countering the effects of the crisis and making europe ready to face further tough globalisation challenges. in reality, thanks to the council, universities and research stakeholders will have to wait longer and longer in order to receive their eu funds. even more smes will go bankrupt because eu funds for their projects do not arrive and ngos will face even tougher bureaucratic hurdles as the commission will do everything possible to delay its payments as it simply does not have enough money to honour all its contracts – well ʽm. the result is clear. the eu institutions will become even less credible; maybe some in the council actually want this. the quality of eu research will go down and our smes will become less competitive. this is to say nothing of the victims of natural disasters and civil wars throughout the world. the council is telling them: do not count on the european union. on the other side, parliament has assumed its responsibilities and i would like to congratulate our rapporteurs for the excellent work they did. they can count on our group’s support in tomorrow’s vote, except for a few points where we have different views. for example, on the necessity to finance a very cost-intensive fusion energy plant which will only produce results in 2050, if at all. however, i am happy that thanks to the efforts of the green group the eu budget will be a little greener by reserving more funds for renewable energy, recycling activities and green entrepreneurial innovations.
madam president, we all know that the ukrainian conflict has resulted not only in more than 3 600 military and civilian casualties but also in major economic costs. that is why i strongly welcome this proposal today, as it aims to lower customs duties on goods from ukraine until december 2015, when the association agreement will enter into force. this is needed for ukraine’s economy, its businesses and its citizens. it is, however, a shame that it should be needed today because of the delay in applying the free trade elements of the association agreement, due to pressure from russia. russia should not have a say in eu-ukraine trade relations, and the commission needs to ensure that we do not end up in the same situation in december 2015 when the association agreement enters into force.
in writing. - i welcome the positive outcome of the vote on the next european commission. the commission now consists of a strong pro-european coalition and i applaud our liberal commissioners, amongst whom andrus ansip and margrethe vestager, who will hold important portfolios. we will, however, closely monitor that european values are respected by tibor navracsis, as well as the relationship between valdis dombrovskis and pierre moscovici who have similar competences in economic affairs.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have followed the debate with great interest, which comes at a politically opportune and dramatic moment in many respects, and i thank you for your comments. i am sure that the new high representative and vice-president, federica mogherini, to whom i wish success, will keep you informed of developments in political and security terms and of the european union's responses to the crisis in kobane and more generally in syria and iraq. the immediate priority is to support regional and international efforts to contain and defeat isis, in kobani and the rest of the region. today kobane is the symbol of resistance against isis, it needs to become for all syrians and iraqis the symbol of the possibility of defeating isis and ending its terrorist regime. we take note of the decision of the turkish government to facilitate the passage of iraqi kurdish peshmerga troops to come to the aid of syrian kurds defending kobane. i said at the beginning, and i repeat it in these conclusions, that it is essential that this decision be translated into concrete action as soon as possible. as regards humanitarian aid, the commission is considering a further major aid package. the european union will continue to support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of iraq and syria, to work to alleviate the suffering of all those affected by the fighting in these two countries, and to assist neighbouring countries, especially lebanon and jordan, which are facing enormous social and security challenges. on the issue of illicit oil trafficking, which has been raised on several occasions, isis is already designated by un sanctions, effective and concrete implementation of security council resolutions is essential for this and the european union is actively intervening with all regional actors to ensure compliance with these obligations. it will require a sustained commitment on our part and on the part of the international community. the foreign affairs council on monday asked the high representative and vice-president to develop a comprehensive strategy for syria and iraq and against the threat of isis, which takes into account the diplomatic and political dimensions, security issues, humanitarian aspects and socioeconomic development. the overall strategy will be drawn up by the end of the year. the european parliament has an important role to play in supporting this effort. your personal commitment to the defence of human rights and universal values is indispensable. i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and tell you that we are counting on your support today and in the months ahead. thank you for your attention.
in writing.– the world has turned a blind eye to violence against minority religious groups in the middle east for too long. the region has been systematically cleansed of its original inhabitants for decades. the difference with today lies merely in the scale – is is a threat to almost everyone, whereas earlier violence was better targeted and thus did not provoke such an outcry. joint actions by global players need to intensify to prevent is from gaining more ground. it is regrettable that in the kobane region turkey is playing more of an obstructive role than helping to stop the is militants. our commitment should be to help hundreds of thousands of refugees to safely return to their homes. creating a safe haven for them will be a precondition for starting a positive reverse process. returning home is the most human drive and it must be made possible. since mosul was taken in june, over 600 000 assyrians have fled, part being forced into exile. if we do not create conditions for their safety and stable future, we might witness the extinction of this 7000-year-old culture and its people. i regret that during last plenary the ep resolution on iraq, syria and is did not include a paragraph on safe havens as proposed by the epp.
madam president, i will also speak about the severe humanitarian crisis in ukraine. firstly, ukraine faces an energy crisis. in numerous ukrainian cities, including kiev, there is no hot-water supply and central heating may not work properly during the coming winter. the prices of utility services, including water, are rapidly increasing and people will be unable to pay bills. secondly, there are the consequences of the armed conflict. there are several hundred internally-displaced persons. some of them have no income and appropriate housing. their access to social and medical assistance is limited. in some parts of eastern ukraine, the local infrastructure has been destroyed. we can expect a serious shortage of food, and of food at an affordable price. thirdly, the general efficiency of the ukrainian state apparatus is hindered by large-scale corruption and inflated bureaucracy. the humanitarian situation in ukraine must be urgently addressed, in particular in the light of the eu-ukraine association agreement. however, any assistance has to be provided under scrutiny and with the technical assistance of the european institutions, while the ukrainian authorities prove to be inefficient in providing assistance to internally-displaced persons.
madam president, the request to shut down russia’s most respectable civil rights organisation could be seen as an attack against just one ngo. it could also be seen as suppressing human rights and civil society as a whole, because memorial has collected information about millions of victims of soviet totalitarian terror. there must be something that is irritating mr putin’s regime. according to orwell, he who controls the past can control the future, and he who controls the present – like memorial – will control the past. such action confirms only that the russian federation is not only the political but also the moral successor to the soviet empire, and that kremlin rulers will see independent civil society as its most dangerous enemy. we should oppose such an approach and defend memorial with all our forces.
madam president, i was very amused to hear mr buonanno’s explanations and understanding of the prosperity of democracy in russia. i am really scared if he thinks we should forget the organisation to which we gave the sakharov prize. i do believe that we must not limit ourselves today by merely adopting a resolution, but should also concentrate on follow-up activities. there are not many means in our hands, but if each one of us were, for instance, to send an e-mail to that great democrat, mr putin, that might annoy him a bit.
member of the commission. - madam president, human rights issues are central to our relationship with uzbekistan, and our policy as a commission is twofold. we insist that uzbekistan should comply with international human rights commitments but we also offer uzbekistan, as some of you have said, our cooperation to promote reforms, to move ahead and to break away from its past authoritarian legacy. the commission is now pursuing this reform agenda at a very delicate juncture. why? because elections are approaching, the regional perception of violent radicalism is acute and a general suspicion about external interference is setting in. all this hardly creates the kind of enabling environment that would be conducive to quick and bold reforms. moreover, there are many pending human rights issues which are of concern. so i would like to inform the house that it must rest assured that the very issues highlighted in its resolution, such as the torture of detainees, arbitrary detention, major restrictions on the freedom of association, assembly, expression and religion, child and forced labour, are precisely those that the european union has been raising on every occasion, including in high-level contexts and in our annual human rights dialogue. parliament can rest assured that the commission will do it again in our next human rights dialogue set for this november, with the aim of achieving concrete results and in this context. replying to the honourable mr smith, the commission will look into this issue which you address in paragraph 11 of the resolution. rest assured that we shall really look into this issue. today, i would like to emphasise one of the core issues at stake which were mentioned by some honourable members, namely child and forced labour. thanks to our insistence and facilitation efforts, constructive cooperation has now developed between uzbekistan and the international labour organization and tangible results have already been achieved on child labour, while cooperation has also started on forced labour under a decent work country programme agreed with the ilo. so we very much hope that uzbekistan will take the same positive approach in other areas. we stand ready to cooperate with the government of uzbekistan in any efforts that it undertakes to ensure compliance with its international commitments and in the implementation of recommendations that it has already voluntarily accepted during the universal periodic review process at the united nations human rights council. so, in conclusion, madam president, our policy of constructive engagement aims to build on what has been achieved on child labour with a view to bringing about similar advances in other areas of concern. of course, progress ultimately depends on the readiness of uzbekistan to engage not just in reforms but in meaningful reforms.
, in writing. – the situation in uzbekistan is appalling. the use of child labour, the harassment and imprisonment of human rights activists, civil society members and journalists, and discrimination against minorities are unacceptable. it is not difficult to see from where uzbekistan may take its example: from a strong regional player, namely russia. there, too, the situation is a gloomy one that should leave no room for euphemisms or for denial about human rights abuses. yet there are powerful eu countries which not only do not care, but which actually enable such behaviour. ceterum censeo, france will seriously regret its decision to sell mistral warships to russia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending regulation (eu) no 374/2014 on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine. this transitional solution for allowing goods from ukraine into european markets on favourable terms is the least we can do in the current situation. the amendment of the regulation is needed, as it would otherwise have ceased to apply as of 1 november 2014. nevertheless, i find it regrettable that this procedure should be needed, as instead we should have immediately and fully implemented the eu-ukraine association agreement and deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. the signal we are sending politically is like offering a quarter of a carrot. i urge the commission and the member states to provide all necessary assistance for speeding up reforms and building up a strong and viable ukraine.
in writing. - ukraine is facing a massive humanitarian crisis, with ordinary people suffering. unfortunately, european aid is very limited. in this situation, any aid to the ukrainian economy is welcome, so i support the resolution, even though it is an exceptional measure, because many eu member states are trying to do the same, in essence, and find alternatives to the russian market, because of the so-called counter-sanctions against russia.
in writing. – in 1988 i had a chance to visit east germany with my family. i was 11 at the time. since estonia was still part of the soviet union, visiting east germany was a big step forward. i remember that we visited different sights and at the brandenburg gate, my father told my brother and me ‘breathe in, it is the air of freedom that comes from the other side of the wall’. in 2014, we take freedom for granted but we should not. freedom is precious and it is a pity that we only understand its value when it is gone. i am grateful that i come from a generation who remembers the time when we were not free and who has been able to witness the immense change we have gone through.
in writing. the situation of the people of south sudan is catastrophic as a result of the ongoing conflict. the lives of 3.8 million south sudanese people depend directly on humanitarian aid. but there's not enough help. the european union must contribute fully to ending the conflict in south sudan and, in cooperation with the un and other donors, review the situation of humanitarian needs and opportunities and, if necessary, convene an international donor conference for south sudan. at the same time, it is necessary to prevent humanitarian aid from reaching armed groups and to ensure the safety of aid workers. those responsible for violence and human rights violations must be brought to justice and the international criminal court should be involved.
in writing. the current situation in south sudan is very worrying. it is a pity that the optimism felt at the birth of this new country is replaced by the suffering resulting from armed conflict. if the situation worsens, there is a risk that the conflict will spread to neighbouring countries, which could translate into an increase in violence and piracy off the coast of somalia. the eu has csdp missions in the region, and if the necessary equipment were sent to them, there would be a better chance of peace and stability being restored. ceterum censeo the french will seriously regret its decision to sell the mistral helicopter carriers to russia.
my good colleagues! the threat of a new military confrontation is growing in eastern ukraine for hours and russia is creating in ukraine already the second frozen conflict zone this year after crimea, or if you look at the illegal elections on november 2 in donbas, russia did nothing to prevent these elections, but on the contrary, they were tampered with, and now a clear direction has been taken to create a new frozen conflict zone. in view of the recent reports of the re-assembly of russian troops on the ukrainian border, including their movement into eastern ukraine, and also the fact that ukraine has not yet been able to fully control its state border, the council of the european union and the foreign ministers of the european union should also return as soon as possible to the imposition of new sanctions, i.e. those responsible for the conduct of the so-called elections in the donbass region, both from russia and from the local region, should be added to the sanctions list. unfortunately, political efforts have so far failed to produce results and the minsk process is in all likelihood doomed to failure.
mr president, moldova needs our clear and strong support. the dcfta is a very important step for moldovan development. moldova has worked hard for integration with the european union and is a great example to the rest of the eastern partnership countries. moldova should also get a clear eu membership perspective. moldova has gone through many necessary reforms, but these must continue, especially important reforms in justice, fighting against corruption, finance, banking and insurance. on 28 april visa freedom for holders of biometric passports came into force between the european union and moldova, and it is a clear sign that the eu trusts moldova. but eu public diplomacy must also continue in moldova towards an understanding that the benefits the eu has to offer do not come on their own. the international community should help moldova to solve the transnistria frozen conflict issue, and it is not permissible that russia tries to sanction moldova through trade measures for choosing eu integration.
mr president, first of all it is the people of moldova who deserve this agreement, which will provide them with visa-free travel and a genuine chance for economic progress. it will also open for them a european perspective. second, it is a framework to be fulfilled by political will, national unity, civil liberties and fundamental reforms. as for the eu, by signing the association agreement it commits itself to firmly supporting moldova’s freedom of choice, integrity and stability. this is crucial in the present volatile situation created by russia’s opposition to ukraine and moldova joining the european rule-of-law space. the eu should be prepared to react immediately, credibly and jointly to any provocations or possible acts of aggression because, my friends, it is not only about the eastern neighbourhood: it is about geopolitics, whether we like it or not. it is a confrontation between respect for international law and cynical violation of it.
in writing. i abstained to support the endorsement of the association agreement with moldova for the following reasons: the association may promote positive economic and social transition. however, this poorest european country is heavily dependent on russian and cis markets. moldavians can hardly compete with eu producers. association with the eu may close for moldavians the markets of cis countries and for sure it will close for them the russian market. it will have a desperate effect on social-economic and political stability in moldova. it may also undermine fragile peace in the areas of frozen conflicts, like transnistria and gagauzia region. furthermore, association with the eu is not based on wide social consensus in moldova.
in writing. - i abstained to support the endorsement of the association agreement with moldova for the following reasons: the association may promote positive economic and social transition. however, this poorest european country is heavily dependent on russian and cis markets. moldavians can hardly compete with eu producers. association with the eu may close for moldavians the markets of cis countries and for sure it will close for them the russian market. it will have a desperate effect on social-economic and political stability in moldova. it may also undermine fragile peace in the areas of frozen conflicts, like transnistria and gagauzia region. furthermore, association with the eu is not based on wide social consensus in moldova.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the northern ireland while i strongly believe that the peace process shall be further constructively implemented with the aim of full implementation of the good friday agreement and final conflict resolution. northern ireland is a good example of successful reconciliation of hostile communities when the parties involved made real efforts to improve relations between the communities and paid decent attention to socio-economic aspects of the origin of the conflict situation.
in writing. – i supported the resolution on turkey’s provocations in cyprus economic zone. turkish own-initiative maritime surveys in the region of cyprus’ exclusive economic zone can be seen as provocative and should stop. the turkish actions in question are not in harmony with international law. therefore turkey should withdraw its vessels from the economic zone of cyprus. otherwise continuation of such actions is bound to have a negative impact on turkey’s relations with the eu. cyprus has a legal right to explore natural resources within its economic zone. any gas or oil finds should benefit both communities in cyprus.
in writing. – i voted for the resolution on south sudan. that country has unfortunately reached the worst level of humanitarian crisis with almost 4 million people in need of humanitarian assistance and half a million having sought refuge in neighbouring countries. whereas the eu has provided 38% of international contributions, it needs to reprogramme its development assistance to meet the most urgent needs of the population there. the focus should be on sending aid to the most vulnerable on a needs basis, preventing humanitarian aid being diverted to the hands of armed groups. however, any amount of humanitarian aid cannot address the political divisions which are root of the problem. the eu should urge the sudanese government to make sure that especially oil revenues benefit the people in need.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you so much for raising this extremely important but difficult question. as you know, the european union is a major producer and exporter of dual-use items and a significant actor in counter-proliferation export controls. export controls are key to the competitiveness of our exporters – approximately eur 14 billion of control exports – and this is also crucial to our and international security. our export control regime has been gradually strengthened in the last decade. it has robust provisions and it provides a solid legal and institutional foundation. it has been a model for many third countries, but of course the world is changing and it cannot remain static. it needs to be re-evaluated and upgraded so that we can face the different challenges that mr lange, and others, made reference to. so we need to have a modern control capacity for the coming decade and beyond. i share your concerns over the problems which have been raised and the concerns regarding export of surveillance technology. it can be misused in violation of human rights, and we have taken action to address this very important issue. we have, in record time, prepared and adopted, in october this year, a delegated act to transpose into eu law the multilateral decisions taken under the wassenaar arrangement to control intrusion software and internet monitoring equipment. this is a very important first step. furthermore, the export of surveillance technologies is an element – and a very important element – of our export control policy review. as you know, the commission published a communication in april last year in which we set out some concrete options under a human security approach, to fully take into consideration human rights as a new dimension of export controls. for example, we suggest clearly establishing human rights as a reason for control and possibly denial of export. we want to act quickly, but it is, of course, very important to calibrate our response carefully. we need to identify exactly which items pose a threat to human rights, to our security, and to select effective and targeted controls while being aware that some of these items also have a legitimate use. we should not lose sight of the risk of seeing products exported from third countries replacing our rightful exports. this would harm our competitiveness and offset the positive effects on security, or on respect for human rights, and that is why we have now launched an impact assessment of various options to modify our export control regulations. we also need to take into consideration how we can develop synergies between the different security trade controls. that is only one instrument that we have. we could, for instance, consider restrictions on the export of surveillance technologies by targeting specific countries. this is covered by sanctions under article 215 of the treaty. as you know, the communication has also outlined a vision for a risk-driven model to generate modern control capacities of eu needs for the future. it sets out concrete options to enhance the effectiveness of controls and minimise distortions in competition, and this would improve the level playing field both within the eu and in our relations with third countries. we could, for instance, promote a shift to open licensing: controlling transactions in companies without delaying export and keeping ex-ante controls only for the most sensitive items or destinations. this would reduce delays and costs associated with controls while providing a high level of security. finally, i share parliament’s views that the very specific technical nature of these products requires the mobilisation of highly specialised expertise. we are therefore mobilising experts from all over the eu to conduct regular technical examinations of technological developments to ensure that our controls are up to date. we are engaging with stakeholders, particularly civil society organisations and industry representations, so that they can provide important input to this process. in that regard i would like to emphasise that the private sector is, of course, the first line of defence against proliferation and other associated security threats, so we need to develop a real partnership with the private sector.
mr president, exports of items and technologies that could be used in the wrong way, namely to curb and control civil initiatives and suppress human rights, have become an increasingly serious challenge. the dual-use items often help to spy on human rights activists and are vital to keep independent opposition under control. today there is a clear need to make sure that export control mechanisms are up to date and more efficient. this means effective cooperation with researchers and also the private sector. such cooperation also has to address the growing threat of the intangible transfer of technologies. i would like to commend the commission’s review of last april on the export control policy, which outlines the main shortcomings and proposes strategic lines for the future. i think the meaning of today’s debate is to support and speed up a legislative proposal to update the existing dual-use regulation. it should also provide incentives for all member states to join, for example, the wassenaar arrangement, because behind the widespread misuse of these dual-use items there is a much deeper issue at stake – the credibility of the eu, which is above all based on common values and fairness. the continuing practice of dual-use items ending up in the hands of repressive regimes is distorting and undermining our moral foundations in favour of pragmatic, short-sighted gains to expand one’s markets by any means. there is an urgent need to establish an efficient embargo on exports of dual-use goods and technologies to countries that are targeted by the eu sanctions, for example russia, from where the items in question can be transferred to separatists. finally, my question to the commission is: what steps will be taken to ensure that cybersecurity will be effectively addressed in the process of international exports of dual-use items?
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, thank you for your input into this very interesting and complex debate. we all agree that we have a huge number of products that can be used for perfectly good reasons, but there are also severe risks in certain cases where they can be used for surveillance or for violating human rights. this needs to be addressed. export control is not the only way to address this – we need to do more. i tried to outline how we have done a few things, and we are now in a very cautious, listening mood in order to see how we can update and review the current legislation. we have put forward a communication; there are some ideas. we are also listening very much to what industry says, to what member states say, to what you say and, of course, to what the different ngos – which are very active – say. they perfectly agree with you that a few years ago this was not an issue, but now there is greater awareness, and we should use that. regulations have been amended, policy has advanced, people are more aware, but we also need to make sure that we have controls that are updated. it is complicated, though. we need to make sure that we get this right so that we target what we do not want to see and do not harm european exports for good purposes. that is why we are now preparing the review. as i said, we have listened to the concerns of many different experts, and we hope that we can strike a careful balance in our proposal, which will come – hopefully – next year. we are very much looking forward to cooperation with the european parliament in this endeavour, and we are happy to come back and report to the committee and to parliament on how we are progressing.
in writing. the issue of dual-use goods and the lack of a comprehensive policy to control their export is very serious. this does not only apply to technology and software developed in the eu, but must be considered in a broader context: the export of all products and/or tools that may be exposed to misuse in recipient countries that think nothing of human rights, freedom of expression or the rule of law. for example, french helicopter carriers of the mistral type will definitely be justified by russia as vehicles for humanitarian search and rescue missions, but well, he also claimed that he never visited the crimean peninsula... countries like this will exploit and abuse our openness and our technology, to the point of imprisoning their own people or even worse, to launching an attack on their neighbors. ceterum censeo, france will seriously regret its decision to sell warships to russia.
madam president, small businesses are the key driver of european economic growth, as we know, but we need to make life easier for them to flourish. therefore the impact assessments are a crucial tool to ensure that the laws are fit for purpose, that they work for small companies as well as they do for big companies. however, according to the commission expert group, currently the cost for smes to comply with the regulation can be ten times more than for larger companies, and this should not be the case. the commission needs to put itself in the shoes of a small business which often has neither the time nor the resources to take part in heavy and too-frequent consultations. i would therefore very much like to know what actions are foreseen to better reach out to small businesses to assess the impact of a proposal. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i am sorry but i did not hear the interpretation – it was in some other language.
in writing. - i voted in favour because it encourages innovation in the rail sector in the european union and increases investment in railways. it also gives creditors a stronger sense of international confidence and supports the move towards more environmentally friendly transport.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on jurisdictional agreements. i am of the opinion that disputes on certain specific issues should be capable of being settled in the courts of the state designated by the contract. accession to the convention will significantly increase the legal certainty of the parties and promote international trade.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's resolution to allocate eur 1 426 800 to finland from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help 634 people who lost their jobs in the finnish shipbuilding sector to return to the labour market. unemployment is one of the most painful problems in the european union. structural change and globalisation have led many companies to lay off large numbers of employees or close their doors. with the egf, we can put these people back into the labour market.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's resolution to allocate eur 918 000 to france from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), which will enable 744 people who lost their jobs in the food industry as a result of redundancies to be re-employed. the economic crisis led to a dramatic increase in unemployment in the european union. structural change and globalisation have led many companies to lay off large numbers of employees or close their doors. with the egf, we can put these people back into the labour market.
in writing. - i supported the motion for a resolution on the european union and the post-2015 global development framework. in developing countries, human rights, poverty, inequality, terrorism, health care, discrimination, armed conflict, climate change and so on are still major problems. a global and coherent approach to these problems is needed to ensure that the benefits reach more people in need and that countries develop more equitably. the new framework must create a more transparent system, with greater accountability, including for the european union. the specific objectives and actions must be reflected in the eu's internal and external policies.
in writing. - i supported the europe 2020 strategy on employment and social aspects, because in addition to achieving economic growth, the european union also has other burning issues to tackle. inequality and exclusion must be reduced. it is important that member states take greater account of labour market needs, in particular by ensuring stronger links between education and the world of work. the investment plan presented by the european commission must be implemented effectively. policy efforts must be targeted and results measurable.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i wonder whether we can seriously avoid the term ‘irresponsibility’ while talking about the council, which is unable to adopt a common position before the last day – not to say the last hour – of the three-week long conciliation period? the council, which is unable to adopt a common position on dab 3 after almost five months? can we seriously avoid the term ‘irresponsibility’ while talking about the council, which is consistently cutting payments which are a legal obligation and a logical consequence of the commitments made jointly by us? the council, which wants to impose upon this very parliament a fast-track procedure on own resources, although it has been unable for years to fix the most important issue – the reform of own resources? can we really avoid the term ‘irresponsibility’ under those circumstances? no, we cannot. let me ask the italian presidency to convey this message to the member states: just pull yourselves together! look at the efforts of the commission and this very parliament, which i would go so far as to describe as impressive, and try to forget your members’ selfish interest. just focus on the fate of europe. more responsibility.
the most important thing is to change societal attitudes, both in europe and worldwide, as long as it is women who are the first to tackle and combat violence against women. this shows that there is something very wrong with our social attitudes. in my previous career, i also interacted with high-level heads of state from many places around the world, and some of them spoke with absolutely incredible clarity about how systemic, like sexual violence to ensure security, to ensure political control, is completely commonplace in their countries, and that it's a tradition. no one should accept such justifications that speak of tradition or culture in the modern world this is not the 21st century. it is clear that the european union must do everything we can today, including in the legal field, to ensure that societies have zero tolerance for violence against women. it is about legislation, it is about the much-talked-about ratification of the istanbul convention, but also about the new legislation for europe itself. i think that what we are discussing here today is, in principle, the most important issue of the day in this parliament.
in writing. – future of europe can only be built on competitiveness and solidarity based on trust, credible partnerships between public and private sector and cutting red tape. future investments need to flow into innovation and completion of single market - energy, digital, services. the key of junker's initiative lies in not accepting stagnation, but taking a risk by proposing a bold, modern and competent initiative. this should attract new investments worth up to 315 billion, not by taking loans or giving in regarding fiscal discipline as wished by the socialists, but instead by involving eib to encourage active use of the money available in banks, ensuring guarantees by eib and eu budget. the encouraging positive reaction by the bigger political groups, is what even the socialist leader pittella described as entering a new era. one of core issues is cutting red tape on all levels in the eu. considerable amounts of eu funding is not spent due to rigid and overcomplicated rules preventing sme-s, local authorities, farmers and others to benefit and thrive for growth. and finally we need to attract businesses to invest into public projects. this is possible only if public sector appears fiscally sustainable and stable. fiscal discipline is core for building trust.
in writing. - i supported the bill amending the regulation on the collection of statistical information by the european central bank. i am of the opinion that the collection of information for the sole purpose of collecting information is not reasonable and increases the financial and labour burden. in the interests of efficiency, bureaucracy should be reduced as much as possible. i therefore consider it important that the principle of proportionality should be respected in future when defining and establishing data reporting requirements.
in writing. - i supported the draft regulation amending the european central bank's powers to impose sanctions. the financial crisis has made it clear that the eu financial sector needs to be more closely supervised. the new updated rules, more integrated solutions and increased cooperation will ensure the sustainable functioning of the financial markets of the 28 member states.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the un climate change conference in peru. climate change is an irreversible threat to society, and i believe that it must be tackled with the utmost seriousness in international cooperation. the international response has so far been insufficient and measures should be implemented proactively and immediately. to support sustainable development, we must help the wealthier developing countries one by one and develop their economies in a more environmentally friendly way.
president, my colleagues! the convention on the rights of the child is currently the convention with the largest number of countries in the world. yet, it is consistently violated. this means that recognised law is not yet law in practice and that the implementation of the principles of the convention must be taken as seriously as it was ten or twenty years ago. 150 million children in the world today cannot read or write, one in ten children suffers from sexual abuse, a great many children still die of diseases that the world has long managed to cure and prevent. last year, 6.5 million children died worldwide. and one of the problems is that we measure success primarily by statistical averages, but that creates a shifting sense of success. millions of children are still violated every day, most of all the poorest 20 percent. one million children are suffering in conflicts in syria, iraq, ukraine and elsewhere. it is important that you work together to solve this problem in such a way... (the speaker was interrupted.)
in writting. – we are currently celebrating the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child. in the context of economic, social and cultural rights, states parties to the convention should undertake necessary measures to the maximum extent of their available resources and, where needed, within the framework of international cooperation. poverty and social exclusion is a challenge to all member states. the un convention recommends international cooperation to better protect the economic, social and cultural rights of children. european treaties also provide a framework for such cooperation. we cannot ignore gloomy statistics that in new member states every third child lives at risk of poverty and social exclusion: for example, 9.5 % of estonian children lived in absolute poverty in 2012. i call on my colleagues in parliament to intensify political pressure on the commission and on their member states to start real and substantial cooperation to fight child poverty in the european union. the first and the most important result of this cooperation might be the introduction, in the interests of children, of minimum social standards to be met by all member states, if necessary with the assistance of the eu and other member states.
mr president, i am disappointed that the discussion over this resolution has turned into an anti-google debate. the eu is lagging behind the us and its main competitors because of the fragmented digital market and very slow broadband roll-out, but mainly because many decision-makers still see digital solutions as a threat rather than as an opportunity. in order for innovation to flourish, we need to allow some creative destruction. yes, the use of digital services might lead to some sectors being phased out, but it is so that new sectors can emerge. i come from estonia, a country which made a choice to embrace digital innovation and became successful at it. we have been the test subjects for many different digital services, and we like them because they make life easier. demand creates new opportunities for companies to create services which eventually lead to jobs and growth. but it is important not to overregulate the market. a week ago the inventor of the world wide web visited parliament. he said that they built the web as an open platform so that people could use, invent and be creative. this invention would not have happened with over-regulation, so this is not what we need today. what we need is the promotion of digital entrepreneurship. we hope that vice-president ansip will lead the way.
mr president, in this digital world the borders between territories, between parties, between nations are disappearing. there are different rules and we have to be open to all kinds of new ideas and to all kinds of cooperation. we have to think more about the future than about the fears we have from the past. in this work, we shall also have very good cooperation between parliament and the commission, because we are representing european interests. however, we see that from the council we have a lot of problems which are caused by individual interests. i especially want to stress the issue of personal data rights, because the data protection issue is very crucial. in order to go on with any kind of digital services, we have to have very strong common, simple and understandable data protection regulations. i very much hope that, in cooperation with the commission and parliament, we can make it clear to the council that the package of data protection is crucial for the development of the digital single market. it is not a market, i agree. it is really a digital society in europe, and it should live according to the basic principles of the protection of interest and basic rights. i want to remind you that commissioner ansip, when he was a candidate, said that he sees access to digital services and to the digital world as a human right. i agree very much. we have to achieve that. our partners in the council of europe are now proposing the new set of rules of digital rights. on 10 december 2014, they will show that in brussels. i hope that we have good cooperation with the council of europe on digital rights.
author. - mr president, dr mukwege concluded yesterday that women and their bodies have become battlegrounds and instruments of war, sadly not only in africa. in iraq, islamic terrorists have caused in half a year a catastrophic humanitarian crisis and the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people. un estimates show that, in october, between 5 000 to 7 000 women were held in makeshift centres and sold by jihadists as sex slaves. we call on the european commission to take specific action to contribute to guaranteeing women in iraq the respect of their fundamental rights, safety and freedom from slavery. a special mechanism to assist traumatised women, notably yazidi women, is needed to offer them medical and psychological assistance. lastly, that is why the us and the international community’s initiative to fight the islamic state is to be welcomed.
in writing. - i did not support the motion of censure against the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, because it would weaken europe and is not justified. the newly appointed president of the european commission was the subject of a motion of censure by members of the european parliament from among the political forces opposed to the further development and strengthening of the european union. the investigation into ms. luxleaks is not yet complete, but it is already being considered for a conviction. in the current international situation, the european union needs to be united and strengthened, while the attempt to discredit the new european commission is working against it and is not in the eu's strong interests.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. i am extremely concerned about the significant delay in implementation of the cohesion policy for 2014-2020. cohesion policy represents the main eu-wide investment policy in the real economy and is a catalyst for growth and jobs in europe. it forms a major part of the euʼs strategy to redress regional imbalances and inequalities, to assist diversification and the adaptation to industrial change, and to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion. it is imperative to start the implementation of the new programmes as soon as possible in order to maximise the results of the investments, boost job creation and raise productivity growth. we must not lose time and must put forward solutions for limiting the damage of delays as much as possible. the eu bureaucracy should focus more on the real needs of the european people, regions and industrial sector and start to act in an efficient and proper manner. the overall goal should be building an innovative and competitive europe which is functioning to fulfil the needs of european people.
in writing. - i supported the proposal because cohesion policy is an investment policy for the whole of the european union, with its 350 billion euros, and a powerful driver of economic growth. i am concerned that the implementation of cohesion policy is significantly delayed. the commission and the member states must show a sense of responsibility and do their utmost to ensure that the operational programmes are adopted as soon as possible. the commission must present a concrete plan of action to be taken to recover the situation.
in writing. - i supported the decision because children's rights must be at the heart of european union policy. every child is unique and precious and his or her rights must be protected without prejudice, regardless of the race, nationality, social class or nationality of the parents. the rights of children must be protected and recognised through the internal and external policies of the european union, supporting the implementation of member states' strategies.
in writing. – i supported the resolution which includes a lot of useful recommendations regarding better protection of the rights of the child, especially those on the issues of poverty and social exclusion. according to eurostat data, in 2013 almost every fourth european lived at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in many member states relative rates were higher among the population under the age of 18, i.e. among children. in general, 27.6% of european children lived at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in the twelve new member states this figure was as high as 34.8%. according to statistics estonia, in 2012 9.5% of estonian children had an income lower that the absolute poverty threshold, i.e. the estimated subsistence minimum. the same year 18.1% of all estonian children lived in relative poverty, i.e. their income was lower than 60% of the median equalised yearly disposable income of household members. these statistical data are very worrying and justify substantial cooperation of the european commission and member states to fight children’s poverty in the european union, including elaboration of minimum social standards to be met by all eu countries, in close cooperation with union institutions and other member states.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. an estimated eur 260 billion in gains could come out of a fully integrated and completed digital single market. this money could be re-invested amongst others into the very ambitious plan president juncker has just presented for the future of europe, for growth, competitiveness and innovation. investments and good partnerships are needed between the public and private sectors to set up highest-capacity broadband and telecommunications and to ensure adequate flows into innovation and research. the eu also needs to invest in enabling unhindered access for its citizens to these networks, and considerably boost efforts to overcome the digital divide. to turn europe into e-europe, the citizens also have to turn into e-citizens. e-government, e-services, e-commerce would simplify life and reduce administrative burdens for all levels, from individual to european. for that a comprehensive european e-certification, e-identification, digital signature system is needed. lastly, the eu has to find a solution to geo-cashing and ensuring the eu as a whole is targeted as one digital single market without any prejudice towards country of origin. this is not only a question of free market and competition, but also of treating all member states and their citizens on the same merits.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament resolution on supporting consumer rights in the digital single market. the digital single market is one of the most innovative sectors of the economy and therefore has an important role to play in enhancing competitiveness and creating jobs. member states must continue to contribute and work to remove barriers and create a single market where everyone has an equal opportunity to make the most of the opportunities it offers.
in writing. - i supported the bill on child malnutrition in the developing world. the international declaration of human rights treats the right to food as part of a standard of living. worldwide, at least 225 million children under five suffer from malnutrition. the european union must increase its contribution to development aid programmes and make them more targeted.
i would like to draw parliament's attention to another aspect of this directive, which is not at all about canada, but about our own european fuel producers, who are also looking to you for a variety of different fuel sources to produce an environmentally friendly product. one of these is the estonian oil shale industry, which is making a major effort to produce environmentally friendly oil from oil shale, including low sulphur fuels. the directive encourages such alternative paths of search and at the same time this production in estonia provides jobs for thousands of workers on the eastern border of estonia, i.e. on the russian border, and these workers are mainly members of the russian minority. the proposal to reject the commission's directive will mean that estonia is facing a double increase in unemployment in this very sensitive region, certainly social tensions and since it is a very sensitive region on the border with russia - and recalling russia's increasing aggressiveness around the baltic sea - i very much hope that parliament will take into account that this is also an environmental problem, as social tensions rise and the military threat increases.
madam president, i believe it is important to keep in mind that what we want to achieve with this is a reduction of co2 emissions. estonia has the specificity of having an oil and shale industry. it is a polluting industry. this is why investments have been made to restructure the sector and reduce its ecological footprint. rejecting the proposal of the commission would endanger the investments made and will likely lead to more pollution rather than less. the bigger picture of energy security in europe and independence from russia also needs to be looked at. rejecting the proposal could have the impact of a shift of production and thus employment from north-east estonia to russia, and the risk of political instability would then be high. i am strongly in favour of a greener transport sector but i do not think that rejecting the commission’s proposal this week will achieve this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing emily o'reilly as european ombudsman. this is a very responsible position, for example to protect the citizens of the european union should they get caught between the cogs of one of the institutions. emily o'reilly has proven over the past year that she can do this job.
in writing. ‒ i supported the re-election of emily o’reilly as european ombudsman for the 2014–2019 parliamentary term. since october 2013, when she took office, ms o’reilly has been an efficient guardian of the rights of europeans who complained about maladministration by european institutions. i was also satisfied with the results of the hearing on 2 december 2014, where ms o’reilly answered questions from members of the peti committee.
in writing. ‒ i supported the bill because it will allow a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework for businesses and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft on the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, as i consider it important to protect endangered species and to control international trade in specimens of these species. the eu's accession to the convention will undoubtedly add capacity to the whole operation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the conclusion of the cooperation agreement because morocco is a well-developed country in this field and sharing knowledge with companies from european countries will increase synergies and significantly develop the sector, especially as regards the global satellite navigation system for civil use.
in writing. ‒ i supported the extension of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and ukraine, as i believe that enhanced cooperation and the exchange of expertise will bring mutual benefits and open up market access opportunities. this is particularly so in view of the current situation in ukraine and the importance of cooperation with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for croatia to join the european economic area, because the treaty provides for the four fundamental freedoms on which the whole idea of the european union is based: the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital. participation in the european economic area is a natural step following accession to the european union and croatia must implement the freedoms it brings with it as quickly and effectively as possible.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal on the assumption that it is consistent with economic and social strategies and does not exceed the limits of the tax allowances provided for or its impact on the budget of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to allocate eur 1 890 000 from the egf to italy, as it will allow us to help 502 names who lost their jobs in whirlpool, italy, to return to the labour market. unemployment is one of the most painful problems in the european union. with the egf, we can mobilise these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution to allocate eur 1 259 610 from the egf to poland, which will allow 777 people who would have been unemployed as a result of redundancies to be reintegrated into the labour market. with the egf, we can mobilise these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to allocate eur 6 444 000 from the egf to greece, as it will allow us to help 551 names who lost their jobs in the greek retail sector to return to the labour market. with the egf, we can mobilise these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution to allocate eur 25 937 813 from the egf to france, which will allow the reintegration into the labour market of 3886 people who were made redundant in the aviation sector. with the egf, we can mobilise these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to appoint the chair, the vice-chair and the members of the single resolution board. the candidate for the chair of the board, elke könig, has been thoroughly questioned and approved by the economic and financial affairs committee of the european parliament. i think these are the right candidates.
, in writting.– three crucial points: boosting investment, conducting structural reforms, exercising fiscal responsibility. the proposed investment package is an innovative initiative in a situation where member states continue to refuse any additional money for the eu budget. the commission has made the best of situation, to generate the climate of trust for the private investors. just because of that, we expect from the same member governments a concerted and active support, not hesitations and excuses. we also need commitment to better regulation. regulatory fitness programme should become instrumental to cut red tape and remove regulatory burdens. to generate digital single market, i urge to introduce, as soon as possible, eu´s digital signature and digital authentication, and, by removing national obstacles, to create a functioning european space for digital interconnections. and - once again - to simplify and harmonize consumer rules for online and digital purchases. in this regard, i especially welcome the planned copyright review that is long overdue and has to be adapted to the principle of single and digital single market and borderless europe. we eagerly look forward to commission's new proposals, promised by next year.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, as always in my group we acknowledge the important work done by the rapporteurs and the chair of the committee on budgets during this yearʼs budget negotiations. we also acknowledge that the agreement is certainly not one of the worst, definitely not in comparison to some other budget deals concluded during the last years. however, i believe that the deal does not allow the very difficult payment situation to be stabilised. as mr deprez has already reminded this parliament, we had three goals, three strategic objectives. first, to stabilise the payment situation, where we failed. unpaid bills accumulated. second, we need a differentiated approach on special instruments, and we failed because there is no decision. thirdly, we needed a plan to reduce unpaid bills, and we failed because the written declaration does not seem to be so binding. ms gardiazábal rubial said she is unhappy with the figures but that, nevertheless, we should vote for the budget. i do not think so! my question is: why should we support that kind of deal at the vote and why should we be so very afraid of provisional twelfths? au contraire, we should embrace the provisional twelfths because only that method will force the council, the member state governments in the council, to understand finally the depth of the problem and perhaps even to move a little bit to solve it. i have so many points – i will not make them all because you know them, budget people know them – but just allow me, madam president, to become a little bit emotional at the end of my third minute. if we reject the budget tomorrow – and take your time, consider it again, consider it – if we reject it we will get one or two months of provisional twelfths but we will have a new situation concerning how this european union budget is finally made, and the real role of this parliament according to the lisbon treaty must become more evident. if we vote for it, then all we can do is sing lullabies to our children using leonard cohenʼs gloomy words: ʽeverybody knows the deal is rotten, everybody knows the good guys lostʼ.
in writing. the syrian civil war remains one of the greatest humanitarian disasters of our time, with at least 1.7 million people displaced. the horrors of civil war have now been compounded by the crimes of isil in both syria and iraq, which have added even more refugees. the survival of these people depends directly on international humanitarian aid. every effort must therefore be made to ensure that these people receive adequate humanitarian assistance. the u.n. food program being shut down for the winter because of a lack of money is unbelievable. the un, the eu, the arab league and other international organisations must do much more to ensure the survival of these people. half the refugees are children. it is very important to provide them with education in the refugee camps. the european union must therefore step up its aid to refugees from syria and other conflicts in the light of the new budget.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the debate on internal security is timely. outside the eu, russia is invading europe. inside, there is financial instability, mass unemployment, the rise of the far left and the far right. sarkozy, the man responsible for the infamous mistral-type warship deal, is trying to return to power. that is why we must withdraw these warships from the market quickly. the eu should buy them or at least france should sell them to someone other than putin, as soon as possible. ceterum censeo, france will seriously regret its decision to sell warships to russia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal to introduce unilateral trade preferences for the republic of moldova, as it supports moldova's reform processes, promotes trade relations and brings moldova closer to the european union.
in writing. i supported the proposal on the tariff treatment of goods originating in ecuador. if ecuador can meet all the conditions, the trade disruptions currently caused by high customs duties will also disappear. it is not correct that export products from ecuador are placed at a competitive disadvantage on the eu market compared to similar products from colombia and peru.
in writing. i supported today the proposal to use the reserve for unforeseen expenditure. however, to avoid such situations in the future, the eu budget needs to be made more flexible. the introduction of a contingency reserve is not sustainable and does not reduce payment errors and renders financial management in general unreliable.
in writing. i supported the proposal to support the regular receipt of payments and to ensure that the budget meets the necessary conditions by the end of 2014.
in writing. i supported the proposal because it will significantly increase the efficiency of the european union's spending.
in writing. i supported the proposal to help italy with floods, greece with earthquakes, slovenia with snowstorms and croatia with snowstorms and floods. the european union solidarity fund was set up to help and show solidarity with the people living in areas affected by disasters.
in writing. i supported the proposal because i believe that financial assistance should be provided through the european union solidarity fund to countries affected by a natural disaster in order to help mitigate the effects of the disaster.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal because it allows for a saving of €6.2 million to help finance humanitarian aid at the end of the year in the event of a crisis.
in writing. i supported the proposal to provide a total of eur 79 726 440 to serbia, croatia and bulgaria to help them to deal with the damage caused by the floods. the european union solidarity fund was set up to help and show solidarity with the people living in areas affected by disasters.
in writing. i supported the proposal because i believe that financial assistance should be provided through the european union solidarity fund to countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal because it gives member states more flexibility in how to make available the amounts required by the vat and gni-based own resources adjustment, where the total is very high.
in writing. i supported the proposal to include €50 million in the 2015 budget, as this would allow for faster and more effective assistance to people living in disaster areas. it is essential that all the conditions are in place for aid to arrive as quickly as possible in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. i supported the bills because they allow for faster funding for important and urgent priorities of the european union. in this case, this is essential for the smooth development of cyprus.
in writing. i supported the adoption of the 2015 budget of the european union, as in the current volatile environment the eu needs a stable budget that focuses on strengthening the single foreign policy.
in writing. i voted against the ep resolution calling for the rejection of the draft council directive (establishing calculation methods and reporting requirements in accordance with directive 98/70/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels). having weighed the arguments for and against this implementing act over a long period of time, i can conclude that the rejection would have been a unilaterally biased decision, which would have damaged estonia's national economic interests and exacerbated social problems. such a negative decision would certainly not be in the interests of the spirit of constructive compromise on which the european union bases its action in an attempt to take account of the interests of the various parties. rejection of the directive would have meant that the commission would have had to start work on a new draft fuel quality directive, which would have been very time-consuming. such a delay and hesitation would have sent a negative signal to future investors in a situation where the new european commission is doing everything it can to restore confidence in the private sector and create a stable environment for economic activity. in my view, this directive meets both the eu's greenhouse gas reduction targets for the transport sector (-6%) and the need to strengthen energy security by providing a level playing field for local energy resources and increasing the security of energy supplies to the eu energy market. in the case of estonia, it is particularly important to switch from the combustion of fuel oil to the production of fuel oil with a much lower level of pollution. this can be done in a situation where the investor is assured that the rules will not be changed lightly. i am glad that the overwhelming majority of my group (the european people's party) voted against the rejection of the directive.
in writing. i voted against the draft because i think the european commission's draft directive is reasonable. the directive is balanced and also takes account of estonia's special situation with regard to oil shale. the resolution would have added significantly to the ambiguity.
in writing. — i did not support the resolution objecting to the adoption of the implementing act of the fuel quality directive. in the estonian context the implementing act would promote the usage of shale oil for the production of liquid fuels instead of electricity production. as a result, there will be positive impact on waste management and emission of pollutants. the development of the shale oil production industry has considerable influence on the gross domestic product of estonia, its foreign trade balance and labour market, especially in the northern-eastern ida-viru county, inhabited by russian-speaking minorities.
in writing. i voted against the bill because i consider it important to protect the baltic cod stock in a sustainable way.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution. the ep resolution on the review of the eu’s internal security strategy comes at the right time, just after the commission has announced that it plans to work on the review in 2015. i call on the commission to make cyber-security and cyber resilience the underlying principles of the new iss. only by fully mainstreaming cyber-security into all aspects of internal and external security can we build proper resilience and prevent crisis. cyber-security will also be at the core of the fight against terrorism and detecting european jihadists and their possible actions. we clearly need very close cross-sectorial and cross-border cooperation in order to be effective in the early detection and rapid notification of threats and incidents. we have to break the traditional cluster-thinking when it comes to security, especially in the eu with open borders and open societies. proper balance between privacy and security, ensuring that actions follow appropriate procedures, will enable states to prevent incidents, terrorism and crime and provide citizens with the security they are entitled to.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the renewal of the internal security strategy. the internal security strategy must be based on cross-border cooperation and take account of the latest policies and emerging security threats. the new strategy must be forward-looking and easily adaptable to changing circumstances.
in writing. — i decided to abstain in the vote on the resolution concerning palestinian statehood. i welcome the fact that the ep has clearly rejected unconditional recognition of palestinian statehood and expresses cautious support for the two-state solution. whereas i agree that violence in the region needs to stop, i would like to make reminder that israel lives under constant threat from almost all its neighbours, which are using the palestine argument to question the very existence and legitimacy of israel. i do not find it possible to recognise palestine until we see also unconditional recognition of israel by its neighbouring muslim countries. whereas i fully respect the rulings by the european court of justice, i also regret the decision to remove hamas from the eu terrorist list, apparently on procedural grounds. i would like these procedural grounds to be made public as soon as possible, so that such rulings would not be possible in the future. i call on the eu to appeal against this ruling. the very activities of hamas, which continues to be a foreign-financed militant group that voices plans to destroy israel and has sent thousands of rockets to hit israeli civilians, is a major obstacle to recognition of the palestinian state in its present condition.
in writing. i remained neutral because the main thing is to reach a two-state solution as a result of the peace process between israel and palestine. both parties must make efforts to do so. in the current situation, putting pressure on one side is not going to produce the desired result.
in writing. i supported the projects to improve the situation of the steel industry in crisis in europe. the steel industry plays an important role in the european economy. i think the european union needs to become more competitive with the best in the business.
in writing. i supported the proposal because the european union and the member states must do everything possible to prevent people from dying at sea as refugees. in the nine months of this year alone, more than 3,000 people have lost their lives in the mediterranean. a long-term action plan should be developed and a review of the security policy in the region should also be undertaken. migration and asylum issues also need to be addressed seriously.
the question of the blue card. i share mr brok's views on this issue and i have a question for him, what is mr brok's assessment now of the risks in the fight against terrorism, based on this report? does he see any possible implications for the further fight against terrorism arising from this situation? unfortunately, just yesterday we witnessed a terrible event in pakistan. what's his assessment?
in writing. – the us senate’s report on post-9/11 cia torture revealed shocking truths about the ‘enhanced interrogation techniques’ (in fact torture) used against foreign prisoners in overseas prisons, including, inter alia, rectal rehydration, sleep deprivation, standing for long periods and threats to family members of prisoners. several countries hosted us detention centres, including three eu member states – poland, romania and lithuania. these activities cannot be justified at all. according to the un convention against torture (1984), no exceptional circumstances may be invoked as a justification for torture (article 2). it is very worrying that the ‘techniques’ were previously authorised by us authorities. i welcome the publication of the senate’s report. regrettably, former high-ranking officials in the us still try to justify these ‘techniques’ that have proved to be largely ineffective. the fight against terrorism, the democratic image of both the us and eu, the positive character of us-eu cooperation are heavily compromised. it is appropriate to insist on punishment of public officials in the us and eu responsible for systemic and outrageous breaches of fundamental rights. europe cannot serve as a beacon of democracy if no appropriate measures are taken in poland, romania and lithuania – all three countries were actively involved in moulding european neighbourhood policy.
mr president, i strongly support georgiaʼs path towards the european union, and the ratification of the association agreement is a big step forward. implementation, of course, will certainly be a big task for georgia. i hope that at the riga summit in 2015 we can talk more clearly about further european perspectives for georgia and other most advanced eastern partnership countries. successful implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan is also important and hopefully this could be one of the deliverables of the riga summit. it is important to support the territorial integrity and sovereignty of georgia as well as its full right to make independent decisions regarding foreign and security policy. the so-called treaty on alliance and integration between russia and the de facto authorities of abkhazia is a cause for great concern. there is a threat that such activities could lead to the annexation by russia of part of the territory of georgia.
mr president, i am deeply concerned by the constant worsening of the political situation in venezuela. this country has a heightened responsibility to comply with the rule of law, having just become a member of the un security council. the economic and social crisis there is a direct outcome of growing political and ideological intolerance. massive protests have been countered by the disproportionate use of force, the arrest of the opposition leader leopoldo lópez and the scandalous suspension of opposition congressmen. but above all, it is unpardonable that almost 40 demonstrators have been killed by pro-government armed groups. this is not a rule of law state. we express our solidarity with the people who are trying to bring venezuela back to democracy and risking their lives. we ask the eu and ms mogherini to call for the immediate release of protestors and political prisoners.
author. - mr president, the situation in sudan still needs our urgent attention. there are constant reports of the killing and torture of people, harassment of political activists and human rights defenders, as well as cases of sudanese government soldiers using sexual violence, including gang rape of teenage girls, as a weapon of war against the rebels. the sudanese authorities must stop their harassment and must comply with the relevant international norms and standards, in particular the un declaration on human rights defenders of 1998, and all regional and international human rights instruments also ratified by sudan. the recent case of the arrest of dr amin mekki medani is another example of what is wrong in sudan. he must be released immediately. the icc prosecutor already presented, years ago, evidence showing that sudanese president al-bashir committed crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, but al-bashir is still president, he is still free and crimes continue. the un and icc must finally implement what has been decided, to stop the violations of human rights in sudan and harassment against human rights defenders.
in writing. not supported. first, we must significantly reduce illegal fishing.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and georgia. georgia has strong links with the eu and nato and a significant consensus on the implementation of the agreement. although georgia still has a long way to go, it has been an outstanding reformer and a deeper partner of the european union. it is important to continue to clearly support georgia's territorial integrity.
in writing. i supported the ratification of the eu-georgia association agreement as it will help make the georgian economy more modern and predictable, benefiting both parties and all eu member states.
