member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms pilar ayuso, for her constructive and positive approach to the ehealth action plan for 2012-2020. the report adopted underlines and strengthens the common vision on e-health at the european union level. the commission welcomes the views of parliament and is considering the various recommendations of this report. we support the deployment of e-health solutions and thereby a better quality of life for european citizens through high-quality healthcare, and we particularly welcome the emphasis on the importance of interoperability of e-health systems and the need for the commission to take a leading role in establishing international standards and the european union ehealth interoperability framework. such a framework is necessary for deploying interoperable cross-border e-health services. it will also help in the uptake of e-health products and services throughout the european union. the recommendations aiming to ensure data security in the health field deserve particular attention, considering the sensitivity of this issue and the need to increase users’ trust. the e-health network established under the directive on patients’ rights in cross-border health care is progressing well. the idea of including regions and local authorities responsible for e-health deployment expressed in the report is interesting. however, the directive superficially stipulates that participants in the e-health network should be national authorities designated by the member states. promoting health and digital literacy is essential if citizens are to accept e-health solutions, and it is true that greater efforts will be required in the future as part of the action plan. we have to recognise that member states need to have more competences and also more means to address this task. the commission understands the call for the continued funding of this fast-growing sector, not only with research and innovation funding under horizon 2020 but also through the connecting europe facility to support the large-scale deployment of cross-border services. we share the ambition for national, regional and local authorities to make effective use of the european union funding, but not to the detriment of funding for traditional health services. the commission will be happy to report every two years, as foreseen, on the progress of the implementation of its own actions under the action plan. the call on member states to develop an adequate legal framework regarding reimbursement criteria in the context of e-health is strongly supported by the commission, together with data security. this is critical in ensuring the wider uptake of e-health in the member states by professionals and patients.
mr president, although the impetus for this resolution was the horse meat craze, the committee and the rapporteur have done the right thing in highlighting the structural problems and shortcomings in the control of food chains throughout the eu. today, food safety is better than ever before for example, people are getting sick less and less often from food poisoning but yet consumers' confidence in labels in the food chain is very low. the foodstuffs are sold with the specific idea of purity, origin and production methods, and therefore are falsified for economic gain. although the eu regulation provides for labelling and the prevention of misleading consumers, the application of this provision varies considerably from one country to another, as does the frequency of inspections. the report rightly calls for a uniform definition of food fraud.
mr president, the rapporteur has led the committee on employment and social affairs in highlighting the importance of occupational safety and health monitoring, particularly now in the context of the economic crisis. public budgets are being saved, and this is very likely to reduce the budget for occupational safety and health inspections and also to reduce the number of inspections. on the other hand, it is precisely the crisis that is attracting more people to do dark work and feeding the grey economy. the report makes recommendations for action to combat undeclared work and improve the working conditions of the occupational safety and health authorities, and also highlights best practices from different countries. the report also highlights particularly vulnerable groups such as the selfemployed, the hired workers and the domestic workers. it is true that we had a few different views in the various political groups on how best to protect these groups. it must be borne in mind that the supervision of health and safety is always a matter for the public authorities and cannot be left to the trade union movement, for example. it is important to remember that even an honest entrepreneur benefits from proper occupational safety and health monitoring.
mr president, we noted in the committee on employment and social affairs that the economic participation of workers and these systems vary very much from one country to another, as they are very dependent on national provisions and conditions, including taxation. different models are also used for different purposes: partly to participate in the decision-making process of the company, and partly, for example, to participate in different investment programmes, for example, through investment options, which allow to benefit from the success of the company. the implementation of legislative measures at eu level in this area is not, in my view, an achievable goal, but the exchange of best practices and the issuing of recommendations is sufficient. i think it is also important to bear in mind that financial participation is always voluntary - both on the part of the employee and on the part of the company - to create such schemes. different recommendations and best practices can be exchanged, as engaging and encouraging participation from the workplace by all employees, not just top management, is certainly a factor that increases both the quality of the work and the success of the company.
mr president, the number of selfemployed people in the eu is growing steadily, as the variety of atypical employment relationships increases and the crisis also forces many to seek self-employment. on the other hand, many freelance jobs may also be desirable. in the various member states we have very different ways of looking after the selfemployed and their social security, especially unemployment and pension protection. some countries have voluntary schemes, and some offer benefits that are similar to those offered to workers in general. then there are states where there is no safety net for independent entrepreneurs. the fact that this is a very disunited group makes the application of social protection policy difficult. furthermore, as has been pointed out here, there is so-called forced or fraudulent business, which is a greater problem in some countries. the problem of social security coordination sometimes also arises in that a selfemployed person may be able to obtain unemployment protection from another member state across the border, and the reverse of this is that the member state itself may not necessarily start developing a social protection programme because it knows that unemployment protection may also be available to the selfemployed person across the border.
mr president, lithuania has done a very good job of presiding over the council, and i congratulate it on that. the european union is not a party to the maastricht treaty, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. it was the focus of the lithuanian presidency. but the fact that this shipwreck happened is not just lithuania's fault, but the eu itself must dare to look at its actions with openness. the eu's attraction and leverage have waned. the eu must also reflect on what it means by the words cooperation, appreciation of partners and respect for the values of others. it is good that negotiations with ukraine are continuing. ukraine must be allowed to decide for itself what kind of cooperation it will have with the eu, without any pressure. i think it is quite natural that the eastern partner states and all the eu member states cooperate in different directions. we cannot have a situation where we cooperate only with the eu, but the eu itself cooperates with different countries. the eu must take as its starting point the possibility for its own partner countries to pursue independent policies in a number of areas. it is in europe's interest, it is in the world's interest, and it also guarantees peace.
mr president, there is an interesting situation on the european food market: the food on sale is statistically safer than ever, but consumer confidence is faltering. the concern is not so much listeria or salmonella as the question is whether we can trust the labels. this is a question of the utmost importance to the consumer. we have therefore just adopted a report on the commission's own initiative on food safety and fraud prevention in the food chain. we recommend to the commission that we invest in risk-based control. so we would focus on where the threat of security risk or fraud is greatest. this is a sensible view of the eu's role in agriculture, in product and chain checks and in other areas. those who are doing their jobs well need to be able to breathe and to respond to emergencies with firmness. by focusing on the big problems that cross borders, we can help the whole industry and treat the different parts of the chain more equitably. by the way, this should apply to everything in the eu!
mr president, this food crisis and fraud in the food chain and how to control it are very important issues. we have a saying in finland that you are what you eat. it is not the way things are going to be, but it is very important that we be aware of what we eat, and in this way we can also do our part to influence our own health. unfortunately, there was a bit of confusion on the voting list of our group, and i would like to confirm for my part that i am absolutely in favour of mandatory origin labelling of meat in all contexts. the consumer must know where the meat comes from and, therefore, these various processed products must be clearly labelled. it is important that we ensure that consumers can know that the food they are buying is safe, healthy and therefore good for people.
in writing. - i have just voted in favour of this important report. it is good that the eu, which has been ravaged by food scandals, is looking for ways to restore consumer confidence in the food market. i welcome the fact that the eu is working to tighten up legislation, particularly in the area of fraud, as at present fraud in the food chain rarely leads to legal action and penalties. this is a shame, because fraud in the food chain often affects the most vulnerable consumers. these consumers often lack the knowledge and skills to distinguish between healthy and safe food and unsafe food. moreover, they are often in a weaker economic situation, which makes them willing to buy cheaper food. i therefore warmly support the report by mr de lange and its idea that fraud in the food chain must be tackled more vigorously than before.
mr president, there is a great deal of interest in public procurement. public expenditure on goods, services and buildings, procurement, accounts for almost 20% of the eu's gni. this is a lot of money, about 2.5 billion euros. it is therefore understandable that citizens are interested in how these purchases are made, how the money is spent. so now we are going to reform this procurement procedure. the aim is to include social, environmental and labour law perspectives. this is a good thing, but on the other hand we have to admit that it also makes it difficult to do public procurement and to put things on the market, because these are matters of value. it's easy to set a price, but it's harder to put a value on environmental issues. the purpose of this legislation was to reform and simplify this public procurement. i think the result is the opposite: bureaucracy increases, consultants win. in future, more training is needed to ensure that these public procurements are carried out correctly in each eu country, and that the right things are given priority.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the old procurement directive was a bureaucratic disaster. in that sense we are pleased that we now have a new proposal to deal with, but there are still serious problems. one is that the new procurement procedure will involve at least as much bureaucracy as the old one, the other problem - and this is particularly worrying to me - is that the negotiation process leads to extremely short contracts. for activities such as the connecting vessels in the finnish archipelago, this poses a major problem, as the tendering procedure will not allow new operators to enter the area. this in turn will lead to the procurement of bad, old and unsafe boats in the archipelago, which the population will have to use to try to get around, and that is a bad result. thank you, sir.
mr president, mr commissioner, public procurement accounts for almost 20% of the eu's gross domestic product. in the committee on employment and social affairs we wanted to highlight the impact of public procurement on employment policy and how we can improve the opportunities for smes to participate in procurement through reforms. the encouragement of the current 'scalping' of procurement increases the opportunities for smes to submit their bids. the problem today has been that public operators have made the calls for tenders so large that only large multinational firms have been able to respond and small local operators have lost out on the market. i hope that the addition of electronic procedures will also make it easier for smes to get involved. in the committee on employment and social affairs we also set stricter conditions for particularly low tenders to ensure that labour legislation is respected and that the lowest bid is not the result of social dumping. it is also in the interest of every honest entrepreneur to ensure that all social legislation is complied with. the main reform of the public procurement directive, however, is that parliament has preferred the criterion of the most economically advantageous overall price to the lowest price. tax money must be used to get the best quality possible. however, determining quality criteria requires purchasing skills, otherwise only the cheapest second-class quality is obtained. in future, procurement will be able to take greater account of life-cycle costs and social values and to increase the uptake of various innovations. on the other hand, the monitoring of these criteria may also increase bureaucracy.
mr president, i would like to thank mr tarabella and mr juvin for their excellent and valuable work. the eu has already regulated public procurement before this reform, but unfortunately the only weaknesses in the legislation have been the complexity of the systems, the over-dominance of low prices and the weak position of smes. small entrepreneurs have not had a real chance to participate in many projects that are too large, even if they have the skills and knowledge. it is important to consider the whole life cycle of products. the public sector, which is under severe economic pressure, has so far found it too easy to neglect the environment, sustainable development and innovation. the mere insistence on the lowest possible price has also been short-sighted. the reform we are now undertaking will indeed give us the opportunity to send a clear message that support for small businesses, honest practices, the environment and social justice are an essential part of the european public sector.
in writing. the new procurement directive clarifies the rules on procurement in the member states. i am particularly pleased that the lowest price should no longer be the only competitive criterion. the directive also provides a framework for national procurement legislation in terms of simplifying procurement management and allowing for innovation. it is not sensible to make procurement according to the strictest interpretation or 'for the sake of certainty', but it must be made a strategic tool at municipal level: what is put out to tender, when and how. the introduction of organic production as a criterion for food purchasing or the fragmentation of large purchasing bases for local small businesses are concrete ways in which purchasing can increase local growth and prosperity. a strategic decision may also be a non-competitive decision. the new directive emphasises the right of member states to decide on the competition of social services. it is important that the national legislative bodies now apply common sense to social services and that in future only those services are put up for competition which have a real demand on the market. training guide dogs for the blind or maintaining first aid and shelters are not. the strategic purchasing decisions are also in line with the europe 2020 objectives. public procurement accounts for one fifth of the eu's gross domestic product. the objectives of employment, resource efficiency and social justice must be taken into account from the municipal level.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr reinhard bütikofer, for his excellent work. all too often we hear the argument that environmental protection is the antithesis of economic and industrial progress. in reality, technologies, processes and solutions that promote climate protection and sustainable development, such as resource efficiency, are important industrial employers and their importance is only increasing. in my country, finland, cleantech has already grown larger than our traditional economic backbone, the paper industry. in the second year, cleantech sales increased by 15%, despite the slightly negative overall economic development. over a third of maani cleantech's revenue comes from energy efficiency, and of course renewable energy is also a big part of that. green technologies and solutions are important for employment throughout europe. the commission estimates that renewable energy and energy efficiency could create 5 million new jobs in europe this decade. according to the world wildlife fund and the global cleantech group, six of the top 10 countries in the cleantech innovation index are eu countries, but china and india are rapidly encroaching and already breathing down our necks. last week, the joint meeting of the envi and itre committees endorsed three climate goals for 2030: emissions reduction, renewable energy and energy efficiency. this is also in the interests of european industrial development and employment. the only way we can stay ahead is to keep pushing the industry to do better.
mr president, greece has been in the eye of the economic storm for several years. the first aid package was granted in may 2010. the economy has been tight, pensions and salaries have been cut, but, dear prime minister, how is it possible that defense spending is still so high? the notebook for this greek presidency shows that in 2011 greece still spent the most on defence, at 4.6% of gdp. we have heard here that greece has no money for cancer patients, but it has had money for defence, so that it is, for example, the fifth largest purchaser of conventional arms in the world. only india, china, south korea, and pakistan have purchased more conventional weapons as a proportion of their gdp. this is strange, and it should be given a lot more attention. looking at the terms and duration of this first loan package, i read here that the greek loan programme is for three years and will end in 2013. i must say that those who have criticised the crisis management have been wrong, but the lenders of the loan package have not always been right either.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve road safety in the area of road safety. i believe that it is important to maintain security in the collection and transmission of such information, which i believe is reasonably achieved through this legislation.
mr president, this new procurement directive is a major step forward in europe: towards better service, better price-performance and overall economic benefits for european consumers. but it is also an important step towards better integration of environmental and social considerations in public procurement and, above all, towards seeing public procurement as a strategic tool that contributes to the europe 2020 goal of greener, more social and more innovative growth. it is also essential because, with reformed, improved competition rules, we can better enable european small businesses to benefit from our public procurement, which is a major driver of european growth, success and employment.
mr president, i too supported this important report. with this reform, the lowest price should no longer be the main criterion, but in future the best offer from a truly macroeconomic point of view should always win. it is also important to deal with tenders that are cheap because of poor quality and whose price is exceptionally low. these low prices do not meet the quality criteria for public procurement in the environmental and social fields. the commission has also found that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the aid is compatible with the internal market. it is important for the unity, credibility and equality of the eu that in a global market all businesses have the same obligations to pay taxes and social security contributions as local businesses. to do all this, we need a lot of training.
mr president, it is important that in this context of public procurement, the areas which are public shared services of strategic importance for the well-being of citizens and the stability of our societies, such as water, energy and transport processes, are defined and leave more public freedom of action and also reduce the pressure of competition. i personally think that the council and parliament have not been entirely successful in this demarcation, because energy should be a common normal product on the european market. in fact, we should have a strong european energy market if we want to promote more efficient use of energy, better common energy networks and also the use of renewable energy, so hopefully in the future energy can be included in the normal competitive fields.
mr president, according to the treaties of the european union, a high level of consumer protection is one of our core values. a high level of consumer protection also includes the right of consumers to make choices and to be informed about the products they use. it is therefore incomprehensible that the commission, and also the majority of the house in the vote today, have chosen a line which effectively prevents the labelling of honey as a possible gmo by means of a termite adventure. everyone knows that bees don't fly hundreds or thousands of miles. it is therefore entirely possible to label honey products in which honey-collecting bees have also been exposed to gmo products, thus also giving consumers the opportunity to choose honey products in which this risk does not exist. i hope that we can come back to this question later.
mr president, when some of us criticise free movement in europe, we should remember that free movement in europe was not something europeans could take for granted in the 1940s, 1930s or 1950s and not even in the 1960s. in july 1961, when i arrived in berlin as a young man, 10 000 germans – europeans – came over to west berlin. on 13 august of the same year, that free movement was abandoned. so you will find no sympathy in my soul for those members who are now speaking against free movement in europe. it is something which is morally totally horrible.
mr president, the rapprochement between kosovo and serbia has been one of the high representative's greatest achievements, and i congratulate her on that. although we now have a formal agreement on normalisation, we must ensure that it is properly implemented and that the remaining open issues are discussed further. as the report states, it is regrettable that the eu member states' policy of recognition of kosovo has had a negative impact on the negotiations for the stabilisation and association agreements. the eu and eulex kosovo also bear a great deal of responsibility. i am unfortunately a little disappointed with the results of eulex kosovo in recent years. it is not necessarily the eu's fault, but it must be open to discussion. eulex has failed to root out corruption in kosovo, and in particular to investigate high profile cases. member states shall remain ready to commit their resources to eulex. the mission could be the flagship of civilian crisis management, as there are very few executive missions in the history of the world. now eulex has too many cases pending and the staffing is constantly deteriorating.
mr president, it is regrettable that northern iceland, which had already made a long way towards eu membership, has now fallen off the wagon because of the waves of internal politics. it is, of course, a relief to know that recent opinion polls show that a large proportion of icelanders want their country to remain a member of the eu. the pace of iceland's eu membership also sends the wrong signal to citizens of other applicant countries. the application of iceland and the accession of croatia gave a new impetus to eu integration and showed that, despite the economic crisis, membership still has an attraction. the case of iceland shows that the ruling party lacks long-term faith in the eu project. so we must also look at ourselves in the mirror. the union would benefit from iceland's membership, and that is welcome. i hope that a referendum on this issue will be held as soon as possible, so that neither side will be forced into a limbo of ignorance that wastes resources and eats away at the credibility of both.
mr president, when the world's youngest state has been in such deep trouble since independence, the situation is reflected far beyond its borders, endangering the stability of the region. it is therefore crucial that sudan now has new hope and the full support of the international community. i also see some signs of hope: it is positive that the igad has taken on the role of mediator of peace and that the regional organisations have understood their important role as mediators of peace. last weekend i had the opportunity to discuss the subject with kjell magne bondevik, former prime minister of norway and director of the oslo centre. it became clear that there is a glaring lack of democratic knowledge in sudan, starting with how the government and the opposition work and what the parties are for. of course, it is good that the same organization has done vital work there as one of many others. in the meantime, the eu's humanitarian aid will play a key role. giving aid is difficult because of the violence, but we must take responsibility as the world's largest humanitarian actor. after that, we could consider a civilian crisis management mission.
madam president, we can and should do much more with regard to this crisis. urgent help is needed, and europe should provide it. we would like to call on the member states to consider contributing armed forces and police to the un mission in south sudan. we also call on the vice-president/high representative to coordinate such contributions via the relevant common security and defence policy structures. more specifically, we need to initiate the planning process for follow-up to the european union aviation security mission (euavsec), with a focus on security sector reform and demobilisation, disarmament and reintegration. we also call for the high representative to support, if it is deemed necessary, on-going intergovernmental authority and development negotiations, and to consider mobilising european experts in mediation, dialogue and reconciliation in order to help this process. this is a case where we need better coordination of special envoys and representatives from the eu, the us, norway and the united kingdom.
madam president, honourable members, the austerity focus of the economic crisis has resulted not only in massive unemployment but also in massive homelessness. the problems are related, but as long as there is no solution to the unemployment problem, we have to focus on homelessness as a separate issue. a strategy is needed. many member states have identified this as a priority, while in some it is a new concern. a coordinated approach is necessary, and the eu has a responsibility to focus on this problem and to provide advice and strategy. there is a need for emergency help but also – and above all – for housing policies that provide a more permanent solution to homelessness.
mr president, commissioner, homelessness is one of the most serious problems facing europe in the wake of the economic crisis, and it is often accompanied by multi-dimensional social and health problems. homelessness cannot be defined with complete clarity. it is a phenomenon which, at different times and in different countries, has very different connotations. this makes it difficult to make a comparable estimate of homelessness and the number of homeless people. as many colleagues have said, the last time we discussed this issue was in 2011 and parliament asked for a strategy to better understand the situation. i am one of those who believe that the member states should have the responsibility and the competence to implement social policy, but of course we need joint coordination and the exchange of best practice. fortunately, national homelessness strategies have been developed in many member states and are working. in my home country, finland, the long-term unemployment reduction programme has been based on the principle of housing first. it argues that housing and improved living conditions reduce the use of services such as drug treatment and hospital care and motivate many people, for example those with drug problems, to seek rehabilitation. when you have a roof over your head, you want to put your life back together in many ways. the new model focuses significantly more on preventing and reducing homelessness permanently than on the development of temporary housing or temporary accommodation. it is also understood that supporting people in existing housing will be much more cost-effective for society than treating the consequences of homelessness in hospitals, drug treatment centres or prisons.
mr president, as a person who lives on the shores of the baltic sea, i would like to thank my colleagues for this oral question and i hope that the commission will take it with the appropriate seriousness. the eu's maritime regions have unfortunate examples of serious environmental damage, such as erika and prestige, which have left their mark on the environment. fortunately, however, we have learned from these by developing our preventive legislation in the right direction. i agree with the concern expressed by this oral question. marine conditions require a clear concept of environmental damage, distinguished from economic, material and moral damage. the environment deserves it. we deserve it. i therefore support extending the scope of the directive on the prevention and remedying of environmental damage to include compensation for environmental damage caused by disasters at sea. in my own region of the baltic sea, the risk of environmental damage is particularly high, because the traffic is huge and the transports often contain substances whose damage to the ecology of that particular fracking area would be completely unsustainable. economic and material damage is a secondary factor if irreversible environmental damage has occurred. the international iopc compensation fund, which the council decided to establish more than ten years ago, is not a sufficient instrument. the trials in france concerning erika haaber also showed that the need to update legislation is timely. when i was rapporteur for the whole aarhus treaty process at the beginning of the millennium, i stressed the rights of citizens, the importance of openness and transparency in government, but especially the preservation of power and accountability in the institutions to which it belongs. the commission now has an excellent opportunity to take responsibility for this.
mr president, according to the plans of the maltese parliament, citizens of non-eu countries could buy a maltese passport under certain conditions. the economies of the countries of the european union are in crisis and even the best of them are only just beginning to recover. not all advice, however, is expensive, much less permissible. although this plan is limited to 1,800 passports, the idea is offensive and discriminatory. eu citizenship must be based on residence and cannot be sold at auction to the highest bidder. the idea of the maltese prime minister is questionable even in the eyes of the maltese themselves. more than half of the people in the house are not in favor of this controversial plan. the maltese parliament must therefore reject this motion. the national parliaments should instead focus on finding ethically sustainable solutions to improve employment and overcome the economic recession.
mr president, the future of the serbs is in europe. the stabilisation and association agreement, which entered into force last september, is therefore of great importance. the agreement provides a framework for cooperation between serbia and the eu. however, the biggest problem and obstacle to serbia's membership is corruption and organised crime. the question of serbia's membership is linked to the question of stability in europe as a whole. the entire western balkan region will also benefit from serbia's progress towards europe, as serbia acts as a regional driver. but the balkan wars still haunt the society. fortunately, however, the younger generation has been able to grow up in peace and wants a europeanization of serbia. for them, the freedom of movement that visa-free travel brings is an important sign of hope and freedom. each country that wants to join the eu is monitored for its ability to meet the conditions and criteria for membership. in this respect, therefore, the future of serbia is in the hands of the serbs themselves.
in writing. - like many other colleagues, i am very pleased with the progress made by serbia in the field of eu integration and voted in favour of the report. but the country has a lot of work to do. i would like to focus on improving the business and investment climate in serbia. the country is in dire need of foreign investment, but it is very difficult for european companies, for example, to operate in serbia. the serbian economy has grown enormously in recent years, thanks in particular to foreign investment and an improved business climate, and serbia has recovered relatively well from the effects of the european economic crisis. taxation has been rationalized, the exchange rate has been balanced, the exchange rate has improved, and the country has a nice reserve of foreign currency. the policy of serbia in these areas has improved considerably and the banking sector is functioning. however, the greatest obstacle is still to improve the transparency of government and to root out corruption. the establishment of a company in serbia is complicated by the administrative burden, the difficulty of registering property, the difficulty of obtaining loans for foreigners, the insufficient protection of investors, etc. i would hope that our next report on serbia will focus on these elements and that we will discuss this with serbian members of parliament. more and more europeans are looking to enter the balkan market. the dynamic private sector in serbia also enhances the willingness of citizens to engage with kosovo, bosnia and herzegovina and croatia on issues of common interest.
i too, mr president, supported this resolution, because important political, administrative and economic reforms have already been implemented in kosovo. however, only 23 eu member states have recognised kosovo's independence. the launch of negotiations on an eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement last october was a major step forward, as were the first local elections at the end of the year. the kosovo government should, however, accept the extension of eulex's mandate, as the work is still very much in progress. kosovo has made little progress in combating corruption. furthermore, further action is needed to bring the ethnic communities of albanians and serbs closer together, especially in the municipalities of mitrovica and zveca. the major challenge for kosovo is the development of a multi-ethnic society and the rights of all minority groups.
mr president, iceland already meets the copenhagen criteria for eu membership and is therefore eligible for membership. but the people in iceland have spoken, and there have been parliamentary elections. we must listen to the icelandic people directly on this matter, that is self-evident. the planned referendum on the continuation of eu membership negotiations will be a question of iceland's fate. iceland is very close to the union. as a well-off nordic welfare state and member of the european economic area, it has already assimilated a large part of the union's rules, but eu membership can give icelanders the opportunity to influence eu policy. he's not gonna get it if he stays out. the union would benefit from iceland as a member state with strong democratic traditions and an active civil society. iceland would also act as a strategic bridgehead for the eu in the arctic region. at the same time, it would have a lot of knowledge about renewable energy.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, the situation in both laos and cambodia is a matter of defending the situation of human rights activists and opposition members. in the joint resolution we have highlighted, among other things, the problems of the labour market, which these people have been putting themselves in difficulty by criticizing. in cambodia, for example, 23 people were arrested following protests in phnom penh on 2 and 3 january, in which textile workers demanded higher wages. peaceful demonstrations turned violent, were dispersed by government security forces, and excessive use of force resulted in the deaths of two people and the injury of numerous others. in laos, we have particularly wanted to highlight the situation of sombath somphone, who has been fighting for the rights of the rural poor in laos for more than 30 years and has called for the expansion of civil society. we demand that his situation be clarified, at this time nothing is known about him.
mr president, the leaders of the opposition met with the representatives of the european parliament in the autumn and it was very clear from the meetings that the opposition representatives and the protesters are in constant danger. the main demand of the opposition, which should also be supported by the members of parliament as democrats, is that crimes and offenses against protesters and trade unionists be investigated immediately. the government has said it will investigate the cases, but it is calling for an independent and international investigation. two days ago, representatives of the opposition coalition were also questioned by the court for inciting public unrest and violence, even though they had only organized peaceful demonstrations. so we must demand the following: the implementation of comprehensive electoral reforms and the holding of new elections as soon as possible, an immediate investigation into the government's human rights violations, the unconditional release of 23 imprisoned trade unionists, the withdrawal of all charges against the opposition and the lifting of the ban on public assembly. the eu delegation must do its best in cambodia.
mr president, the rights of textile workers and workers in general are undervalued in many countries, including those from which the eu member states import textiles. i would even guess that there are often people in this room wearing clothes that say made in cambodia. i would like to ask the commissioner whether the eu has considered, and could not consider, that these products, which come from different developing countries, from distant countries, should be imported, not only to check that the products are of good quality and that they are in good condition, but also to check that the workers' rights are in order and that the factories have working conditions. especially when the company is owned by european companies.
author. − mr president, recently several people died outside the capital of bangladesh, according to the police. the report says that at least 18 people were killed. we need to carry out prompt, independent and transparent investigations into this and other recent cases. we are concerned at the continued violence, the total paralysis of the state of bangladesh and the confrontation between the two political camps. it is very regrettable that the parliament and the political parties did not find a compromise, which is needed if the people of bangladesh are to have a chance to express their will for democratic change. as the political turmoil worsens, bangladesh is trying to emerge from poverty and reinvigorate its industries. there have been a series of disasters: there was a factory collapse, as we know, killing 1 100 workers exposed to hard working conditions in an industry employing four million. we urgently appeal to all the country’s political actors not to undermine even further the country’s political and economic stability. the people of bangladesh need disaster management, labour rights and women’s empowerment.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the parliamentary elections in bangladesh were unfortunately unsuccessful due to violence on the day of the elections and the opposition boycotting the elections. the year 2013 was the most violent year in the country's history since its independence. strikes and the confrontation between two political camps have paralysed daily life. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the deaths must be properly investigated and the harsh methods used by the government security forces must be stopped. the european external action service and the eu member states must act effectively to ensure that the government and parliament of bangladesh also abolish the death penalty. in bangladesh, national pain is deeply felt and the crimes and injustices of the past have not yet been overcome. without national reconciliation, society will simply stall.
mr president, the sanctity of human life is inviolable and inviolable. all states also have a duty to prevent violence based on individual characteristics, such as sexual orientation and gender identity, and all forms of hate speech and stigmatisation. however, voluntary sexual intercourse between adults of the same sex is still considered a crime in dozens of countries. such crimes may even be punishable by death. recently, such a fundamental law violating human rights has been passed in uganda and nigeria. russia has also passed a law banning vague "homosexual propaganda". indeed, political and religious leaders often seek to intimidate citizens and restrict their rights in questionable ways. unfortunately, in these societies, there has also been a rise in violence against sexual minorities. my friends, we must treat each other as human beings and as equals. we must defend the right of every human being to live in dignity and to have his own identity.
i consider this debate, based on the reports, to be very important, mr president, commissioner, because it highlights the need for better regulation at eu level, with particular emphasis on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, as well as on infringement procedures and interinstitutional relations. in the eyes of the public, the eu has become a bureaucratic and unnecessarily regulatory apparatus that is detached from the daily life of the people. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i am sure that we all need healthy tools, but can we not rely on education and common sense without having to regulate everyone by legislation? however, the commission is also becoming and has already become a very important refit project, and this is welcome, because it is precisely the need for legislation that needs to be assessed, on the one hand, and the proportionality on the other.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, thank you again and to all the members for the many valuable comments and suggestions. the commission will certainly take them into account when further developing and applying the smart regulation agenda. let me emphasise again that smart regulation and refit are not about the ability to abolish or reduce the fundamental rights of citizens and workers. they are about achieving our eu policy objective in the most efficient way, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, in close cooperation with national parliaments. smart regulation and its correct application are shared responsibilities. as i have said already, they are shared responsibilities between the commission, the council, parliament and the member states. the commission has presented its ambitious agenda in this regard. let us work together in a spirit that ensures that our citizens and businesses benefit in the end, because we are working for them. we have to eliminate ‘red tape’, as we already discussed concerning the regulation which is on the table, and we need to do it with public documents. so a lot of the things we need to agree upon will go in this direction, and i count on parliament to allow us to do them, not only in theory but also in practice.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, this report is quite technical and i would like to thank not only the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation, but also my assistant and the commission for their technical expertise and also the council for the very rapid progress of the trialogue. then what is this about? the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures regulation aligns existing eu legislation with the ghs, the global harmonized system, which is the un system for identifying and informing users of hazardous chemicals. this un system provides information on the hazards of chemicals through a variety of standard clauses and labels on packaging and safety data sheets. however, following the adoption of that regulation, it became apparent that technical adaptations are needed to five directives as they contain references to eu legislation on the classification and labelling of chemicals. almost all the amendments dealt with these technical points. the adaptation of the references and terminology contained in these five directives to the regulation does not require any changes to the scope of the directives or to the level of protection provided for in them, and we did not consider it desirable to undertake such a process at this stage. however, we considered it very important that the introduction should mention that in the light of rapid technological developments, all five of these directives will be reviewed periodically in order to provide for consistent legislation and, on the other hand, to ensure an appropriate level of health and safety protection whenever hazardous chemical substances and mixtures are present in the working environment. we also wanted to pay special attention to workers in occupations where they are exposed to a variety of substances and mixtures on a daily basis, sometimes even without adequate protection. among these groups of workers in need of special protection, we succeeded in highlighting pregnant and breastfeeding workers by means of references, and in addition, for young workers, certain self-reactive substances and mixtures, certain organic peroxides and especially flammable substances were added to these references. we also wanted to make it clear that occupational safety and health should not be seen as a particular burden, and i am therefore glad that in the introduction we were able to make it clear as parliament that, while it is important not to impose an unnecessary administrative burden on small and mediumsized enterprises, appropriate and appropriate health and safety standards should never be seen as a burden, because they are fundamental rights and should be applied without exception in all sectors of the labour market and to all types of enterprises, regardless of their size.
member of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, thank you for these comments and feedback. the commission is now looking forward to the adoption of the proposal by the council and publication of the directive in the official journal. i am convinced that this is an important contribution to the protection of eu workers at the workplace. indeed as mr christensen said, the role of the social partners is very important; it has been and it continues to be. to mr niculescu, let me just say that, although it is important to highlight the role of specific sectors, normally the question in the legislation is how we deal with particular types of risk irrespective of the economic sector. so when we are dealing with exposure to electromagnetic fields for example, this has to be considered irrespective of whether the sector is transport or manufacturing, and so on. i agree with ms harkin that we need to have a specific focus on smes. we have to help smes comply with legislation without excessive burdens on them. i am sure that what we have heard today will help the commission in further work in the area of occupational health and safety.
the rapporteur. - mr president, it has become clear from this debate that the strict guidelines for the handling of dangerous substances are not seen as an administrative burden but as a matter of guaranteeing safety for all. however, for hazardous chemicals, up-to-date information is of the utmost importance and many smes may find it difficult to keep up with changing legislation if they have to look for information in many different places. i must therefore say that it sounded very good when commissioner andor said here that the commission now has a guidance and advice website where this information is available to small businesses absolutely free of charge. this was the point raised by parliament in its report, so we specifically considered that such an explanatory guide should be given, especially to smes, and so this wish has been granted, thank you for that.
mr president, the publication of the eu justice scoreboard has raised a number of questions in the member states. the objective itself, namely to monitor the independence, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the judicial system for citizens, makes sense when it comes to comparing civil and commercial law, but the word of caution is nevertheless appropriate. as some of my colleagues have pointed out, it is rather difficult to measure the effectiveness of the justice system by using only different statistical parameters, because we always have to take account of the structural features and also the way in which history and social traditions have given rise to different legal systems. i believe that this scoreboard will work best by exchanging best practice and perhaps the member states themselves will see that there are some areas where they are lagging behind other countries and where improvements can be made.
mr president, the growth potential of the internal market will not be fully exploited unless the functioning of the distribution market and the quality of logistics services can be ensured. the most important thing for consumers and smes is that the distribution services are reliable and that the return procedures are effective. in the committee on employment, when we made our statement on this, we drew particular attention to the fact that even a fast-growing sector can attract companies which do not, for example, comply with labour protection or respect working conditions, and that there can also be fraudulent businesses. cross-border deliveries are also much more expensive, due to the lack of common standards, and in addition, some regions may use pricing strategies or some companies may use a dominant position in a way that effectively excludes competitors.
as rapporteur for this report, i am pleased that the common rules of the game for european copyright organisations have now been established. the aim was, of course, to increase the effectiveness and visibility of copyright organisations across the eu, but at the same time recognising the importance of their work as a catalyst for the survival and growth of the creative industries. it is therefore essential that member states implement the directive in their national legislation in such a way as to avoid unnecessary red tape and extra costs. i have also heard that copyright organisations are concerned about the impact of the so-called 'hubies' and i hope that all those involved in the implementation of the directive will continue to communicate actively to avoid unnecessary confusion. it is important to ensure that all repertoires represented by organisations are treated, as stated in the directive, on equal and non-discriminatory terms. our work does not stop here, the area is growing and we are waiting for the legislation to come.
in writing. - the report on the future role of the court of auditors successfully outlines the role of the eca in the future, highlighting, among other things, the need to strengthen the supervision of the eca's activities and, therefore, of the use of eu funds. it is now essential for the european court of auditors to focus more resources on assessing whether the funds budgeted for the eu commission have been used economically, effectively and efficiently. the court is also invited to take into account in its annual work programme the issues of importance to eu citizens, as reported by parliament's committee on budgetary control, which is responsible for the interests of the citizens. in addition, the audit committee of the esf should also submit its audit report to the european parliament in the future. only in this way will the use of taxpayers' money be made as transparent as it should be. the report also outlines the procedures for appointing the members of the court of auditors. the report strongly emphasises that the council must respect parliament's decision when appointing the members of the court of auditors. i voted in favour of this important report.
in writing. - i vote in favour of amendments nos 1 and 3 because the eu should not, in the name of better regulation, weaken eu labour law and workers' health and safety at work. it would not be better regulation.
in writing. - mr president, i have just voted in favour of this important report. i am pleased that the report addresses the increasing prevalence of advertising on the internet and the importance of improving the position of the most disadvantaged consumers. minors do not have the same ability to understand the purpose of an advertisement as an adult. children also do not understand the difference between fantasy and reality. advertising to children should therefore be so concrete throughout europe that children understand the messages of advertising correctly. advertising in the form of a task, a competition or a cartoon is not such. likewise, the elderly do not always understand the contracts they are entering into, and they often lack the ability to check invoices or to be deceived into expensive litigation. i therefore warmly support the report by mr rochefort and its idea that protecting the rights of all consumers is one of the fundamental values of our union.
in writing. - mr president, i have just voted in favour of this important report. one of the objectives of the eu's electronic single market is to encourage consumers to order products from other member states. however, there are many obstacles to the expansion of e-commerce. in addition to different consumption habits, the obstacle is consumer distrust of online shopping. too many consumers miss out on the benefits of online shopping simply because they do not believe that the product they have ordered and paid for will ever arrive. i am glad that we are working to integrate and clarify the parcel delivery market. without a functioning distribution market, european consumers will not be able to enjoy the tangible benefits of the internal market, such as cheaper prices and a wider choice of products in online shops.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, we have discussed this tax many times before. personally, i am not in favour of this tax and i cannot understand why some people want to punish their member states and their businesses with such a levy. in my view, the benefits of this tax are clearly less than the likely risks. the tax would be very damaging to the financial sector's vitality. further privatisation would jeopardise the ability of banks and the financial sector to act as drivers of the economy and prosperity. this tax would increase the costs of financial sector companies, through which they would pass on to customers. the increase in the cost of banking services would cause headaches especially for those people for whom the cost of services matters, that is, those on low incomes. this is not the kind of justice we want to see in europe. if the tax is implemented in the euro area, or as it currently appears, among a narrower group of member states, the tax return would likely be negative. the new tax would be harmful to the economy as a whole, whose growth and recovery depend on foreign investment. it could drain the investments of financial firms and shift jobs in the sector to another country where there is no tax. i am also personally concerned about whether it can really be guaranteed that when certain member states want to introduce a european financial transaction tax, the member states that are excluded from it will not be harmed by the tax. i understand the ideals behind the tax, which might work if the tax were to be used globally. however, i am realistic and i do not see why eu countries should rush to make their own situation more difficult voluntarily when a global financial transaction tax is still a very distant idea. it is totally irresponsible to ignore the negative effects of the financial transaction tax, which some member states already have a strong experience of, in the name of idealism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder why so many people seem to fear climate protection more than climate change, which at least threatens the very existence of societies. it is good that the joint committee meeting has agreed to support the three climate objectives, even though the level of the objectives proposed by the committees is not sufficient. the commission's own studies show that the three climate objectives would improve employment, energy security and health, and reduce the fossil fuel import bill. however, the commission does not propose three climate objectives, but a compromise of compromises. who among us believes in the big leap, that after 2030, in the next 20 years, we will reduce emissions more than in the previous 40 years combined? in my country, cleantech has already grown larger than the traditional industrial backbone, the paper industry, and over a third of cleantech's revenue comes from energy efficiency. green technologies are also important for the whole of europe, with an estimated 5 million new jobs. this should be taken into account when setting targets.
in writing. the commission's decision to backtrack on the binding renewable energy target is not surprising. the 'triple 20' target agreed in 2007 was unrealistic for renewables: it cannot be achieved in an environmentally or economically sustainable way. the results showed that a three-digit number of the same size indicated a high level of economic illiteracy. "what i said" is a repugnant phrase and should be used sparingly, but it is appropriate now: i have been waiting for this and i said it back in 2007. the targets would trigger a distortive subsidy system on the electricity market which prevented normal pricing in the allowance market. that is why i cannot support parliament's idea of three objectives. this has resulted in a poorly functioning electrical system which is costly for the customer. at the same time, investors are exposed to high risks, as aid can be changed in the middle of everything. the jobs created have also often been short-term and have come to pay a lot. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to the detriment of the environment. if we really want more binding targets, i would support country-specific energy self-sufficiency targets. the goal of energy self-sufficiency for renewables was originally intended to be achieved, but it got out of hand in a way that is not environmentally sustainable. the reformation became a religious mantra that you could pay whatever you wanted. and it really paid off. there is no sensible bioeconomy in the fact that logs are being imported from outside the eu for burning or that imports of pellets into the eu have multiplied. i hope we wake up now.
in writing. the plenary voted this week on the parliament's position on the 2030 climate and energy targets. the debate has focused on whether the package should contain just one binding target greenhouse gas cuts or whether it should be made up of three complementary binding targets. the three-package of binding targets is a must, both for europe's future economic growth and for the achievement of climate objectives. the commission's studies show that the combination of the three binding targets would increase eu gdp by 0.53%, or €70 billion a year. in addition, the binding energy efficiency target alone is estimated to reduce europe's energy bill by a total of eur 200 billion per year and create up to 2 million new jobs here. european business needs a predictable and ambitious climate framework to succeed. in the last few days, numerous european companies and citizens have appealed to meps for three binding objectives. the combination of three binding targets is in line with the climate challenge and is much more ambitious than the commission's proposal a few weeks ago, which sets a single target - a target to cut greenhouse gas emissions.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs isabelle thomas, and the shadow rapporteur, mrs carmen fraga, for their cooperation in this technical update of the control regulation. with the reform of the common fisheries policy, which parliament approved last year, we have taken many important steps towards more sustainable fishing and sustainable fish stocks. it has been absolutely necessary to break the negative spiral we have been in for the last ten years. it has meant reduced stocks, reduced biodiversity and fewer jobs. but reform is only as good and ambitious as its implementation. the control regulation and controls are an important tool to ensure that the common rules of the game are also respected in practice. poaching and illegal fishing are not only harmful to fish stocks and the environment, but also prevent professional fishermen from competing on equal terms. we cannot have a policy where cheating pays off. instead, those who follow the rules are to be favoured. that's why control is important. last week the negotiations on the european maritime and fisheries fund were concluded. it is gratifying that parliament got its demand for increased appropriations for control through, and we made this money more readily available to the member states. this means that member states have greater scope for implementing control measures. at the same time, the increased resources allow us in the european parliament to place greater demands on the member states to actually implement the measures they have promised. in the long term, this will mean better fish stocks, better economic opportunities for professional fishermen to earn a living from their fishing and more european jobs in the commercial fishing industry.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, thank you for your kind words during the preceding debate. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this file. it has been very uncontroversial and we had broad agreement between the political groups. the eu-swiss competition agreement is a step in the right direction. it will facilitate an improvement between switzerland and the eu and will, we hope, benefit both companies and consumers. the agreement goes beyond what we have in agreements with other third countries and provides a framework for coordination and cooperation in enforcement activities. it also provides for the mutual notification of enforcement activities affecting each other’s important interests and, unlike other cooperation agreements, includes provisions concerning the exchange of evidence obtained by the competition authorities when they investigate the same case. the european union is switzerland’s biggest trading partner, and the agreement is therefore of great importance. value and supply chains are increasingly global, and competition cooperation between the eu and third countries is therefore important and very welcome. this agreement could open the way to future agreements with other third-country partners and is therefore of importance for both switzerland and the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i can only regret that it took such a long time for the european parliament to arrive at this point, almost a year after the arms trade treaty (att) was adopted in new york. let us hope that member states will now swiftly ratify the good provisions of the att and that it will enter into force swiftly. nine state parties have already ratified the att, and if 28 eu member states join this group, then the 50-state-party ratification threshold will soon be reached. although the att has the word ‘trade’ in its title, we have to make clear that this is a new arms control regime and it is an instrument which serves security, peace and disarmament objectives. the aim of the att is not free trade but less trade, because of the risk of contributing to violations of human rights and humanitarian law, genocide, crimes against humanity and regional tensions, and organised crime and terrorism. this is why the implementation of the att is crucial. eu member states need to define ‘trade’ and ‘transfer’ very clearly, and to make sure that they are willing to regulate all kinds of arms transfers and loans. another important element as regards the implementation and revision of the att is the issue of how to incorporate new weapons technologies such as drones. the main issues in this field are research, development and procurement. finally, i want to stress that within the eu we have to discuss and decide how we want to develop and manage different export control regimes.
mr president, it is a matter of great honour that after years of work an agreement has been reached on an international arms trade treaty. the european parliament and the member states of the european union are strong supporters of the agreement, and that is a good thing. the arms trade treaty is necessary because we need common global rules on the arms trade. weapons should not be delivered to countries and regions where genocide is taking place, war crimes are being committed or humanitarian law is being violated. we also need an arms trade agreement to make arms trade more transparent. arms deals should not be conducted in secrecy behind a veil of fog, but every deal should be able to withstand daylight. as has already been said here, this is not a disarmament agreement but rules for trade. common rules also benefit the european defence industry. the defence industry is thriving in a growing market, with the same strict rules applying to all countries, which member states - and hopefully signatories to this agreement - will also respect. there has to be oversight, and it has to be tight, or this deal is meaningless.
in writing. - i think the report we adopted is very balanced and addressed many of the concerns that the liberal group had. as shadow rapporteur for the liberal group on the report, i asked in the committee why the commission is dealing with natural disasters and man-made disasters in the same document. in a natural disaster there is no liable party. however, in a man-made disaster there is always someone that has responsibility. so there is a very big difference insurance-wise. the other thing which is important to bear in mind is what other dgs in the commission do and what other committees in the european parliament are working with. the commission is working with a natural environmental liability directive, and there is also work on updating a nuclear liability directive. those directives are very much linked to this report, and we should not produce reports that overlap or, in the worst case, contradict each other.
in writing. - first of all i want to say that it is of course important for the eu to have a trade defence. however, we must be careful not to go too far and instead raise barriers that will increase the costs for our export industry, curtailing competiveness and triggering potential trade tensions. the list of exceptions introduced in the international trade committee is extensive, going far beyond the commission’s proposal. therefore i could not support that line, and there were several reasons for not supporting these exceptions. first of all, i want it to be a legal instrument, not punishing our trading partners and risking a trade war. secondly, intermediate goods: removing the lesser duty rule will have a negative effect on the eu’s access to intermediate goods. considering the much more globalised value chain of 2013 compared to 1995, when the last reform of the instruments was made, the increased duty level will not only keep finished dumped third country goods out of the european market but might have an impact beyond the scope of foreign goods. lastly, this will also harm european users. i do not want to create more hurdles for the european export industry.
in writing. i have just voted in favour of this important report. too often, passengers are not aware of their rights. in addition, they too often believe the false claims of airline representatives that they are not entitled to claim compensation, for example in cases of significant flight delays or loss of their luggage. i welcome the fact that the report reaffirms the right of passengers to appropriate information and assistance in the event of a problem, and stresses the responsibility of airlines to provide this information and assistance. in order to ensure that consumers' rights are respected, airlines should stop providing vague explanations for delays or cancellations and should inform their customers of the real reasons for the changes. in the future, the use of vague technical reasons or changes in weather conditions without concrete evidence should no longer be accepted. the requirements for improved service for airlines will hopefully also facilitate the work of national consumer authorities in the future. in finland alone, about 10% of complaints handled by the consumer complaints board relate to flight delays.
mr president, many of us call for sanctions. sometimes sanctions work, sometimes they do not. either way, sanctions take a long time to affect the situation. i would like to ask commissioner füle whether he thinks there is time for sanctions to work in this acute situation, and what could be achieved by sanctions.
mr president, although expectations for the geneva ii negotiations were very low, the results of the first round can only be disappointing. the number of casualties during the week-long geneva ii negotiations reached as many as 1,870 people. from the very beginning of the conflict, un experts and the syrian commission of inquiry have confirmed that both sides have committed crimes against humanity. the images released in late january show even industrial and systematic destruction. starvation is being used as a weapon of war in syria, perhaps the most horrific example being the palestinian refugee camp in damascus, jarmugin. the people in the camp eat cats and dogs and live among the corpses of the starving. homes' situation is also shocking. a total of 2,500 starving people are trapped in the besieged areas of the old centre of homs. it is also regrettable that the media is silent on the hunger strikes of 45,000 shiite rebels in zahra and nubli. the negotiations will resume in february. we cannot be anything but pessimistic about them either, as long as all the relevant groups are not sitting around the table.
mr president, in syria the internationally-approved principle of responsibility to protect is a joke. the war goes on, aid access is not available and people die. implementation of the responsibility to protect in syria cannot depend on its leader taking the lead, and we must strongly challenge that state’s ‘right’ to kill its people. there is a need for a new mandate in the united nations to actually implement this principle.
mr president, i have been to egypt many times in recent years and met with virtually all the parties involved, from members of the revolutionary council to political groups, feminist unions, ngos, human rights organizations and the muslim brotherhood. the last time i was there, i got the kind of feedback that the eu is too formulaic. for them, democracy is only the rule of law, and they do not recognize a system that tramples on tyranny and human rights when they are just staring at the election results. the fact is that the democratically elected muslim brotherhood ceased to be democratic as soon as it got into power. they were not interested in democracy, they were interested in control, and therefore the majority of the feedback this time was that support us now, support the new constitution, support that we really want to go on the road to democracy! that's why we need to seek cooperation with the egyptians right now.
madam president, a europe without divisions calls for both russia and the eu, but strategic partnership has, in a way, become strategic patience. while the relationship is not working on a state level, we should not forget civil society. i know the problems with civil society in russia, but if we want to work for a stable strategic partnership in the future, then we have to work with the young people – with the citizens – of russia and actually activate all kinds of youth exchanges and student exchanges in order to build for this partnership in the future. the eu has the instruments for this.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i think the first phase of the banking union was a good one and i voted for it, but i have both fundamental and practical doubts about this second phase. economists have speculated a lot that the collection of such a small amount of money and the inefficiency of its possible use would make the whole banking union project useless. i am particularly concerned about the solidarity of the system, which has also involved the governments. it was clear to me that the member states wanted to have power in the arrangement if it involved solidarity through their banks or any other arrangement. through these banks, it is now being realized. nor should we sell this arrangement to the public with the idea that it will save them money, because that is not the whole truth. if we raise funds from the banks, it is very likely that the banks will pass on the cost to the normal banking fees, which of course hit the underfunded the hardest. the citizens will not get away with this without cost, and this cannot be sold on the idea that a future crisis will be solved without the participation of the taxpayers. on the contrary, taxpayers are participating now, whether there is a crisis or not. i'm more concerned about the timetable. i think we're rushing this thing in the wrong direction. if we have to get the banking union together quickly, if we want it to be fully operational faster, we should not cut the time from this stage of the negotiations. we can cut back on the time for the fundraising phase, for example, which is now set at 10 years, but not on this negotiating period. failure is not an option. this is too important a project. i will give you an example of how complex this project is for different countries. in my home country, finland, there are basically three big banks. two of them are nordically integrated. however, the nordic countries sweden and denmark are about to be left out. this only raises further questions and complicated questions: what happens if these nordic banks get into trouble? i am sorry, but at the moment it seems that this will not happen and that the nordic banks are fine, but if they do get into trouble, how will the countries in different situations behave? we have a legitimate fear that we're just going to be the paymaster here. above all, i am concerned that in the rush to do this, some seem to forget that this is being done for future crises, not for the present one. the most important thing is to ensure that existing problem loans and existing problem balances are not brought under this system. the stress tests that are being done now have failed before. if they fail this time, the banking union will be born dead. i therefore believe that the formula for a good banking union and the achievement of a good banking union will not be achieved by rushing ahead or by increasing political pressure but by peaceful negotiation.
mr president, the eu's climate and energy policy has been a series of consistently inconsistent decisions over a period of 10 years. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the european parliament has called for the eu to continue to pursue the three binding objectives. the commission has already understood that this policy is leading to the ruin of the european economy, but this house has not yet understood it. one shocking example from this vote tells it all. this plenary session removed from the report the fact that between 2005 and 2012, energy prices rose by 38% in europe, while they fell by 4% in the united states. this, and its impact on european competitiveness, should not be a cause for concern. who are you kidding? we are. i voted against this report.
mr president, first of all i regret that the rapporteur, mr delvaux, did not respect the wishes of the majority of the group, but stressed his right to draw his own conclusions without listening to the group. that is why our group voted against the result in the final vote. the rapporteur did not even try to make the effort to bring the majority view to the final result. i do not support the idea of parliament's three objectives. the commission's decision to back down on the binding renewable energy target is right. the binding target triggered a distortive subsidy scheme in the electricity market, which prevented normal pricing in the emission allowance market. if we really want more binding targets, i would suggest country-specific energy self-sufficiency targets. energy self-sufficiency was originally intended to be the renewable targets, but it got out of hand in a way that is not environmentally or economically sustainable. the reformation became a religious mantra that you could pay for anything.
mr president, i am clearly not the only one who feels that we should be able to support the eu's friends in ukraine much more strongly. we are the only hope for many of the protesters, and we should not take this responsibility lightly. we have talked about sanctions in this house, and it is all right if they can be brought about, but they are time-consuming. that's why i'm bringing up something we can do immediately. last week i was organising an event on media and human rights in the european parliament, and one of the speakers suggested that we as a parliament should do the following: send a monitoring team of members of parliament, send camera footage to document abuses, and urge the eu to train and fund civil society activists. these are viable ideas, and i hope that my colleagues will react to them.
mr president, the eu common position on the arms trade actually says that arms should not be transported or sold to countries where there is the risk of human rights breaches. this risk obviously exists in syria. the international arms trade treaty, which was adopted by the united nations and is now being ratified, has unfortunately not been ratified by iran or russia, so arms continue to flow into syria. i support the common position of a european union arms embargo. however, the amendment which was proposed not only includes the arms trade, but also non-lethal equipment that may be going over the border. this is not included in the common position, so i voted against this amendment.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the early elections in thailand were brought to a dismal conclusion when the main opposition candidate, suthin tarat, was shot dead in bangkok. the thai government has responded to the increase in protests and unrest with a heavy hand. the bangkok emergency law has given the government far too many powers. reports of increased violent clashes are worrying and the cases of persons killed and injured in violence should be properly investigated. the boycott of the elections by the main opposition party made the early february elections and the counting of votes considerably more difficult. the boycott of elections and the demonstration are two different things, but it is very worrying to learn that more than one in ten polling stations were unable to open their doors because of the opposition blockade. the right to vote is a sacred right. only democracy and human rights can ensure peace in thailand.
mr president, it is very regrettable that politics is such a fiery and polarizing subject in thailand, which has the potential to be one of the leading players in asia. democracy is democracy, and it can be improved by opposition and civic activism, even under the rule of another party, not just by sitting in government. and elections should be the only way to choose the people's representatives. the rhetoric of a gathering of people is not conducive to democracy. i would like to raise a point concerning the conflict in southern thailand. the demonstrations and political crisis have had a very negative impact on the patani peace process in southern thailand, which started promisingly last year. the negotiations have moved far from the agenda, and unfortunately violence and attacks have increased in the south. this is due both to the government crisis and to the general hopelessness about resolving the conflict. i hope that the peace process will soon be back on its feet. i would also like to express my condolences to all those who have lost loved ones in the past few months. the crimes committed must be investigated immediately and the perpetrators brought to justice.
the author. - mr president, i also have a technical oral amendment which i will say later. transnistria is a deeply divided society. the european union, together with osce, must offer its support. the right to education and the provision of various educational opportunities is a fundamental human right. the right of children in particular to receive education in their mother tongue must be respected. political power-play with culture and the mother tongue must not be allowed, nor any discrimination. a well-organized education is what enables children and young people to develop into active citizens who take society forward. the responsibility for training opportunities lies primarily with the authorities administering the area. education must not be a bargaining chip.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, we have discussed the situation in bahrain on several occasions in this parliament in recent months. we're not doing this for nothing. i would like to raise the issue of freedom of expression in particular. bahrain is ranked 165th in the world in press freedom statistics. it's dropped 66 places in the last four years. 44 journalists and 22 media outlets have been denied entry to bahrain since february 2011. bloggers, journalists and social media users have been harassed and harassed. this has also forced many to self-censor. one tweet can get you up to five years in prison or a fine of 10,000 euros. following the report of the independent bahraini commission of inquiry, the bahraini authorities have promised reforms, but there is still much to be done. it is not right that a joint arab human rights court should be set up in a country which does not respect the fundamental rights of its citizens. i therefore hope that the court will have a positive impact on the situation in the country. i asked for patience and understanding in my last speech, and now i hope to act.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the human rights situation in bahrain is grim. the authorities are using excessive measures to suppress demonstrations and suppress freedom of speech. many civil society activists and human rights defenders have been sentenced to long prison terms. the use of social media as a tool for freedom of expression and human rights must be allowed for everyone, including every bahraini. the european union and its member states must support bahrain in improving its human rights situation. the european union must be able to play a leading role in the development of the union's external relations. the european union must act unanimously on the situation in bahrain so that prisoners of conscience in bahraini prisons are also released quickly.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. we propose to put no later than the end of august 2014. this is a minor change, but it aligns our text with the decision taken by the council of ministers in december, and i hope that this will be acceptable to the other groups as well.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european union must work to ensure that the conditions for third-country students and researchers working in eu member states are improved. according to all estimates, including those of the european commission, europe spends considerably less on research and development than, for example, the united states or japan. at the same time, many students and researchers move abroad because of better conditions and opportunities. my oldest child moved to the united states, because neither finland nor europe understood the linux program at that time. we cannot ignore the fact that europe today has an ageing population and that we are facing a demographic challenge. to sustain today's welfare and to meet tomorrow's challenges, we therefore need more knowledge, innovation and labour. we must therefore, as anna maria corazza bildt also said, do a better job of attracting and retaining students and researchers who are active in the eu. this is particularly important at a time when the reported scepticism towards immigrants and the threat to free movement may be increasingly deterrent. the eu must therefore make the application process easier and faster, while also providing strong support to those coming to the eu throughout the process. in law, eu immigration rules and our union mobility programmes should be more complementary. students and researchers should be able to stay in the eu, even after completing their studies. in this way we can better harness the talent, expertise and creativity of these students, which all eu member states will now really need. i believe that we can only benefit from making it easier for students and researchers to seek and work in the eu, both during and after their studies or research exchanges. we cannot afford to waste the skills that can lead to growth, to prosperity and, in the long run, to new jobs. just what we desperately need.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would first like to say that, in principle, the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of researchers and students from third countries should be renewed and updated. new categories of people have been introduced: paid and unpaid trainees, volunteers and au pairs. the committee on employment would have liked even stricter regulation and better protection for these new groups of people, especially in the case of paid or unpaid training which is characteristic of an employment relationship. we believe that no new pathway should be created for social assistance and that the cost of living should not ultimately fall on the shoulders of the social security systems of the member states. i therefore think that the libe committee has made a mistake in not accepting the view of the empl committee in article 21 that equal treatment in social security, for example family benefits, requires an employment relationship. the commission proposal would guarantee equal treatment for researchers, but the libe committee wants it for students too. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to freedom of movement. the eu has also required an employment relationship to receive family benefits, but these social benefits are now being opened up to students from third countries. i hope that the council will be able to correct this mistake.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, the european semester of economic policy should, at best, encourage the member states to undertake economic reforms and structural changes, but national budgetary autonomy must be preserved. otherwise, this guidance will be easily perceived as a straitjacket by brussels. the debt build-up in the member states must be stopped, otherwise we will leave our children and grandchildren with an absolutely unbearable burden. it has been worrying to hear how the left would like to be further behind the debt growth. the welfare state can only be based on a comprehensive tax system, in which the tax burden is distributed fairly. at the heart of many crisis countries' problems is the public sector, which is over-taxed. the international monetary fund, among others, recommends increasing progressiveness and improving taxation. the taxation must also take account of the potential for growth and job creation. member states are responsible for the recovery of tax systems. in this debate i have also mentioned the ways in which we would like to see social policy financed by taxation increasingly placed under common control. the indicators can indeed be used to monitor the situation in the member states, but it must be seen that, for example, large-scale universal social services are very easily overlooked in tables listing such individual figures, so these interpretations must be made with caution. the most important thing is to recognise that the economic structures and competitiveness of the member states are different. that is why different policies are needed in different countries.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs cecilia wikström, on her excellent report on the community trade mark. i agree that it should be designated as a european union trade mark for the sake of accuracy. the work of the trademark and designs office should be made clearer, especially to smaller operators, and the name change is already a step in the right direction. trade is now largely based on trademarks, and as they have become more expensive and more important, trademark protection must also be developed in a globalised world. a trademark is more durable than a patent, because patents expire, but a trademark can be renewed forever. it is great that trademark owners can now decide whether to register a trademark at national or european level. since eu legislation harmonising the trademark laws of the member states has been in force for over 20 years, the new rules are not revolutionary. the update improves cooperation between national trade mark offices and the european trade mark office and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
mr president, crossborder crime is a continuing challenge for authorities in the eu. in the fight against crime, the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime is one of the most important tools. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of penalties for the use of the euro. that is why the adoption by parliament of the macove report on the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime is so important. it allows for the confiscation of the proceeds of crime, property of equivalent value or funds transferred to third parties, including by means of extended powers, and very importantly, without prior criminal conviction. we therefore want to harmonize the laws of the member states on the freezing and confiscation of funds, as proposed by the commission, in order to catch the bandits, in the language of the people. the european union is also necessary.
in writing. - this proposal is of great importance for the realisation of a common area of freedom, justice and security and is part of the eu's wider strategy to combat crime and corruption. i voted in favour of this important report. these are the means that make it easier for member states to trace, freeze, administer and confiscate criminal assets. it is very worrying that less than one percent of the property acquired through illegal means, such as drug trafficking, counterfeiting, human trafficking and arms smuggling, is now frozen or condemned to be lost. the new rules would ensure that national authorities can quickly identify, trace and freeze, administer and forfeit assets acquired by criminals through illegal means. as the european commission's corruption report, published at the beginning of february, has shown, corruption is a huge problem in the eu. corruption costs the eu €120 billion a year, almost the eu's annual budget. the corruption report was weak in many respects and had shortcomings, notably with regard to detailed recommendations and internal corruption within the eu institutions. i have submitted a request for information to the commission and i hope to find out why so many things were left out of the report.
in writing. - i am pleased that we have once again contributed to deepening cooperation in the area of freedom, justice and security. europol is one of the most concrete and natural forms of cooperation in the eu. it is good that europol's remit will be extended and that europol's activities will be harmonised in line with the requirements of the lisbon treaty, and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal. our proposal creates a parliamentary oversight mechanism for europol's activities and ensures the organisation's accountability to the public. our proposal is to oppose the merger of cepol and europol and to ensure that data protection is respected. our solution is in favour of the citizen, and therefore a good one.
in writing. - i am very pleased with the presentation on the voluntary humanitarian aid corps. the purpose of the teams is to enable european volunteers to contribute collectively to humanitarian operations in accordance with eu values and in such a way that aid is delivered to those in need in the most efficient way. the volunteers also promote the eu's image in the world and integrate ngos into our common foreign policy. i am pleased that we were able to include the following elements in the proposal: strengthening the european identity, the visibility of the eu in the world, ensuring the safety of the volunteer forces, the recognition of the skills acquired by volunteers during their missions, and the value added and the need-based help. i now call on all young people and those who are not so young to apply for european voluntary service. the search is underway right now, and this is a great opportunity to gain experience and help those in need.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty introduced the possibility for the parliament and the council to delegate their powers to the commission in legislation. however, this approach is sensitive and requires caution and the proper application of the treaty. the delegated provisions must take particular account of the democratic nature of the situation. as our proposal shows, the starting point must always be the freedom of the legislator. the delegation of power can therefore only consist in supplementing or amending the provisions in such a way that the conditions relating to the objectives, content and scope of the delegation are fulfilled. our proposal clarifies these preconditions and also ensures that we as parliamentarians can continue to exercise our democratic responsibilities in the future. so i voted for the motion.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr grossetête, and the shadow rapporteurs for their very good work. recently, a public health expert in my own country said that the biggest impact on people's health is made by decisions that are not directly related to health policy. we should remember that, too. the greatest health benefits and the best european added value come from decisions on the environment, food and transport, for example. more than 400 000 people are estimated to die prematurely in europe from air pollution. that's ten times more than the number of people killed in traffic accidents. all too often, health ministers and health experts are left passive when we make decisions about emission limits. the environmental organizations are the ones who will be the main advocates of health. the same is true when decisions are made about transport, such as limiting car noise or promoting cycling. diseases associated with unhealthy food are big killers. but too often, when decisions are taken on the rules governing the marketing of food, consumer organisations are left to defend health. you see and hear a lot less health professionals. i would hope that health experts and health organisations, including ministers and the eu health dg, would also be more active in making decisions about the quality of the air we breathe, food and transport.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, less than 10% of the content on public websites is open to all. it is therefore important to make them legally accessible so that everyone can enjoy electronic services. in practice, accessibility of web pages means that their audiovisual content is transcribed for use by the hearing impaired, that the site is clearly structured and that each link or content item is accessible by means of a specific program. a visually impaired person does not want to hear a huge cacophony of content on one page. the text size should also be adjustable and, for the most important sites, it is also good to have a plain language version available to those with cognitive disabilities. in addition to the websites of public bodies, other important services such as banking services, identity services and all services relating to social benefits will also be made available to all in electronic form. mobile applications must also be covered by the directive.
mr president, commissioner, the increase in youth unemployment throughout the eu, but particularly in countries hit by the economic crisis, has been alarming. the introduction of the youth guarantee has now been recommended in all member states and funds have been allocated from the common budget, in particular to countries with higher youth unemployment. however, it should be remembered that the member states themselves have to contribute to the implementation of the youth guarantee, and that eu money alone is not enough. i would have liked to ask the commissioner whether the member states have understood that they too must play their part in the game. the youth guarantee, which encourages access to employment, education or training, requires a functioning education system in the member states, good labour market policies and social policies to support them. i am afraid that these structural reforms are also not yet completed in many member states. i hope that the youth guarantee will not be reduced to mere words because the member states are unable to do their part. in addition, the employment of young people and other disadvantaged groups is primarily affected by economic conditions. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european youth employment fund. otherwise we risk losing more than just the employment opportunities of young people, we risk losing an entire future generation.
mr president, the youth guarantee is not enough, we know that. i would like to ask the commissioner what is being done to create job places and to get employers to employ young people. what kind of initiatives are there? many young people are leaving europe. how many have left to go to brazil, africa and other countries? do we know this, and who has been leaving? finally i would like to ask about the consequences of youth unemployment on working conditions. i know that salaries are being reduced in crisis-hit countries but what is happening to the working conditions in these countries?
in writing. i have already spoken about the implementation of the youth guarantee and in particular the implementation of the youth guarantee the idea has already been approved by the council. it is the responsibility of the member states to keep their promise to young people that no young person will be without a job, a place of education or a traineeship for more than four months. the implementation of the youth guarantee must take account of at least the following elements: adequate resources must be secured and the youth guarantee must be renewed and developed on the basis of the evaluations carried out. in addition, it is particularly important to provide individual and community support and guidance to groups particularly vulnerable to discrimination, such as young immigrants, the disabled, the sick and those with mental health or addiction problems or learning disabilities. the finnish youth cooperation alliance's successful youth guarantee project has also demonstrated that the role of business and the third sector should be strengthened and clarified and that there is a need for more national and regional coordination and a global approach. in addition, many young people have a vague idea of the youth guarantee. the commission's 2012 employment package recommending a youth guarantee sets out the right tools, but the resources to implement them are insufficient and need to be rapidly increased to ensure the livelihood of young people at work, study or training. the european welfare system is deteriorating. the main reason for extending the working week throughout the eu is to ensure that public sector funding is secured. it is difficult to force anything on the member states, but it is in the common interest of all of us not to lose this generation. that is why i voted in favour of the motion and i would urge my colleagues to do the same.
in writing. - mr president, i have just voted in favour of this important report. we often highlight in our speeches how the single market is the eu's greatest achievement and how important the single market is for growth and employment in europe. unfortunately, however, the completion of the single internal market is still far from being achieved in areas such as digital network and communications services and the energy market. things that play an important role in the daily lives of citizens. that is why i am pleased that the coffert report gives the internal market, with its strengths and weaknesses, the attention it deserves. the single market must not be achieved at any cost. in addition to improving the conditions for european businesses to operate and to be competitive, it is important to pay attention to the position of consumers. we must build consumer confidence in the internal market and strengthen consumer protection, especially for those who are in a vulnerable position. we must also activate and empower consumers and give them a genuine opportunity to make responsible choices in the common internal market. for the good of europe.
in writing. - i voted for the report on an eu-wide ecall system, as i think these kinds of improvements and harmonisation are good for a common europe. it has been calculated that with the ecall system about 1[nbsp ]000 human lives can be saved every year.
in writing. - the eu-indonesia partnership agreement strengthens eu-indonesia relations in a number of policy areas. it is the first of its kind between the eu and asean and will strengthen our cooperation in a number of areas. the eu and indonesia are increasingly cooperating and relations with southeast asia, of which indonesia is the regional leader, are a strategic priority for the eu. indonesia, with 40% of its 240 million inhabitants under the age of 25, is the world's fourth most populous country, the third largest democracy and the world's largest muslim country. in addition, there are millions of people of other religions. our report recognises indonesia for its development of democratic governance, its commitment to pluralism and democracy and its neighbourliness. we note, however, that there are still major challenges to the rule of law, including impunity and minority rights. it is regrettable, for example, that islamic emphasis has been added to public education at the expense of indonesia's motto 'unified in diversity' (which is also the motto of the eu). it would seem that the lack of governmental interference with religion has increased religious and ethnic violence and intolerance. we express our particular concern at the abuses against the ahmadiyya movement and shiite muslims, the closure of churches and the rights of those belonging to non-recognised religious groups. the indonesian government has also committed itself to the implementation of the un guidelines on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. we welcome the outcome of the peace process in aceh, but the problems in the province have also increased in the area of the implementation of religious freedom, which should be promoted in the eu-indonesia human rights dialogues and the framework agreement, and which is why i voted in favour of its conclusion.
in writing. - i also voted in favour of the eu-indonesia readmission agreement. the readmission agreement ensures more effective control of immigration flows and improves the internal security situation in the eu. i agree with the rapporteur that parliament should have the right to participate as an observer in the meetings of the joint readmission committee. representatives of ngos should also be able to attend its meetings. i welcome the rapporteur's proposal that the commission should inform the european parliament of the results of the implementation of the agreement at all stages, and in particular of the measures taken to protect human rights and the fundamental rights of persons to be readmitted. it must also be absolutely certain that readmission will not be carried out if there is a fear of persecution, punishment, inhuman treatment or torture. i am very pleased that the matter was raised at this stage to facilitate further negotiations. i hope that the negotiations on specific obligations will start as soon as possible and without undue delay.
in writing. - the eu-turkey readmission agreement is a very important element in eu-turkey relations. the negotiation process began with the council decisions of 2002 and we have finally reached the concrete elements. the land route through turkey to greece is the main transit route for illegal immigration into the union. the readmission agreement will improve the eu's internal security and tackle cross-border crime, including trafficking in human beings, and will ease the pressure on greece. turkey has linked readmission to visa liberalisation, which is understandable. on the other hand, it is important to remember that turkey is currently facing major problems which show that the country is not yet ready to become an eu member and it is good to keep some 'carrots' on the table. on the other hand, i believe that mobility should be facilitated, particularly for highly educated people and young people. it is therefore good that the eu has responded to turkey's request in the form of a roadmap. it is also of the utmost importance that the gradual introduction of visa-free travel be linked to the legislative and administrative reforms to be carried out in turkey. the problems of the turkish administration, and in particular the corruption scandal, must be criticized, but at the same time positive feedback must be given to turkey for taking responsibility for the syrian refugee crisis. it must also be remembered that turkish citizens must not be punished for the mistakes of the turkish government.
in writing. - i am very pleased with the new ecall system and voted in favour of this excellent proposal. in 2012, 28 000 people died on the roads in the eu - that's too many. many people die because help is not available quickly enough. it is great that the commission has made a proposal on the basis of our resolution. the system would equip new passenger cars and light vans from 2015 with a device that automatically calls the emergency number in the event of an accident, thus speeding up the information about the accident and thus also the initiation of rescue operations. we believe that ecall should be a public and free service throughout the eu by 2015. the motion also strongly links up with my written position calling for the introduction of a pan-european emergency number.
in writing. - insurance is an important issue for all eu citizens, with a strong consumer protection element. this proposal concerns the rules on the sale of insurance and their updating aims to put an end to consumer misinformation. we all know what small print can do. it is great that the proposal now requires the buyer of insurance to 'publicly' provide the seller's identification and contact details, the obligations of the contract, the risks covered and excluded by the insurance and information on the payment of insurance premiums. we also paid special attention to the problem of pinching. the buyer must now be informed of the total cost of the contract, including the various service charges. liability for professional negligence is covered by a liability insurance policy of at least eur 1 250 000 per loss. the proposal will improve consumer protection, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - mr president, i have just voted in favour of this important report. according to some estimates, as much as 15% of the eu's working-age population has some form of disability or impairment. and the number of these people is only increasing as europe ages. most member states have either already enacted legislation on the accessibility of online content or have taken other related measures. however, there are significant differences between the laws and measures adopted by the member states. this is why, for example, not all eu citizens have access to sufficient information on all public sector services that are a prerequisite for active citizenship and the defence of their rights. i therefore warmly support the report by mr chatzimarkakis and its proposal to make public sector websites more accessible. improving access to public services will not only improve the situation of these 80 million citizens, it will make services more accessible to all of us!
in writing. - abuse and prostitution affect gender equality. prostitution and sexual exploitation are undoubtedly gender issues: women and girls sell their bodies, either voluntarily or under duress, and men pay for the services. the majority of persons trafficked for sexual exploitation are women and girls. i have received numerous contacts from concerned citizens in various eu countries. it is my conviction that prostitution is an absolutely repugnant violation of human dignity. the view of prostitution as a 'work' is one reason why women continue to engage in prostitution. i support the so-called nordic model of combating prostitution, i.e. the prohibition of the purchase of sex. however, the eu does not have a law prohibiting prostitution, and each country has its own decision-making powers. however, it is essential to have a common debate at eu level, as prostitution and sexual exploitation are common challenges in all eu countries. in a europe without frontiers, organised crime and trafficking in human beings call for common action!
mr president, the change in ukraine was brought about by courageous and determined citizens. those who fought for weeks and were in the square of maidan at the risk of their lives. they must be congratulated. we talk here, they act. but the ukrainian crisis is not over. things may not change with a change of administration if the administration is not committed to reform. we all know that reforms in ukraine are painful, the economy is in tatters. reforms can be so painful that the dream of a better ukraine can sometimes be shattered. that is why the european union, we, must support ukraine. but we must not create the illusion that there is a shortcut to europe. it would be a political mistake and irresponsible to create the illusion of a quick and easy path to joining the european union and even full membership. there is no such shortcut, not even for ukraine. but cooperation has to be practiced, practiced. it is in europe's interest. it's in the best interests of the ukrainian people. mr president, the ukrainians want progress. they want to move on. i'm sure they don't want to have to choose between east and west. the most important thing for the ukrainian nation is that there be reforms, that the economy be brought back to life so that a better ukraine can be built. *the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to the blue card question. mr president, ukraine is choosing its own path. the history of ukraine and finland is different. there's no direct comparison. as far as finland is concerned, i can say that finland is in the fortunate position of having good cooperation with russia, but we are full members of the european union and we want to remain members and we can be members. it is not impossible to work with the east and the west. i hope that this will be achieved by all the european nations.
madam president, first of all i want to say as a finn that it is not a question of finlandisation, but actually finland can show that you can be close to the european union, even a member, and also have close relations with russia. but what i want to say is that the social peace in ukraine is very fragile and the eu needs to facilitate a very complex process and needs to understand ukraine better and have a comprehensive approach, a special strategy towards ukraine. secondly, the eu needs to understand that this is not, and it should not strive for, a geopolitical competition with russia over ukraine. here the finnish example may be a good one. any talk of a new cold war will echo the internal divisions in ukrainian society. geopolitical competition will only give legitimacy to the hardliners in moscow and limit liberties in russia even more. the eu needs to support multilateral diplomacy organisations such as the osce and its international contact group in kiev. ukraine should not be put into a position where it must choose between the eu and russia. a way, a concrete way, needs to be found; the way that trade relations with russia and the eu are not mutually exclusive.
in writing. the situation in ukraine now requires restraint and statecraft on the part of all parties. we are all baffled by the speed of the collapse of the corrupt yanukovych regime. the eu embraced ukraine's faltering economy, and russia took on the russian-speaking people in crimea and elsewhere. the most confused are the ukrainians themselves. what's next? i've been following the conversation about ukraine very closely. the concern and caution of many of my colleagues were part of the speech. others were filled with triumph, as if the "west" had once again defeated the "east" in a geopolitical chess game. that's a dangerous thought. because that's not what this is about. ukraine is a country that neither the west nor russia understands. the revolution was carried out by the churchwardens, carrying icons, by the combined forces of three rival orthodox churches and the uniates, loyal to rome. holiness and evil stamped on the same streets at the same time. although ukrainian youth stood and fell under the european flag, we still know very little about what it symbolized for them. russia is now looking for a new role. apparently, putin had already withdrawn his support from yanukovych, but hoped for a peaceful transition. it didn't come. the situation is particularly bad in crimea. we need to be smart about our politics. as mr swoboda has said, if putin reacts wrongly now, he risks losing not only the friendship of a few oligarchs but also the friendship of the entire ukrainian people. russia should not be humiliated and driven to violent, nationalistic reactions. we must not allow the situation in crimea to be resolved by force of arms. we'd be cleaning up that mess for decades. we, the european union, are a party, not an impartial mediator. it is time to turn to international organisations such as the un for help - rather too soon than too late.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, iraq is currently facing its most severe wave of violence since 2008. the deadly bomb attacks continue. several prison breaks have increased the number of fighters, and the civil war in syria is exacerbating the precarious situation even further. the danger is that the country will fall back into sectarian divisions and complete political paralysis of the state. the violence generates a fear of wider sectarian conflict across the whole region. the greens strongly condemn the recent acts of terrorism. we want to point out that, although the violence occurs along sectarian lines, its causes are political rather than religious. they need to be addressed through reforms and democratic modernisation of the state’s institutions. the dangerously low quality of governance in iraq also needs to be addressed by the eu. we also call on the eu to develop a common eu position in favour of the prohibition of the use of depleted uranium munitions and offer support for the treatment of their victims as well as for the victims of chemical weapons and possible efforts to decontaminate the areas affected.
mr president, mr minister, iraq is clearly slipping into an increasingly chaotic state, and this is largely due to the way the current government, led by mr al-maliki, is managing the country. human rights are trampled, the status of children and women is weak, and religious and ethnic conflicts tear the country apart. here there is a frequent reference to the persecution of christians by various groups. it's continuous, and right now, many christians are fleeing the country. the current leadership of iran, saudi arabia and the war in syria also have a significant reflection on iraqi politics. the continued growth of iranian influence in iraq should be of particular concern, as it is increasingly seeking to foment sunni-shia antagonism and has put pressure on iraq in its treatment of iranian opposition figures trapped in the inhumane conditions at camp liberty. in this context, it is irresponsible to supply arms to the current iraqi government under the guise of a war on terrorism. there's a civil war going on in the country, and minorities are being purged. at the beginning of the election, we rushed here to negotiate a trade agreement between iraq and the eu. i think it is more important at the moment to restore humane conditions to the country rather than go and promote trade for selfish reasons.
answer to the blue card question. mr president, i thank mr stevenson for his attention. i am aware of this situation and that is precisely why i have just underlined it. at the moment, the foreign powers supplying arms to the current iraqi regime under the guise of the so-called war on terrorism are being irresponsible. they're killing their own people in a country. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the use of armed drones has increased with technological progress. this is beyond dispute. today, many armies have the ability to use them for various military purposes. several parties have expressed concerns about the use of armed drones and the ethical and legal issues associated with them. but i don't think that the challenges posed by drones are fundamentally new or revolutionary. an armed drone is a weapon among others, and it is difficult to see how its strike differs in principle or morality from, say, a manned aircraft, as long as the decision is made by a human being. illegal acts of war are illegal, no matter what weapons are used. the principles and values on which decisions on the use of armed force are based will, of course, continue to be the subject of debate and analysis. but the change of weapon does not in itself change the form of the moral problem.
madam president, until now the market for armed drones has been growing fast and in an unregulated manner. millions in eu research funds have been spent already. there are plans by the commission and the member states to spend even more. before more taxpayers’ money is spent, however, we call on the council and the commission to develop, as a matter of urgency, a legal framework to regulate the use of drones. we need accountability and democratic oversight at member state level in relation to national programmes on drones, and we also need transparency and accountability on the part of the eu institutions. we cannot afford any kind of arms race on drones. we also stress the need to include armed drones in relevant european and international arms-control regimes and to stop research into, and the development of, fully automatic weapons which kill without human intervention.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this weekend in my home town it looked, felt and smelled like april. it's not dangerous. extreme weather, on the other hand, is dangerous. california is experiencing its worst water shortage in decades. britain has been hit by record rainfall and flooding, as my colleagues have described. many parts of the united states have experienced thunderstorms and blizzards. australia's been a record-breaking summer. the heat has even caused thousands of dead bats to fall from the sky onto gardens. no single weather event can be linked to climate change, but all of this is what is predicted to happen with increasingly widespread climate change, and increasingly extreme. the world meteorological organization declared the past decade to be one of extremes worldwide. not all governments have been given this, not even in europe. for the eu to do its part to limit climate change to below two degrees, our emissions reduction in 2030 should be at least 50%, not 40% as proposed by the commission. we've committed to reducing emissions by up to 95 percent by 2050. it will not succeed without binding renewable energy and energy efficiency targets, but they are still being contested. this month, the un secretary general, and also many military experts, have warned that climate change is a huge security threat. we need to see it as such and scale climate action accordingly. the victims of floods and other extremes need our solidarity, but the most important solidarity is action to mitigate climate change.
i voted in favour of this important report. the solvit network is a good tool, but unfortunately it is not used enough. solvit has not been a success story, and consumers and businesses have not been sufficiently familiar with the your europe portal. however, despite its poor reputation, solvit has often made significant decisions, which are in themselves success stories. the network has changed the rules governing the conduct of business in the member states so that companies operating in another member state can operate in the common internal market under the same conditions and requirements as local companies. the solvit network has also helped to resolve a number of discriminatory cases involving the health insurance of our citizens and to prevent double taxation of eu citizens' savings. solvit is an important tool for the functioning of the internal market and member states should raise awareness among citizens and businesses of its functioning.
in writing. - the european investigation order contributes to the creation of a common eu area of freedom, justice and security. the current system is very fragmented and, as the report states, it requires rapid reform. that is why i voted in favour of the motion. the european search warrant is a key instrument in this reform and mutual recognition in criminal matters should be a basic principle. the 2008 framework decision on the european evidence order is a good start to the process, but it is limited in that the disclosure of evidence only concerns evidence that already exists. as more and more cases are of a crossborder nature, we need to create a genuine european investigation order in the spirit of the stockholm programme. this system should be comprehensive and replace all existing instruments in the field, including the 2008 framework programme. it should cover all types of evidence, include time limits and limit grounds for refusal as far as possible. i therefore support the european investigation order as a mechanism to replace all the previous ones and therefore voted in favour of the report.
mr president, the application of forest law to forest management between the european union and indonesia is a very important tool because indonesia is the most important rainforest area and currently has the highest pressures and forest damage, due to, among other things, palm oil production, which seriously threatens biodiversity. this is a ground-breaking agreement and a method by which the european union can guarantee that all timber entering its territory is produced from sustainably managed forests. hopefully this practice will have the potential to spread to other indonesian timber trade relationships.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the voluntary agreement, as it improves transparency and promotes sustainable forest management worldwide. the aim of the agreement is to establish a legal framework to ensure the traceability of timber products, a mechanism to ensure the legality of timber products, the proper management of indonesian forests and compliance with the eu flegt action plan. the agreement is significant both economically and environmentally, as indonesia has the third largest rainforest in the world.
i am particularly pleased, mr president, with the current developments in ukraine, where the people have the opportunity to decide their own destiny in a democratic and open way. while the eu supports these positive developments, it is worth bearing in mind that the challenges will be with us for a very long time to come. firstly, the economic situation, which is almost catastrophic, and the very heavy indebtedness of russia will affect the situation in ukraine for a long time. secondly, as we have seen in north africa, for example, progress and stability in the development of democracy are by no means self-evident. the opposition has also joined and has included a very large number of different extremist elements representing values that do not belong to democracy or to the european tradition of values. we must therefore support developments which stabilise and strengthen democracy and combat extremism.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. the situation in ukraine now requires restraint and statesmanship on all sides. the passion and love of freedom of the ukrainian people must be respected, but russia must not be humiliated. we are all puzzled by the speed of the collapse of the corrupt yanukovych regime. the bankrupt economy of ukraine must not be thrown into the eu's embrace either. russia has been able to get the panicked russian-speaking people in crimea and elsewhere to back down. perhaps the most confused are the ukrainians themselves. ukraine is a country that neither the west nor russia understands. although ukrainian youth stood and fell under the european flag, we know very little about what it symbolized for them. russia is now looking for a new role. the situation is particularly bad in crimea. we need a sense of government, and i'm sure vladimir vladimirovich has it. russia must not be humiliated or driven to violent nationalist reactions. we're both parties to the dispute. i think it is better to ask for un help too soon than too late.
in writing. in ukraine, the price of freedom has been too high. it is important not to lose what has been achieved and not to replace one government that is as bad as the other. when there's a rush, a rush, there's a tendency to make unfortunate moves. it is good that mr timoshenko has been released, but this should not lead to automatic conclusions. and i'm afraid we're playing the old cold war game. we should not go to that level in the eu. the situation on the crimean peninsula is very worrying and the withdrawal of the military is a bad decision on all sides. the extremist movements always benefit from democratic protests, and it is important that we in the eu support the new democratic civil society in ukraine. democratic elections are an urgent priority. i hope that we will keep a close eye on the new ukrainian administration, but it is important that the development of democracy in ukraine really responds to the wishes of the grassroots. the eu must help reform the system and we can offer our experience and financial and technical support. we should also ensure that sanctions really work. our motion for a resolution reflects these ideas and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. the situation in iraq is very serious. internal disputes, and particularly religious-motivated fighting, have increased, and i have been concerned about the situation for a very long time. in january 2014, a total of 733 iraqis were killed and 1 229 were injured as a result of terrorism and violence. the figures don't even include the number of people killed or wounded in the ongoing fighting in the anbar province. the humanitarian crisis in fallujah is very worrying. the city is under siege and suffering daily bombings and the basic needs of the people are denied. over 300,000 people have lost their homes. the resolution strongly condemns all forms of violence. we call for the protection of all religious communities and the bringing of criminals to justice. i hope that the leaders of iraq at all levels will engage in a genuine national dialogue to bring an end to this conflict, which has lasted for far too long and is constantly changing its character. so i voted for the resolution.
mr president, fundamental rights and human rights are at the heart of the values and the treaties of the european union. it is therefore essential that we have better tools to monitor and defend the fundamental rights of citizens together. it is high time that the equality directive was finally adopted by the council, as stated in the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2012. it is also high time that the copenhagen committee was set up. we need a supreme body to monitor fundamental rights. we also need to take a better approach to monitoring the development of fundamental rights in the member states in a targeted manner through annual reporting on various human rights, such as violence against the elderly or women. we also need freedom of religion and of disbelief. the accessibility regulation is currently pending before the commission, and it is particularly important to highlight and monitor the rights of disabled people in the different member states.
in writing. - i find this report particularly interesting, because i am also a candidate for mep of the year in the fundamental rights category. i support the view of my group that the recommendations are in some cases quite far from reality and that there is a risk that they will work against themselves. the mechanisms recommended are unrealistic and involve actions that go beyond parliament's powers and violate subsidiarity. so we've come up with an alternative presentation, which i think is more balanced.
in writing. - since the creation of the european arrest warrant in 2004, three reports on its implementation have been published. the detention order is generally considered a success, especially in combating delays. the reports have, however, pointed out a number of shortcomings, which our resolution also highlights. these include, inter alia, procedural deficiencies, poor prison conditions and, for example, the excessive use of the european arrest warrant in some member states. it is particularly important that we ensure the realisation of fundamental rights when creating european frameworks. it is good that we as a parliament have the right to ask the commission to intervene in the situation. the problems are not exclusive to this aspect of mutual recognition. i therefore voted for a more democratic and fairer union.
in writing. - in recent weeks, anti-government protests have seen shocking levels of violence that have now spread almost uncontrollably. i'd like to express my condolences to the families of those who were killed. it should be remembered that the protests started by students and are due to the inflation in the country, the increase in crime and the end of trade in some consumer products. we need to resolve these issues as soon as possible. our resolution calls for the exercise of freedom of expression and assembly and calls on all parties to renounce violence. we also stress the role of regional actors in resolving the crisis. i voted in favour of the motion and i hope that the country will soon get back on its feet and thus also make the necessary reforms so that we can count venezuela among the democratic countries in the future.
in writing. - private copying fees are levied in 28 of the 23 member states, making it the most common way of charging authors for the use of their works in countries where private copying is allowed. the commission estimates that the total amount of private copying fees is over 600 million, which is also a significant amount for music authors. this excellent report is intended to address issues of copying fees and also to discuss possible alternatives to private copying. the report by mr castex largely follows the line of the ppe, mr vitorino's recommendations are good and private copying fees are defended to ensure fair compensation for rights holders. while the fees for private copying are justified, it is our view that copyright law should be responsive to the digital age. i also spoke about this in the plenary last week when my own report on collective management was voted. i stressed that although the commission had held a consultation on copyright matters, the package that had been worked on for many years should no longer be torn open in the area of collective management. i therefore voted in favour of this balanced report.
mr[nbsp ]president, the financial crisis has shown the need to improve financial stability and to protect insurance beneficiaries much more effectively. this proposal is a major step in the right direction. it seeks to put in place risk-based assessment in insurance, higher levels of basic capital and a coherent pan-european surveillance system. without these things, we really cannot safeguard the position of european insurance beneficiaries. what will still need to be addressed in the future are the long-term risks on investments. to take, for example, investments in fossil fuels, i would say that if our insurance or pension funds are too heavily invested in fossil fuels and in environmentally-risky businesses, that represents an investment risk and also a future risk for the beneficiaries of the schemes. we need fresh legislation to provide for taking environmental risks and resource-efficiency risks into account.
mr president, we have fought this money laundering directive for a long time and very hard. it is not because finland is a particularly risky country, nor is it because we have russia as a neighbour, although russia is certainly known to be the source of quite a number of money laundering problems. we have fought with this directive, in fact, simply because it has sometimes been difficult to get colleagues to understand what the risk-based approach, or the proportionality of measures, actually means. we have a rather unusual situation in finland. in finland, a significant part of gambling is carried on by so-called one-armed bandits. it means that finnish pensioners stand in a shop and put one euro coins into the machine and pull the handle and sometimes get money out of it. anyone who thinks that we can launder large sums of money in this way has, of course, completely misunderstood the assessment of this risk. if you insist that everyone should have the same rules, the same socks, you're going to go wrong again. a significant part of finnish social security is financed by this one-armed bandit. we therefore strongly believe that everyone should understand the importance of proportionality in this matter.
mr president, money laundering is a huge problem in the european union. that is why i have supported and will continue to support all effective means of eradicating it. i am afraid, however, that if the money laundering directive is implemented in a bad way, it would also cause much unnecessary damage to legitimate activities in the public interest. the wording should therefore be such as to ensure that this does not happen. if a member state had to apply for a derogation from the commission for each slot machine, even though the member state had already established that the risks involved in the games were minimal with regard to money laundering, the directive would unduly affect the finnish slot machine system. i would also remind you that in finland, slot machines are owned by a state-owned company and the proceeds are used for public benefit activities. the money laundering machines are virtually unusable. i am therefore in favour of the directive in general terms.
madam president, the finnish gambling monopoly, raha-automaattiyhdistys, increasingly funds social care and development in the social field. this is its exclusive field of activity. an increasing number of ngos are having to apply for these funds, as municipalities are saving their resources. the risk of money laundering is negligible. i therefore voted for member states’ exemptions and also support the approval by the commission of exemptions so as not to open the gap too wide. one precondition for this is that not every slot machine has to be approved by the commission, as is being discussed by many in finland today.
mr president, it is important that the inspection procedures for motor vehicles be harmonised. it is a good thing if it can increase safety where it can clearly be increased. but when legislation is made in vain or when it does not take account of the specific circumstances of a member state, we have to think twice. in this inspection directive, we had a school example. the commission wanted, and finally this parliament after a lot of lobbying, that testing of all motorcycles should be made compulsory, absolutely compulsory. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of motorcycles is not compromised. after long and difficult negotiations, reason finally won in parliament. in future, the testing of motorcycles will depend mainly on the member state's own accident statistics and the causes of accidents. that's good.
in writing. i have just voted in favour of this important report. the fight against corruption has been mentioned on several occasions in the context of public procurement. the extensive use of various electronic systems from the very beginning of the procurement process facilitates documentation and thus also reduces the potential for misuse. finland has been a pioneer in electronic invoicing. electronic invoicing has been found to bring cost savings, reduce administrative burden and speed up the invoicing process. it also reduces the possibility of errors in accounting and speeds up the archiving process. it also facilitates the auditability of the procurement process. despite these undoubted advantages, however, the share of electronic invoicing in the eu is currently only between 4 and 15%. that is why i am very much in favour of promoting electronic invoicing throughout europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is important in principle. the prohibition of torture is a universal prohibition and is absolutely absolute under international law. yet, torture still exists in the world. torture seriously affects millions of people and their families and cannot be justified under any circumstances. it is therefore important that the elimination of 'torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment' be at the heart of the european union's human rights policy. the breakdown of the absolute prohibition of torture in many fragile countries and the use of torture as a means of interrogation are hindering the transformation of society and the overcoming of societal pain points. support should also be given to rehabilitation activities for victims of torture, which are the primary practical means of helping victims of torture and their families with the physical and psychological problems they suffer. i hope that the commission and the european external action service will take the proposals in this report seriously.
in writing. i voted in favour of this important report. the negotiations the eu-gcc free trade agreement was launched 20 years ago and has not yet been finalised. the eu and saudi arabia are interdependent, particularly in geopolitical matters, but also in economic and investment matters. imports of goods from saudi arabia to the eu and exports of goods from the eu to saudi arabia have increased significantly in recent years. the eu is saudi arabia's main trading partner, accounting for 15% of all trade. it is time for a leap forward in eu-saudi relations. many eu companies are already investing in the country's oil industry. saudi arabia is a major export market for eu industrial products in the defence, transport, automotive, medical and chemical sectors. the potential for deeper cooperation should not be overlooked. since the eu is not just a trade union, it is also necessary to find a channel for discussion on value policy issues. saudi arabia is one of the worst countries in the world for women's economic participation - women's participation in the workforce is low. women are also not allowed to drive in saudi arabia. the european union must take account of gender inequalities in its closer cooperation with saudi arabia. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the death penalty, and to extend it to the use of the death penalty in criminal proceedings.
i have already expressed my views on strengthening the information security of eu citizens and i still believe it is important that we take this forward. data security concerns all of us and misuse should not be condoned. there's been a lot of talk about the nsa surveillance program in the united states over the last six months. the eu must remain firm in protecting the personal data of its citizens from being spied on. the fight against terrorism, while undoubtedly important, must not justify the united states in carrying out secret and illegal surveillance programmes. we must develop the necessary means within europe to ensure information security. these include the continuous development of cloud services and it solutions. i fully support the trade agreement, but i believe that data protection issues must be kept separate from the eu-us trade negotiations. they must be negotiated separately with the united states and i hope that the question of improving data security will not complicate the negotiations. there has already been a good debate on this subject and i hope that we will soon reach a common position.
mr president, we have heard today that the gezi protests have claimed yet another victim, 15-year-old berkin elvan, who died after 269 days in a coma. during the gezi protests, a boy who went to buy bread was hit by a tear gas canister. the commission's progress report is from 2013 and the gezi protests are only part of the year's events, but we members of parliament want to show by our resolution that innocent victims have not been forgotten. another worrying news is that prime minister erdoğan has made statements that he would break his earlier promise that he would not seek a fourth term as prime minister. the akp has a three-month deadline, but according to erdoğan, he may not stick to it. i've written before about the corruption of power and the so-called ten-year sickness, power can make a man sick. it's time for erdogan to go. this will also be beneficial for turkey's eu accession negotiations.
for the verts/ale group mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bas eickhout, on his very good work. the f-gas regulation is an example of where ambitious eu legislation can affect an industry worldwide, in this case the refrigeration sector. the decision is very important for climate protection, as many of the f-gases are very potent greenhouse gases and remain in the atmosphere for a very long time. in this case, the companies that look to the future and the past have lobbied in opposite directions. the legislator's role is to defend the future, to create a market for existing and functioning solutions that are better for climate protection and the future and that are in demand all over the world, including outside europe. this is a genuine defence of the eu's competitiveness. recently, researchers at the university of east anglia have detected new ozone-depleting gases in the atmosphere. it is important to take this observation seriously and to find out where it comes from and take the necessary action.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament is adopting important legislation this week to complement the toolbox of legislation to mitigate climate change. the legislation now being adopted aims to reduce the production of fluorinated greenhouse gases by phasing them out and promoting their replacement by alternative substances. sustainable alternatives are already on the market and in use. these sustainable alternatives can replace almost all new hfc-based equipment now and in the near future. unfortunately, in the course of the negotiations with the council, a number of exceptions were added to the legislation. the montreal protocol, signed to protect the ozone layer, effectively curbed the use of ozone-depleting substances. to replace these, so-called fluorinated greenhouse gases were used, particularly in refrigeration and air-conditioning systems. while all other greenhouse gases have decreased, emissions of fluorine have increased by 60 percent since 1990. these gases have a very high atmospheric warming effect relative to other greenhouse gases: f-gases are hundreds or even tens of thousands of times more potent than carbon dioxide. in addition, f-gases can persist in the atmosphere for thousands of years. legislative action in this area is necessary.
mr president, talking about jobs, european business leaders have estimated that, with binding renewable energy targets, 570[nbsp ]000 jobs will be created by 2030. can we say ‘no’ to these jobs when 20 million people are unemployed? president barroso or commissioner rehn, we hope to have binding targets for renewable energy for 2030 in order to get these jobs.
mr president, mr kerry has proposed that there be direct talks between russia and ukraine. this seems to be impossible, as russia is saying that the government is illegal and there has been a coup d’état. therefore, i think multinational frameworks are the only possibility. our osce would be the best solution. taking the trouble of going to crimea is, i think, important, and the eu should exert very great pressure so that the osce delegation can actually travel to crimea and multinational negotiations within this framework can take place.
in writing. - some existing foods already contain additives in the form of nanoparticles, such as titanium dioxide used as a colour in sweets and coffee drinks or silicon dioxide used as an anti-caking agent. nevertheless, the wider use of nanomaterials in food is still relatively new. the scientific community and even the authorities do not yet have sufficient knowledge about the effects of nanomaterials on human health, for example. the only consensus seems to be that a very large proportion of nanomaterials are of low or no harm, but also clearly harmful nanomaterials are included, as normally harmless substances can become hazardous at the nanoscale. for this reason too, consumers are not sufficiently informed about the impact of nanotechnology on their health and the benefits or harms of using this technology. one of the key objectives of eu consumer policy is to promote the ability of citizens to make informed choices. the commission proposal does not support this line. that is why i supported the motion for a resolution. we need to give consumers the opportunity to make informed choices. they have the right to decide for themselves whether they want to buy and eat food containing nanomaterials.
mr president, with each enlargement of the eu, our union has gained new neighbours. the security, stability and prosperity of these countries also affect the security, stability and prosperity of the eu. the european union has lacked a clear vision of how it will deal with its eastern neighbours. the development of relations between the eu and russia has also been marred by errors. the future of eastern europe cannot be decided by the eu alone. we need to find a way to communicate with russia. we need more ambitious visions and to translate them into concrete strategies. the relationship between the eu and each partner must be unique and individual. it is not just a question of political commitments and trade. the union must also focus on young people in the region and their involvement in the european project.
mr president, the world has been gripped by a spying frenzy. anyone can be taken down at the touch of a button for more specific reasons. because of the nature of their work, spies often live in their own delusional world without even realizing it. europe must have its own in-depth debate on what is relevant and appropriate in relation to allies. parliament should remember and reward the defenders of democracy like the guardian. it's time for a little disciplinary action. the heads of the intelligence services must be dragged regularly to parliamentary committees. we need to listen to them, but they also need to listen to us. what does the world outside their bubble look like? european democracy has enough external enemies these days. and we don't need enemies within, delusional intelligence chiefs.
in writing. i would like to thank mr salavrakossa for this successful report. the european parliament is the only direct representative of the european people at union level. the spring european elections will therefore be - once again - an important demonstration of the will of the eu citizens. although the treaty of lisbon strengthened eu citizenship, the union must move closer to its citizens. i am particularly concerned about the rights of persons belonging to minorities. discrimination against the roma minority is widespread throughout our union. the romani are still isolated from society. the free movement of persons is also a key issue. it will help to reduce the problem of mismatches between jobs and skills in the internal market. the commission, in cooperation with the member states, should seek to improve the rights of trainees. in particular, fair pay and access to training and employment in another member state should be promoted. the eu's policy should also be taught more in the school curricula. teachers are in a prominent position in this. the only way to raise awareness among eu citizens is through information and education. finally, i would like to remind you that every eu citizen must have the right to contact the union's institutions and to be informed about eu decisions in his or her own language.
in writing. - i have recently been particularly interested in the european union's judicial cooperation. not least because the commission's corruption report showed that we could do much more to tackle corruption - especially in cases where the union's financial interests are threatened. the idea of establishing a european public prosecutor's office as part of a deeper area of freedom, security and justice is a good one and would bring about the following improvements: more effective protection of the eu's financial interests, increased confidence of businesses and citizens, more efficient and effective investigations and prosecutions and the implementation of fundamental rights. more and more crimes are of a cross-border nature and must also be addressed through cross-border mechanisms. however, these mechanisms must have real added value and their scope and powers must be clearly defined - also to ensure that eurojust, olaf and the future prosecutor's office do not duplicate or compete. it is very understandable that 14 national parliaments have shown a 'yellow card' on this matter. this must be taken into account, since the commission proposal is binding on a quarter of the parliaments of the member states in criminal matters. i do not think it is impossible for certain member states to start closer cooperation earlier, but it is certainly desirable for the development of the area of freedom, security and justice that all member states eventually participate in the prosecutor's office. the european parliament and the council are to be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. it is a nut to be picked by the commission, but i am sure that this will be achieved in the end, which is why i am voting in favour.
mr president, the european union and turkey are interdependent, strategic partners. both turkey and the eu benefit from turkey's convergence towards european values. eu enlargement is a long process and a commitment to broad national reforms. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the directive. eu citizens can only benefit from a more european turkey. i welcome the commission's proposal to open negotiations on new negotiating chapters. the accession of turkish researchers, students and members of civil society to the european union must be facilitated. border control is still a stumbling block for turkey. the turkish-greek border is a big problem. turkey also has a role to play in peace in the balkans and the middle east. turkey must also find a political solution to its kurdish problem.
in writing. - the events of the last few days and the death of mr elvan berk are a regrettable reminder that turkey has made some missteps on its path to the european union. i welcome the steps taken on the readmission agreement and visa-free travel, especially for businessmen, researchers, students and civil society representatives, but i am very concerned about the implementation of internal democracy in turkey. the corruption scandal and the forced exchanges of officials, the violence against protesters, the confusion of terrorism planning and freedom of expression in the legal system, the new legislative proposals on the internet and the council of judges and prosecutors, the ergenekon, sledgehammer and kck trials... the list goes on. i would like to see turkey on the road to the european union, but the country's leadership is now preventing its citizens from having that opportunity. that's why i voted for our tough line.
mr president, parliament has called for the implementation of the eu strategy for the arctic. it hasn't been found. the arctic race has already begun! the eu is already on the trail. the arctic issue has also become linked to the eu-russia relationship. where is the northern dimension launched at the initiative of finland? the eu's activities in the arctic are primarily related to combating climate change, researching the region's environment and monitoring changes. the financial support alone is not enough without a sustainable strategic vision for the exploitation of the site. the eu should also invest in maritime transport and maritime security in the region in the future. the three arctic countries, finland, sweden and denmark, cannot act alone. the arctic can't wait any longer! the arctic is calling! is the eu responding to the call, or are we really missing the train that has already left for the north pole?
in writing. - it is clear that the eu needs a concrete action plan for the arctic region, not least because three of the eu member states, denmark, sweden and finland, are arctic countries. a coherent strategy should cover the sustainable use of natural resources, understanding the needs of local people, arctic shipping and the effects of climate change. we must exercise special discretion when making decisions about the arctic. the aim is above all to protect the area's fragile environment, which must be taken into account when exploiting natural resources. in offshore oil and gas drilling, the responsibility for any environmental damage must be borne by the companies. the people of the arctic must also be taken into account - they must not suffer any disadvantages from the exploitation of natural resources. as regards shipping in the arctic, the links must not be closed to international traffic and the arctic must have good economic links with the rest of europe. i also think it is particularly important to set up an arctic information centre, and what better location than rovaniemi in finland for that. the commission must continue its preparations to ensure that the establishment of the centre does not remain a mere idea. the information centre would contribute to the knowledge and dissemination of information on the arctic regions. research in the arctic must also be developed and we must ensure that adequate resources are available for it. our involvement in the arctic region must continue to grow. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this has been a most interesting file. i thank the rapporteurs and the shadows for a most interesting intellectual journey through the crisis programme countries. i think we have one main problem. we do not understand the structure of the crisis, and i think we actually have four layers of crisis in front of us. first, we have a tendency to take on more loans than we are able to bear. we hope to return to the golden era of capitalism, which ended in 1973. it will not come back. this leads us to seek a culprit. in the case of portugal, the culprits are the socialists; in ireland the liberals; in cyprus a communist-elected president; and in greece, both the conservatives and the social democrats. so nobody has a clean record. the second layer is the ongoing financial crisis. we have seen it since, let us say, black monday 1987, and it is still going on all over the world and hitting those who are not well prepared. thirdly, we have a globalisation crisis hitting those sectors which are very low in the value chain. for instance, during the pre-crisis era, both portugal and greece lost 50[nbsp ]% of their textile exports due to globalisation. then we have, as the fourth layer, the rigidities of the euro, but we should probably remember that we actually wanted to have these, because in the 1970s we devalued against each other, which was not good policy. but we should also see that we had different layers of what is called the constitutionalisation of eu law. in fighting the crisis, the economy was actually in the driving seat. that has led to serious shortcomings in other fields, mainly health care. we stress-tested the banks but we did not stress-test the health system, the pension system or any other deeply necessary eu system. so we have a great deal of work ahead of us.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the weak economic situation in europe, the growth of public sector debt and the growing social problems in the crisis countries are proof of the mistakes made by the troika. the report on the troika's activities, which will be voted on tomorrow, is in some respects correct in its criticism, but on the other hand it has ignored certain points which i think should be emphasized more strongly. the temporary nature of the troika and its rapidly evolving structure have left no legal basis for its establishment in union law and, in general, its mandate has been unclear. the report should also specify the temporary nature of the troika, because in my view, temporary means that a certain end date has been set for the action. or is it, in fact, that the threesome is a permanent arrangement? the troika has held ireland up as an example of successful action. ireland has certainly done better than the other countries that have been affected by the troika because it had a better starting point when it came to programming. however, if we compare the success of ireland with, say, iceland, which experienced a very similar banking crisis, but did not fall into the hands of the troika, but rather handled its crisis with very different doctrines, the example of the troika's success is also placed in the right context. iceland is doing better now by any metric. the creation of the troika was part of a series of errors in the aid packages and stability mechanisms which were suppressed during the last electoral period. the future parliament must work to undo these mistakes.
mr president, commissioner, the troika's demands for economic discipline and austerity have been severely criticised, particularly in the problem countries, but also on the left of this house. the european union has been accused of everything, from adjustment policies to structural reforms, of creating poverty and misery. as if the past reckless indebtedness and bad economic policies of these countries had nothing to do with the present situation. although i myself object to the need for any outside agency to tell the country what to do, it is clear that without intervention the economies of these countries would have collapsed completely. however, these adjustment programmes are not only designed to calm down the financial markets, but also to change the economic direction of these crisis countries. it is easy to forget that the taxpayers of the nordic countries are also interested in what is being done with their money and support. of course, there must have been an error of assessment and there must have been problems with the timing of the measures. the sharp cuts in public spending, including social benefits, in the face of delayed structural reforms led to a rapid weakening of domestic consumption demand. small businesses, already struggling with a lack of funding, were driven into difficulties and bankruptcy, investment declined and economic activity collapsed. the recovery has been slow because the effects of the disappearance of smes are long-lasting. this has been the biggest mistake in the problems of the troika. the troika's work has shown that adjustment programmes, which were hastily suppressed in the crisis, would require better impact assessment and, above all, a plan for economic recovery.
in writing. the suppression of the greek crisis has been largely a suppression and oppression of the weakest in the country, led by the much-talked-about troika. according to the respected medical journal the lancet, the targeting of greece's most vulnerable has been a disaster. suicides and hiv infections have increased. child mortality has risen, and malaria, once defeated, has returned. this can't be a sustainable path. british researchers in the lancet cite finland as a good example. even during the recession of the 1990s, at least social security was defended and cut elsewhere. maybe so, but the recession has left its mark on us, too. many young people have inherited the scars of the great depression. but that is precisely why we now know how to warn southern europe. humiliating the poor is not the answer. neither are the support packages. "you don't teach a man to fish by giving him a fish in his hand", says a greek proverb. at least there's some light. last year greece's current account turned into a surplus for the first time since 1948. however, unemployment is still at 27 percent and is feared to rise.
mr president, mr minister, the composition of the un human rights council has unfortunately been so distorted that similar human rights violations in many countries are treated and punished differently. as many colleagues have said here, the council countries themselves have often been guilty of serious human rights violations. this has inevitably reduced the authority of the human rights council and its ability to act on human rights issues. the report by parliament highlights human rights and civil liberties, with particular emphasis on the rights of women and children, and also on the status of religious minorities. the countries that are guilty of human rights violations could be divided into totalitarian countries, such as north korea, and so-called disintegrating states, such as syria, the central african republic, iraq, sudan, nigeria and many others, and a third group of undemocratically governed countries, where, for example, a strong ruler is afraid of power and apparent stability. in many of these countries, ethnic and religious groups are fighting. the worrying aspect of religious freedom is that a terror zone has been created in sub-saharan africa by extremist islamic groups, which has caused enormous suffering in many countries in the region. while there is no single, universally applicable system of the relationship between religion and society, it is essential that all citizens enjoy full freedom of thought, conscience and religion, both in public and in private life. the eu must protect this fundamental right on its own territory and also take care of it in the world.
mr president, it is very good that parliament has taken a clear position on the troika's activities. we need broader parliamentary support for such procedures. we also need broader and clearer guidelines for the future. i think it has been very backward and unrealistic to blame the actions of the european central bank, the international monetary fund or the troika for bailing out the crisis states at the moment. if they didn't act, who would? it is also completely unreasonable to blame the troika and its actions for the impoverishment of the member states or for the distortion of their own social security, when tax collection has not been taken care of or when savings measures have been targeted in such a way as to target the most deprived. it has been entirely up to the member state to choose what kind of decisions it takes in this respect. the troika has simply ensured that the debt is disciplined, because it will not be.
in writing. the debate about the troika and its effectiveness has been heated for some time. as we all know, the troika helped to prevent the worst-case scenario from happening in a country struggling with four of the worst economic problems, but there was still room for improvement. the weaknesses in the structure and methods of the troika really weakened the role of the countries themselves and affected the transparency and accountability of their activities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. we should pay particular attention to the employment of citizens from countries in economic difficulties, also in the longer term. youth unemployment, unemployment-related migration, the disappearance of small businesses and the increase in poverty, including among the middle class, are worrying problems that must now be addressed. the solution to the problem of job creation would be to introduce recovery plans aimed in particular at creating favourable conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. perhaps the troika and the reforms were therefore acted on too hastily, without giving proper thought to the areas of wrongdoing which really mattered and which the troika was able to influence properly. we now need to clarify our objectives and improve the division of labour and communication between the various institutions. so there's still a lot to be cut, and we can only learn from our mistakes.
mr president, it was very good that two separate reports were drawn up on the activities of the troika and the impact of the economic crisis as a whole on the member states, the second of which deals specifically with the social impact and the welfare of the people. i think that both practical experience and this report show very well that the european union needs better and more effective tools than at present to deal with the welfare, equality and non-discrimination of people, including how we guarantee them social rights, basic legal protection and basic legal services. without instruments like this, we can force every member state to act sensibly in the midst of economic crises and in all other situations, so that the most needy and the most vulnerable are taken care of, without this instrument also guiding the basic principles and actions of actors like the troika. we cannot fully respond to our core values, the well-being of the citizens, democracy and also fundamental rights, and this in this report, which i voted for, technically i voted against, but i have corrected it in the voting statistics, is in my view balanced.
mr president, there have been too many actors in the ukrainian crisis. the eu should have made its own message clear without involving nato. the very mention of nato will only instill fear in russia. russia is a prisoner of its own propaganda, but we still need to listen to it. we should at least have understood the code used by russia and given it the opportunity to save face when it reiterated the importance of the agreement of 21 february. russia is still clinging to yanukovych's position as the legitimate president. it is unlikely to yield to any other solution than to allow yanukovych to play the role of president for a moment and sign his resignation after other matters have been settled. russia has acted dangerously and irresponsibly, that's clear, but humiliating it will not lead to a lasting outcome. it's not wise, and it's not appropriate.
mr president, the eu must speak with one voice against human rights violations, this is the best way to achieve results. we're more than that. as a union of values, the european union is committed to speaking and acting in favour of human rights and democracy both at home and beyond our borders. respect for, promotion of and protection of the universality of human rights are cornerstones of european unity and cohesion. by increasing its coherence on human rights, the eu is increasing its own credibility. the foreign affairs council should also appreciate the guidance given to it by the european parliament. parliament is the only direct channel of democracy in the eu. the resolution, in my view, successfully reinforces the priorities set by the foreign affairs council for the un general assembly.
the author. - mr. president, it is sad that alongside the crisis in ukraine, the russian state is also violating the rights of its own citizens. we have also heard this week how russian journalists have resigned in protest against the tightening of censorship. in the light of the resolution under consideration, the crimeans are in for anything but paradise if the illegal territorial union goes ahead. what is not right cannot be law. new laws that stifle civil liberties, arbitrary arrests and sentences of protesters and oppression of minorities should no longer be a reality in the old european civilized country of russia. the sentencing of demonstrators in bolotnaya square is politically motivated and violates the rule of law. the charges should be dropped and the convictions overturned. it is important, however, that russia be listened to and understood from its own standpoint. however, europeanism is based on inviolable values to which russia has also committed itself by treaty. it is time to show that laws and treaties are a stronger force than tanks and infantry. russia, which shares with the rest of europe the ancient greek civilization and christian tradition, should remember its commitment as a member of the council of europe and a european civilized state. it is not a matter of indifference what kind of eastern policy europe pursues. the eu must find a better dialogue with russia. too often, the decision makers talk past each other. because we don't know ourselves deeply enough, we also don't have the courage to overcome our fear of each other. the european external action service and all member states must continue to work with russian civil society. russia must also be supported and encouraged to respect the dignity and pluralism of all people. russia is part of europe, and there is no europe without russia.
mr president, our resolution is originally about 650 protesters who were arrested in may 2012, the day before president putin was sworn in. finally, 28 were charged with criminal offences and seven were sentenced to prison terms of 2.5 to 4 years. the only female defendant who has been kept under house arrest was sentenced to a suspended prison sentence. the council of europe's rapporteurs have said that the sentences imposed on the accused are disproportionate. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. freedom of assembly is one of the cornerstones of a democratic society and these disproportionately long sentences send a worrying message about the human rights situation in russia. the eu is also calling on the russian authorities to take all necessary steps to ensure that the russian authorities are able to comply with the international human rights obligations.
the author. - mr president, with this resolution we are upholding the universal principle that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. no one should have to live in fear because of their sexual orientation. yet, homosexuality is still a crime in 76 countries, and in five countries it is punishable by death. the long prison sentences in uganda and nigeria are incomprehensible. they violate human rights and violate human dignity. they also violate the cotonou agreement, which provides the union with a framework for cooperation in the economic, social and cultural development of the african, caribbean and pacific states. parliament called on the commission to take action to launch political consultations in the spirit of the cotonou agreement. the example of individual countries such as sweden, denmark and the netherlands, which have diverted development aid from the ugandan and nigerian authorities directly to ngos, is also a welcome innovation. we cannot punish society as a whole by cutting off all aid, but by redirecting it. it is important that the eu has developed guidelines and tools to promote and protect all human rights of lgbti persons. now we must do what we promised. the ugandan and nigerian authorities should be encouraged to decriminalize homosexuality. the law poses a serious threat to lgbt people, both nigerians and foreigners, of violence and arrest. the privacy and equality of every human being is an indisputable part of the fundamental rights of human beings. no state has the right to withdraw from its international obligations.
mr president, an important principle of development cooperation is being tested. what do you do when the majority in a recipient country supports a wrong policy that violates human rights? the international community has not been silent. sweden, norway, denmark and the netherlands have announced that they will freeze or cut development aid to uganda. some of us are demanding the same from the whole eu. but it is a double-edged sword. one good way to help has been to support local human rights organizations. their work is made more difficult now that defending the human rights of sexual minorities can lead to imprisonment. in future cooperation between the eu and third countries, it will be necessary to bear in mind that all countries have a duty, recognised in human rights treaties, to prevent violence and discrimination against their citizens on the grounds of their identity.
the author. - mr president, human rights watch published a major report in february 2014 on human trafficking in sudan and egypt, particularly in the sinai region. the report says that many eritreans are victims of human trafficking and torture. hundreds of eritrean refugees have been imprisoned in torture camps in sinai over the past ten years, where they are tortured for weeks or even months. those torture victims who survive suffer lifelong psychological or physical trauma as a result of torture, physical and sexual violence. torturers demand ransom from victims or their relatives before the torture ends. sometimes, after the ransom is paid, the torturers may sell the victim to another group instead of releasing him, thus continuing the cycle of terror. it is very important that we appeal once again to the egyptian authorities to take measures to eradicate human trafficking from the sinai and also to bring the perpetrators to justice.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the security situation in the sinai peninsula has clearly deteriorated further. reports of harsh treatment, even torture, of victims of human trafficking are shocking and reprehensible. human trafficking is very lucrative in that area. human dignity and humanity have no meaning to organized crime. the most effective way of helping people in the region of origin is to prevent the deterioration of society and, in particular, to prevent the causes of war and violence. helping is much more difficult now that the flood of refugees is already knocking on europe's gates. fortunately, there is also civilization in sinai. for 1,500 years, st. catherine's monastery has been a center of philanthropy, of humanitarian love between christians and muslim bedouins. there is a lesson for us europeans.
mr president, i have been following with concern the security situation in the sinai, which has deteriorated as a result of the egyptian revolution and the horn of africa and sahel crises. regular terrorist attacks, which have not been heard of in egypt for years, have returned to the country's top security threats. the terrorist network has also managed to spread to a wider area and the development threatens the energy security of the entire arab world, as gas pipelines have also been attacked. the second concern is the smuggling, trafficking and widespread organised crime in the area by local nomadic groups. the smuggling of arms into gaza in some cases alleviates the humanitarian crisis faced by gazans, as it allows access to certain products in the besieged strip of land, but it also increases the number of weapons and thus endangers the middle east peace process. the most tragic, surely, is the trafficking and inhuman treatment of refugees from other african countries. forced labor, torture camps, and rape are now part of the lives of refugees. some even claim that egyptian security forces are cooperating with the kidnappers. although this is primarily a phenomenon of socioeconomic alienation of the bedouin population, the israeli and egyptian authorities are also responsible for their part. the recent israeli asylum legislation should be changed and egypt should also focus on its humanitarian obligations amidst all the turmoil and allow un agencies access to sinai.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, members of the court of auditors and representatives of the council, the importance of the european union's decentralised agencies for the citizens of the member states is much greater than is generally believed. the agencies collect and analyse information for citizens and decision-making in dozens of different areas. many of you have heard of the european food safety authority, the agency for medicinal products for human use, or the environment agency. some agencies are active in the field, such as the eu border agency frontex. the citizens are therefore not at all indifferent to the way these agencies operate. but just as important to taxpayers is how wisely and efficiently our funds are used in these agencies. it is therefore the task of this parliament, mr president, to ensure that this money is used properly. the control of the use of funds by eu agencies is, for the most part, highly effective and rigorous. in fact, from the point of view of budgetary control throughout the eu, the agencies are practically problem-free. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. even in terms of the total, i.e. the amount of money in question, the real problems with the use of eu funds lie outside the eu agencies located in the member states. nevertheless, mr president, in my report on the effectiveness of the agencies, their financial management and control, i have paid particular attention to budgeting and its accuracy, and to improving cooperation between the agencies, the audit and the parliament which controls it. transparency and the absence of conflicts of interest in the activities of eu agencies are also central to my horizontal report and to the discharge reports of all 31 agencies. in the context of any eu agency, there must not be any suspicion of corruption or malpractice in any sense of the word. fortunately, that is not the case, but any suspicion of a conflict of interest is too great and must be resolved. fortunately, the biggest weaknesses in the overall functioning of eu agencies are under-budgeting and the accuracy of recruitment practices. mr president, i would like to draw particular attention to the effectiveness of the agencies. at the same time, i would stress that agencies with very different mandates are in an unequal position when their activities are examined under one and the same standard. it is clear that the audit criteria must be the same for all, but i would ask you to consider whether we could get more out of the agencies with taxpayers' money if we were to apply the criteria on a task-by-task basis. as regards the discharge to be given to the agencies, i would like to propose to this plenary that the discharge and closure of the accounts of the cooperation body of the european regulators for electronic communications, berec, for 2012 be postponed for six months. berec must be able to demonstrate that it has corrected and at least initiated changes that correct or eliminate too many deficiencies in, inter alia, budgeting, implementation, use of funds and internal control and recruitment.
rapporteur. - mr president, all in all, the 2012 agencies discharge procedure has been very productive and rewarding. i would like to thank all the shadows, the agencies, the network and, of course, the court of auditors, for their continued support and cooperation. i think we can be relatively satisfied with the way we have identified and addressed the problems that affected the agencies’ performance. the end result achieves the goals we set out for ourselves as the discharge authority. our recommendations, when implemented, will help the agencies run in a more responsible, transparent, efficient and frugal manner, but this is simply what we owe to our voters. financial oversight has to be performed to the fullest extent. i believe the result of the vote tomorrow will demonstrate our commitment to that goal. however, let me also use this opportunity to say that i welcome commissioner šemeta’s words on concentrating on the most obvious national risks, but i sincerely hope the commission makes good on its promise to use all concrete means at its disposal to make sure that error rates are examined at their roots in order to root them out qualitatively, even if, quantitatively, going down to zero percent is obviously an impossible task. i think that an overwhelming majority of european voters are expecting us to crack this open for everyone to see what the real problems and reasons behind the high error rates in the use of regional and agricultural funds actually are.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr liese, who as rapporteur for this parliament finally took account of the majority of parliament, namely the industrial committee, whose position i myself represented, and the transport committee, when negotiating the agreement with the council. i also thank you, mr hedegaard, for your understanding and support of this compromise. the result of the trilogue is consistent with my statement in the committee on industry, combining ambition to achieve a global binding aviation agreement with real-life realities. the agreement reached is therefore a clear loss of credibility for the commission, which should now update its climate policy. one-sided ambition doesn't get you very far. it is not a question of our right to make other binding laws in our area, but of our duty to be wise in the way we eventually get a proper global agreement. this difficult battle, which will hopefully have a happy ending tomorrow, is also a typical example of the problems that the accelerated procedure will bring. hopefully, we can avoid them in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the european aviation sector today is a strong international actor. for me, what is most important is to maintain the visibility, predictability and stability of the european airline industry – including in the years to come. in order to make aviation ets a truly global agreement, we need to take care that an agreement is reached in icao in order to offer the best prospects of ensuring sustainability and global balance in the global aviation sector in the long term. i would dearly love to see the european union being a leader in the field of innovation as well. i think innovation is also the key in our battle against climate change. in order to pave the way for such development, we need to promote entrepreneurship and encourage eu-based industries. we should be known for the kind of policies that attract investment rather than incite trade wars. this would be the way to set an example for the world in the field of the environment and to take care of our industries. discussions on this dossier have been long and hard and i have been following them closely throughout my time in this parliament. tomorrow i would be really happy to see the compromise the rapporteur, mr liese, managed to squeeze out accepted after all these troublesome stages. we have to have a strong united voice to make sure a balanced agreement can be reached.
for the verts/ale group mr president, i thank the rapporteur for the good effort he has made. unfortunately, the greens cannot support the rapporteur's proposal and we propose to reject it. it is shameful that the eu is backing down on environmental legislation under pressure from the us, russia and china, which has been fuelled by european airlines. if you think it is too radical to go back to the law we ourselves adopted six years ago, which covered one third of the world's international aviation emissions, i hope you can at least support the envi committee and the airline industry. for those of you who fear a trade war, i'd like to remind you that the united states has spoken out at the icao in support of the airline model. i hope that my colleagues will also support the earmarking of the proceeds from the auctioning of emission allowances for climate protection. this would be a major blow to the criticism of aviation emissions trading by developing countries and china, and it is therefore completely foolish for eu governments to oppose this ear-splitting.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, interchange fees for card-based payment transactions should be founded on high standards of transparency and be directed to improve competition. at the same time, we should remember that the operators, players and actors in this sector have created a market without too much regulation of their business model. the market is not perfect, but it works fairly well. therefore, i am not convinced that we need to intervene by aiming at harmonising interchange fees. i especially oppose defining the level of mifs for domestic transactions, which i think should remain in the jurisdiction of national decision-making. sound data protection is also essential. firstly, data protection procedures should be in line with the opinions of the european data protection supervisor. secondly, liabilities of the third-party payment service provider should be better stated – especially with regard to protection of personal security features. lastly, a minimum level of checking is needed to prevent fraud in refund claims. therefore, payment service providers should be granted enough time for investigation. strict time limits would serve neither the consumer nor the payment service provider.
mr president, robert schuman, the founder of the european union, is often quoted as saying that the european union develops through crises. the european neighbourhood is currently on fire and the economic crisis is not going away. so these crises also provide an opportunity for the european union's common foreign and security policy to develop. lady ashton, you were right when you said that all the great challenges require cooperation, and you were also right when you said that the strength of the european union's foreign policy also depends on the member states, not on lady ashton or the council, but on the member states and the european parliament. what concerns me is what you have not dealt with, namely the european union's common policy towards russia. as has been said here, president putin is actually laughing at the european union at the moment. we must develop a common policy towards russia.
in writing. - mr president, i have just voted in favour of this important report. in most member states, payment card delivery charges are not subject to any legislation but are decided by national competition authorities. in the common market, this is not sustainable. different practices in the member states weaken the position of consumers and the efficiency of businesses. some are concerned that a common european ceiling will raise the cost of running the system for consumers. the eu must therefore plan and monitor closely to ensure that the reform does not make the use of payment cards more expensive and more difficult for consumers. it would be to no one's advantage!
in writing. - mr president, one of the essential elements of the electronic single market is the internet. its position is well illustrated by the fact that if the internet were a country, its economy would be the fifth largest in the world. furthermore, it is estimated that by 2016, more than 3 billion people - nearly half the world's population - will be using the internet. the internet has become indispensable in the daily lives of many consumers. the eu also has a number of projects aimed at making life easier for consumers through electronic services. however, the use of electronic services is threatened by the talk of reducing the openness of the internet. the openness of the internet must not be restricted. it must continue to be available to all at competitive prices and operators must be obliged to transmit data at the same speed, regardless of the source. in an increasingly electrified world, a free and open internet has become a kind of basic right of citizens. this is the right we must defend in the future!
for the alde group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation. my group in the centre-liberal group supports the creation of an open register of lobbyists, a register which will be uniform across the various eu institutions, the so-called 'transparency register'. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. when official interest groups like this come to the table, we all know that they represent a certain party. then if a consulting firm or a law firm comes in, they may be anti-tobacco in the morning and pro-tobacco in the evening. it is therefore of the utmost importance that there should be a single common register, in which companies are recorded and also the amount of money spent. the second important point is that when reports are drawn up in parliament, a so-called legislative footprint would be introduced, i.e. the important reports which members have heard in preparing the report. this is also part of the transparency, the restoration of confidence in this european parliament and eu action, which is so badly needed at the moment.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mr mcintyre and mr rübig for allowing us to conclude the legislature by discussing the real economy and the problems of 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of our european economy. this debate is the culmination of a lot of hard work by the commission and parliament, which have finally succeeded in convincing the council of the importance of giving europe industrial policy guidelines, as happened at the last council meeting. small and mediumsized enterprises are very important - in addition to large industry - because without them and without selfemployed people and professionals, as mr rübig has stressed, no new jobs can be created today and no jobs can be safeguarded. what is to be done? i believe that one of the major obstacles to be overcome is access to the internal market. we must allow our small and mediumsized enterprises to work - today only 26 per cent are able to work outside their country of origin and even only 13 per cent outside the european union - by giving them simple rules, reducing administrative burdens and clearing the ground of the european union of all those obstacles which prevent small and mediumsized enterprises from working. the document on industrial revival adopted by the commission and subsequently endorsed by the council mentions three legislative initiatives which the commission will have to take: 3 days and 100 euros to start a business, one month to grant a permit and reduced time for litigation. the commission is working through the refit programme, mapping all union legislation to identify burdens, gaps and inefficient or ineffective measures. i would like to announce that the commission will present a communication in june on the state of play of the implementation of the refit initiative and will launch a public consultation to carry out further reflection on the subject. in addition, as part of the refit programme, the commission will publish a scoreboard to monitor the union's initiatives to simplify and reduce burdens through the legislative procedure and its implementation in the member states. in his speech mr rübig referred to the top ten, the administrative burdens we have called for in a public consultation. we are trying to provide answers with regard to reach, which is the first on the list, we have reduced registration costs for smes by between 35 and 90 per cent, we have appointed an sme ambassador to echa the european agency for reach we have put forward simplification proposals for six legislative instruments: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data. we are also working on the creation of a single point of contact to facilitate vat procedures for cross-border transactions. we have called on all member states to apply the principle of 'think small first' systematically in all legislative texts, particularly to emphasise the protection of small and mediumsized enterprises. the network of smes ambassadors is functioning, all the member states have appointed an ambassador, an sme minister, to implement in each member state and to coordinate the implementation of the small business act, a network which meets regularly under the leadership of my director-general. i would like to take this opportunity to call on the member states to be consistent, because some of them, who are champions of the fight against bureaucracy, are backing down when they are called upon to take concrete action. i am thinking of the proposal, which will be discussed tomorrow evening, on the registration of cars in another member state. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. another very important issue is access to credit. as you know, for the first time in the community budget there is 150 billion for industrial policy, 100 billion for the regional funds, 40 billion for horizon 2020 for innovation and research and 2 and a half billion for cosme, which is the package specifically for the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises. the adoption of this package is also the result of the close and strong cooperation between parliament and the european commission over the past few years. i would therefore like to thank the house for supporting the commission's proposals which were in the same direction. mr rübig referred to the subject of the selfemployed in his speech. the other day we launched an action plan for the selfemployed and the selfemployed, whom the commission considers to be genuine entrepreneurs. in the document on entrepreneurship, we identified for the first time the professional and the self-employed as entrepreneurs. the action plan provides that the selfemployed and the professional will be able to participate in all community calls for proposals, and will have access to community funds as do all small and mediumsized enterprises. this is an important innovation, which is directed towards those who produce and those who create jobs. i think you all know how much i care about the implementation of the late payment directive. i have had to be very strict even with my own country in this respect because i believe that citizens should have a good example from public administration. citizens must pay taxes, but states must set an example and pay their suppliers within the time limits set by law. another work which we have successfully completed is basel iii. i thank parliament for its strong action in introducing the ems supporting factor, which will make it easier to lend up to one and a half million euros to small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of information centres, the development of a european network of information centres and the development of a european network of information centres. i remembered it at the beginning of my talk: only 13% of european smes work outside the european union and this seems to me to be a serious mistake for the potential and quality of production of our smes.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, for us in the epp, business is the backbone of the european economy as a whole, and we see smes in particular as the main contributors to employment, taxation and, therefore, to welfare societies. the report has extensively reviewed the regulatory framework for enterprises and eu-level programmes to stimulate entrepreneurship, such as the small business act and the entrepreneurship 2020 programmes. however, it should be noted that not all the facilities available to smes under eu rules are always used at national level. a candy store and a multi-million dollar business may be required to do exactly the same things nationally. there is therefore a lot of room for improvement in both national and eu regulation, and the refit programme is a prime example of this. in particular, the start-up phase and the recruitment of the first external worker should be facilitated, using the so-called 'one-stop-shop' principle. at a time when we are still living through an economic crisis, it is important to remember that despite all the fine financial instruments and venture capital funds and business angels, traditional banks and bank loans are still the most important source of finance for european small businesses.
in writing. i've been following this conversation closely. the economic and financial crisis that has shaken europe has made us aware of the need to regulate and supervise banking better. we must not allow future crises to overtake us unarmed. the completion of the banking union has been the main political issue this spring. the banking union is essential to avoid similar disasters in the future. national control and resolution measures are no longer sufficient. in the name of investor responsibility, the deposit guarantee fund should be collected from banks, not from citizens. the ordinary taxpayer must no longer be made to pay for the failures of reckless bankers and investors. however, the european union's competence in the banking union was not to be increased. the important principle of the sovereignty of the states over national economic policy is to be upheld! but decisions at european level should also involve the only democratic institution in our union. the banking union is also about increasing solidarity between the two sides. in finland, there is understandably opposition to the establishment of a deposit guarantee fund for banks with common resources. the idea is that since we already have a deposit guarantee fund in finland to protect our national banks, each country should take care of its own protection. the problem is that the core of the problem is in the case of transnational banks and in the case of member states which do not comply with the rules agreed by the member states. the banking union was born in a hurry. the euro elections were certainly intended to avoid embarrassing questions about the banking union. the agreement reached now makes it possible to focus on economic growth and thus on investment and job creation rather than on financial regulation after the elections. the market is supposed to serve the people, not the people's market.
rapporteur. - mr president, we are dealing here with one of the key regulations concerning the functioning of the internal market, be it in terms of consumer safety or of a level playing field between different companies. when dealing with this legislation, i have been shocked and appalled at how poor our systems truly are. 99.7% of products entering our markets are not checked, so being caught in our checking mechanism is a bit like a negative lottery that encourages those entrepreneurs and actors who are fraudulent to use the system to the disadvantage of our law-abiding companies and to the disadvantage of our consumers. there are ce mark falsifications, non-compliant unsafe products, non-compliance with environmental (reach or other) legislation. this volume is increasing because our resources are scarce and the international and global trade is increasing – as it should, for the benefit of our consumers. the practices of market surveillance in our member states are very uneven. we have member states that are actually functioning rather well and others that leave quite a lot to be desired, but the point is that when the products are placed on our markets in one corner of the eu they spread all over the eu. and worse, if we are looking for sustainable growth for our companies, there is the question of what happens to those responsible producers in europe that actually obey our legislation and our consumer safety norms. their products are more expensive and may be neglected. one would understand that if there is an iron or a light that is ten times more expensive than another, then there might be some difference, but you assume when you go to a shop – as you should be able to assume – that the products have been checked and are safe to use, and not that 70 people all over europe die or are severely injured every year because those unlawful extinguishers explode when they are dropped on the floor. what parliament did, then, was to support and strengthen the commission position on risk-based assessment of market surveillance. it stressed the importance of increased and better cooperation requirements for member states’ market surveillance, and what i found very important was that it increased the deterrent penalties that should be harmonised. these would be brought into operation only in cases where this infringement of market surveillance regulations is continuous and deliberate, so it would hit only the part that it should be hitting. then there was a common understanding in parliament that, because we do not have much in the way of public resources – nor will we have in future, and the market is increasing – that we should develop better internal inspection systems within companies that are to be externally audited, and so actually the companies would be responsible for the production chain and the content of the ce mark and the reliability of their products. i think that is one of the big avenues for us in the future. i am very disappointed that the council did not have the possibility even to finish the negotiations. i am slightly appalled that we cannot see any council representatives here in our negotiations, despite the importance of the issue, and i am looking forward to our commissioner continuing with parliament in stringent efforts to push forward this legislation. to conclude, many thanks to my colleagues, co-rapporteur christel schaldemose, and all the shadows for their excellent work.
rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank the commissioners for their very constructive comments that showed strong support for parliament’s position and that we are going forward in a very good way. i would also like to thank my colleagues for their comments, which show that a broad majority in parliament supports having better and safer markets for our consumers and businesses. with consumers, responsible businesses and a clear majority in the parliament and the commission on the same page, i think we can duly regulate and create a better and safer internal market and market surveillance. i would like to call on the council to start responsible negotiations as soon as possible so that we can put better regulation in place. this is in the interest of both europeans and european businesses.
in writing. i voted for compromise. the responsibilities of the single resolution fund were satisfactorily resolved and the democratic control of the fund was improved. the final agreement contains elements that also safeguard the position of finnish financial institutions in a crisis situation.
in writing. - i voted for the report. the compromise we voted for today was a result of difficult negotiations. i think that it is important to give the industry a signal that alternative fuels and the technology that goes with them is needed and wanted in the european union. taking this together with the commission’s 2030 climate and energy package we should work together with the industry to create more innovation and development and thus also new jobs in the union.
mr president, road transport is the backbone of the eu's freight transport. it is good to realize that they will form that backbone for the foreseeable future. it is therefore important to regulate the equipment of these transports. the commission proposed amendments to the directive on the dimensions and masses of heavy goods vehicles to improve vehicle safety and fuel efficiency. we were quite unanimous on this in the committee on transport. however, a very different issue was at the centre of the debate: can two member states cross their borders with vehicles that do not meet eu standards? as rapporteur for the epp group's report, i firmly supported the commission's position: if, for example, finland, sweden and denmark want to cross their borders with slightly more vehicles than the eu standard, then this must continue to be the case. unfortunately, the socialist and democratic group and the greens wanted to ban the use of these module combinations. as these wishes to ban were also expressed within the other groups, i had to accept a compromise on behalf of the epp group which ensures that the present situation will continue unchanged for the time being. this is an important victory for nordic road transport, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i am satisfied with the decision parliament took in this matter. it was a decent compromise. i cannot understand why some wanted the eu to ban those vehicles completely. these vehicles are needed for the logging and paper transport industries, for example. the eu should raze barriers, not create new ones and create obstacles for trade, which would be the consequence if trucks had to stop at borders to unload and reload their goods onto another truck on the other side of the border. finland and sweden are small countries when it comes to population, but we have huge distances and long roads with very little traffic in some parts of the country. therefore i think the subsidiarity principle should be the guiding principle so member states can ban this type of truck from their roads if they so wish. finland and sweden certainly want those trucks, in the future too. now those trucks will be allowed to cross at least one internal eu border. even though i did not want to see any restrictions on the number of borders a truck can cross if member states allow this, i am satisfied that the line taken now is better than the original line by the rapporteur.
mr president, i voted in favour of this important report. the use of cash is rapidly declining, and a bank account with a credit card has become a necessity. despite this, some 30 million people over the age of 18 in europe do not have access to a bank account. the lack of bank accounts makes life more difficult for citizens and prevents them from fully participating in society and benefiting from the benefits of the internal market. this report also helps to promote equality and to combat the economic and social exclusion of citizens. the reform also improves the position of the current account holders. in future, citizens will have access to clearer and more comparable information on the charges and conditions for use of the various banking groups. this report is a good example of how the eu can help ordinary citizens in practical terms.
in writing. - the disclosure of non-financial information is an essential part of corporate social responsibility. without information on the company's environmental policy and social responsibility, it is impossible for the average consumer to assess how responsibly the company is acting and whether the company's behaviour is such that he wants to support the company with his own consumption behaviour. that is why i welcome the fact that we are seeking to extend the reporting obligations for large companies. the extension of reporting obligations is also supportive of eu action, as a successful eu policy is not a matter for the union or its member states alone. successful policies need to support businesses that are not only focused on maximising profits, but also on improving the lives of consumers and promoting sustainable development. that is why i wholeheartedly support mr baldassare's report.
member of the commission. - mr president, i am pleased that the proposed directive on supplementary pension rights is now only one step from becoming law. this has become possible thanks to the constructive and committed cooperation of all sides, but in particular i would like to underline the major role played by the rapporteur, ria oomen-ruijten. as you aware, the commission first put forward this proposal, known at the time as the portability directive, in 2005. we should have revised the proposal in 2007, taking on board guidance from the first reading of the european parliament. however, it proved impossible in the council to find a common position. despite a legislative impasse, the commission continued to look for a way forward. in 2010, the consultation on the green paper on pensions confirmed a clear demand to improve the rules on acquisition and preservation of mobile workers’ supplementary pension rights. in 2012, in a white paper on pensions, the commission committed itself to launching work in this area, in cooperation with the council and parliament. that work resulted in an agreement late in 2013 between the co-legislators. the draft directive as it stands today looks quite different both from the initial proposal and the revised proposal of 2007. nevertheless, i believe that it will step up the protection of mobile workers’ occupational rights in several aspects. first, it provides that pension rights must, at the latest, be granted irrevocably or vested if the worker has been with the employer for three years. this offers tangible improvements compared to the present situation. currently workers in some countries have to stay with their employer for five or 10 years, or even until retirement, to avoid losing out on future pensions. secondly, occupational pension schemes will be obliged to preserve the accrued pension rights of former workers after they leave the employer. the rights must be treated fairly compared to active workers, for instance through indexation against inflation. thirdly, the directive provides that workers should be duly informed of the impact of any mobility on their pension rights and, after leaving the pension scheme, of the value of their dormant rights. i would like to stress that this directive covers all occupational pension schemes, irrespective of how they are financed or how the benefits are set. reflecting the difficult compromise achieved in the council, the scope of the directive has been reduced to workers who move between member states. at the same time the council and the commission, together with the parliament, have called on member states to apply the same standards to workers who change jobs within the country. this seems to be common sense and i understand most national governments intend to do this. i do believe that the current draft directive represents the possible best compromise. it improves the situation of mobile workers and contributes to the further building of a genuine european labour market, underpinned by good protection of workers’ rights.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank in particular my colleague, mrs ria oomen-ruijten, whose parliamentary career is now coming to an end here and who, after ten years of struggle, is finally seeing the passing of this proposal on the transferability of supplementary pension rights. it is essential to ensure that, in order to facilitate mobility, pension fund participants also benefit fairly and in due time from self-funded pension protection. however, it should be noted that pension systems differ from one country to another and that even in this case the proposal is not to harmonise pension systems, but to preserve these national specificities. there are different ways of classifying, for example, first, second and third pillar pensions in different countries. but the important thing is that we have enough pension funds in the future, and so the various part-funded schemes have shown their strength compared to the so-called pay-as-you-go schemes. as the commissioner said, the commission's intention in the green and white papers was to compare best practice between member states and to encourage member states to build sustainable pension systems. similarly, different features such as the life-cycle factor ensure the profitability of the system, and supercharging also encourages continuing work hours. in many countries, supplementary pensions are also a means of employee involvement, so that the three-year limit set by the compromise can be considered quite reasonable. there are certainly also those member states which, perhaps, would have wished for a little more time because of this commitment, but as i said, that is the way it is.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr danuta jazłowiecka, for her excellent work in drafting this directive. the most important thing is that member states can use different control measures if they wish to monitor the rights of posted workers. in my own country, finland, for example, the tax numbering system is important in the fight against the grey economy. in the subcontracting chain, however, the member state has the option of proceeding from a national point of departure. these rules set out new criteria to help member states identify genuine posting situations, from those where the only purpose is to circumvent the legislation by social dumping, such as by targeting letterbox businesses, to forced self-employment.
mr president, thank you to the rapporteur and the representatives of the groups. i'm sure the negotiations have been very difficult. there are a lot of loopholes, but it's all about control. the greens would have liked to take workers' rights much further, but this is a good step forward. the right of member states to control the activities of companies is clarified, and this also includes letterbox companies, forced entrepreneurship and artificial transmissions. these have thus been loopholes that companies have ruthlessly exploited to exploit posted workers. the good news is that the green group has also put forward a worker information point.
in writing. the development of the rules of the game in working life has been left behind in eu decision-making during this parliamentary term by the economic crisis. the number of legislative reforms concerning working life has remained low. the postal workers directive, adopted this week, is one of the most significant pieces of labour legislation of the period. the result of the negotiations on the renewal of the posted workers directive is a reasonable compromise. it will improve cooperation between authorities in the fields of information exchange and sanctions. the directive was improved in parliament's deliberations, but several important amendments, including more detailed definitions and scope, were not adopted. the directive should have included the right of action for trade unions, which would allow them to bring infringement proceedings without the consent of the employee. the directive also eliminated the whole chain of responsibility, whereby the main contractor would have been clearly liable for infringements in the subcontracting chain. this principle would apply to many areas of legislation and should be applied horizontally, for example public procurement legislation.
mr president, commissioner, cooperation and networking between public employment services is particularly important in this difficult employment situation. it is important to remember, however, that labour services and unemployment protection are organised differently in different countries and are also a matter of national decision-making. so i think the only way forward is on a voluntary basis, but by exchanging best practice we can certainly make a good deal of progress. as the commissioner mentioned here, the implementation of the european youth guarantee has focused attention on the smooth running of labour market services in the various member states, and in many countries there is room for improvement. the good functioning of employment services is a basic prerequisite for the employment of young people, and i would also like to highlight the possibilities for disabled and partially disabled people to find work during this economic crisis. in many cases, it is these groups that would particularly need support from the labour services. i would have liked to ask the commissioner how the employment opportunities of disabled people and people with reduced mobility are given special attention in the labour market services. according to a report by the european forum against poverty and social exclusion, 6.5 million people at risk of poverty and social exclusion reported having some type of disability that makes it difficult for them to find employment.
mr president, the smuggling and trafficking of cultural goods has become a widespread form of illicit trade. europe too has not been spared this modern plague. trade in cultural goods, and in particular national treasures, has become the third largest source of income for organised crime. each year, up to 40 000 items of cultural heritage are illegally removed from eu countries. the eu legislation dating back to 1993 has been too inefficient, too strict and too restrictive. eu legislation should facilitate the return of cultural goods to the country from which they were illegally removed and facilitate the return process. nor should national treasures of artistic, historical or archaeological value be treated as ordinary commodities. cultural goods should therefore be afforded special protection and protection in relation to the other rules of the internal market. in a europe without internal borders, it is already difficult to prevent the illegal transport of cultural objects from one country to another. it is important that the union also contributes, through legislation, to the development, diversity and pluralism of the cultures of the member states. the appreciation of culture and its heritage is of paramount importance in this respect. i regret that the commission has limited parliament's powers to influence the content of this directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report. it is important to set binding targets for the reduction of plastic bags and, at the same time, plastic litter. the reports of plastic debris in the world's oceans and in the bellies of birds and animals, among others, are shocking, as is the fact that plastic debris has hindered the search for a missing plane in the indian ocean. plastic bags are not the only plastic waste in the oceans and other parts of the environment, but reducing the use of plastic bags is very simple. at the same time, it is about incentives to introduce environmentally better solutions that are applicable worldwide. unnecessary consumption is always bad, but as far as plastic bags are concerned, we should quickly move to genuinely biodegradable ones, ones that under normal conditions decompose into carbon dioxide, water and biomass. in that case, the use of non-perishable plastic bags may be banned altogether.
the author. - your honor, pakistan has had a blasphemy law in place for nearly 30 years. in recent months, pakistan has issued numerous death sentences under the blasphemy law. many of the cases are politically motivated, regional settlements that discriminate against pakistan's religious minorities in particular. among other things, the un has called for the repeal of the blasphemy law or at least for its prevention. freedom of speech is a fundamental human right. it should be restricted only in extremely exceptional circumstances, such as incitement to hatred and religious or racial discrimination. the state cannot dictate the thinking of its citizens or walk in the economic belt of extremist religious actors. sadly, the vilification of religion has become a new global political tension. pakistan must respect the pluralism of the media. citizens have the right to receive and impart information and opinions from various sources and to communicate their opinions to one another. a society that talks is a treasure and a key to diversity.
the author. - mr president, i have been working on human rights for many years and one of my observations is that in countries with human rights problems, oppression is often based on an extended, or stretched, interpretation of the criminal law. such extended interpretations are like a black hole in human rights. in different countries, that black hole is different. in pakistan, it's a blasphemy law. in our resolution we cite as one example a christian couple who were sentenced to death two weeks ago. they're accused of sending a text message mocking the prophet muhammad. the convicts deny the charges and say that the cell phone was stolen from them before the messages were sent. it's typical. i have personally met many in pakistan who have suffered the same fate, facing death or prison. the cause may be anything but blasphemous. it could be jealousy or a desire to get rid of a business rival. my friend, minister of minorities shahbaz bhatti was one of those who dedicated his life to changing the blasphemy law. he specifically wanted to limit the arbitrary or extended interpretation of this law so that only the state could bring a charge of blasphemy against an individual, not another person. bhatti was murdered in his car because of a fight. as well as the murder of governor salman taseer and many others.
author. - mr president, the sectarian violence continues in pakistan. we strongly condemn all acts of violence against religious communities, as well as all kinds of discrimination and intolerance on the grounds of religion and belief. the government of pakistan needs to intervene to protect victims of religiously motivated mob violence. it needs to ban public hate speeches and encourage all pakistanis to work together to promote and ensure tolerance and mutual understanding. we urge the pakistani authorities to prosecute those responsible for incitement and false accusations of blasphemy. the government should stop censorship of the internet and revise the draft anti-terrorism legislation, as well as its draft ngo legislation.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the attention of europe has been focused on ukraine recently, but it is very good that in this debate on urgency we are reminded that the shocking syrian crisis is continuing. on this thursday night, many christians around the world will gather for communion services, but unfortunately in syria homs, aleppo and many other cities christians live amidst continuing persecution and suffering. as my colleagues have said, we do not underestimate the plight of any minority, all of them need help. human rights watch has drawn particular attention to the extent to which the syrian regime is currently blocking the delivery of aid. the bab al-salam and other similar camps, including those near the turkish border, are home to close to a million people who were forced to flee aleppo, and the syrian government has consistently blocked aid deliveries across borders not under its immediate control.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the continuing violent conflict in syria has led to a humanitarian catastrophe unprecedented in recent history. the population of syria is made up of many different ethnic and religious communities. many religious minority communities are particularly vulnerable. syria, like the european union, has grown in its diversity into a unified whole of minorities, cultures and religions. this diversity is a national treasure which we must all protect. political and religious leaders have a duty to combat extremism and terrorism and to promote mutual respect. it is important that the european union shows that it is true to its word. noble aims are worthless if we lack action. although the international community cannot bring an end to the syrian civil war for political reasons, it must respond to the refugee crisis it has created. a human need must be addressed humanely.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the conclusions of the un committee of inquiry into the systematic, widespread and serious violations of human rights in north korea are shocking. these are egregious and brutal crimes against humanity. the situation in north korea must be taken very seriously. i am signing the demands of this resolution, but i am very much afraid that these crimes against humanity will continue. the international community is unable - and above all unwilling - to interfere with the sovereignty of an independent state. unfortunately, no progress has been made on the principle of responsibility for protection, or r2p. this is unfortunate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it is unbelievable how closed authoritarian societies can have control over every aspect of citizens’ lives, not to talk about the violence or unspeakable atrocities against inmates of prison camps. we were talking before, with morten messerschmidt, about national governments and their responsibilities. the national government of north korea should, of course, have a responsibility to put an end to extrajudicial killings, forced disappearances and collective punishment. this is not ok and the international community and the eu must put them under pressure. in north korea all prison camps should be closed, political prisoners released and citizens allowed to travel freely both within and outside the country and we call on – and i underline this – the north korean government to allow free expression and press freedom of national and international media as well as uncensored access to the internet for its citizens. we also call on the government to invest in the living conditions of its people, instead of building military arsenals and investing in a nuclear programme.
mr president, mr commissioner, the almost 400-page report of the united nations commission of inquiry set up in february shows that serious crimes against humanity have been committed and are still being committed in north korea. i don't think that's going to surprise anyone in this room. the report describes systematic executions, murders, slavery, torture, imprisonment, rape, forced abortion, sexual violence, political and religious persecution on the grounds of race and gender, forced displacement of populations and even deliberate prolongation of famine. the un human rights council adopted a resolution on the subject and called on the un to establish structures to better monitor and control the situation in north korea and to increase knowledge of the continuing human rights violations in north korea. the human rights council also called on the un security council to take action on the situation in north korea. the international community can no longer turn a blind eye.
the author. - mr president, for decades we have been aware of the shocking pattern of human rights in north korea, without having a concrete picture of what is happening. a year ago, the un for the first time set up an international commission of inquiry to look into the situation. the report was completed in february and it turned out to be a case of fears and doubts. the human rights situation in north korea is one of the worst in the world, and the humanitarian crisis is equally worrying. the work of the committee of inquiry revealed systematic and serious human rights violations: torture, murder, rape, forced abortions and persecution on religious and political grounds, arbitrary arrests, the use of prison camps and the denial of freedom of expression. the country itself has refused to cooperate with the un. now the rest of the world must stand together, the international community must now react strongly. the commission should continue its humanitarian aid programmes and maintain dialogue with north korea in this regard. the distribution of food and humanitarian aid must be guaranteed.
the question of the blue card. i would like to ask on what grounds you claim that the social democrats want to continue along the same line? we have always stressed the need to make room for investment, to give the economy oxygen, to improve employment and so on. and you dare to say that we want to continue on the same line. what's your reason?
mr president, i think that the situation today is that the situation in ukraine is still deteriorating and that russia is probably already moving towards some form of occupation in eastern ukraine. one of the problems here, and one that has been referred to in many speeches, is that there is now a very large amount of propaganda being used as a tool in this war. this is a rather new situation and i would like to ask commissioner füle what instruments we have to act in this situation, to communicate information based on verified sources? you yourself said that you were trying to avoid unnecessary tensions by filtering out all kinds of misunderstandings, but what do you do with this kind of direct propaganda which then tends, for example in russia, to justify the actions of president putin? in this situation, can we support, for example, independent civil society, independent media in eastern ukraine, in russia? what can we do? it is quite clear that if russia does not stop talking one thing and doing another then we are in a situation where sanctions are needed to the next level.
the question of the blue card. mr president, it is regrettable that the deal of the century has become so infamous. the member states themselves are to bear the responsibility for the failure of the member states to defend this. the commissioner and the commission seem to be the only ones driving this, even though the member states had agreed. i would like to ask you, mr green, if you see any good in this proposed agreement. in terms of growth, employment, labour rights, do you see any good thing?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is now on the road to recovery, and this recovery and growth must be nurtured on all fronts. we must also look for new sources of growth in markets beyond our borders. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is a key part of europe's new agenda for growth and jobs. it is a means of opening up the us market to european companies. this agreement should make a strong contribution to the export success of european smes. at the same time, however, the mutual acceptance of standards must not mean that our own laws are weakened. for example, the agreement must not interfere with the right of the parties to maintain a high level of food security and environmental protection. the competitiveness of european agriculture must also be safeguarded. the key to the agreement is that credible answers to the concerns of the citizens are found. this requires transparency and effective dialogue with civil society. the willingness of commissioner de gucht to publish the negotiating mandates is a positive step. the commission's public consultation on investment protection and the mediation procedure with regard to the rule of law is also relevant. this is the right way. we must look at the forest in the light of the trees, that is to say, the impact of this agreement on european economic growth and employment. but the state of the trees, that is, consumer protection, the countryside and the rule of law must also be taken care of.
in writing. it is regrettable that the maternity leave directive was not agreed last term and that the commission is withdrawing the directive. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the directive would have been a minimum harmonisation measure and would not have prevented member states from regulating a higher level of maternity leave. the directive would have been important for the internal market. it would have created a more level playing field for european industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of women in the labour market. higher birth rates are a boost to economic growth in high-income countries. the birth rate is highest in countries where good family leave and childcare services compensate for the burden of children. these are the countries with the highest female employment rates. the proposal for a directive required that maternity leave be counted as a period of employment for the purposes of calculating pensions. the directive would have narrowed the gap between the development of women's and men's incomes.
in writing. the commission decided to withdraw the proposal for a long-negotiated pregnancy protection directive. the proposal, which parliament had already approved, was left on the table after many member states were reluctant to take the initiative for fear of the costs. the commission's decision is very regrettable and reflects the fact that women's rights are often seen as secondary. the directive would have created a minimum length and a better level of compensation for european maternity leave - a minimum of two weeks was also proposed for paternity leave. in many member states, parental leave is still short and poorly compensated, which contributes to lower income levels and later retirement ages for women. the failure of the negotiations is also regrettable in the sense that parliament's proposal is in line with the who recommendations on maternity leave.
mr president, in his maiden speech, the newly elected president of the commission, jean-claude juncker, promised a new beginning for europe. a new beginning would be to see the new commission take the fight against youth unemployment seriously. economic discipline should be used to discipline unemployment. what does that mean, "i'm not"? of course, growth and new jobs, but that also means special measures for young people, education must be better adapted to the needs of working life, apprenticeship training should be strengthened. this means, of course, that employers are also more involved in the design of support measures for young people. support measures must be easy for both employers and young people to apply for and employers to take up. a new beginning unemployment under control.
mr president, first of all, the obvious but painful fact has to be stated once again: the situation is absolutely unbearable. and not just that, but unfortunately the payment nightmare of the european union is also such that it will not go away even if we manage to solve the acute cash-flow crisis. but we have to start somewhere. so the first thing that should be done is to mobilise all instruments available to cover the shortfall. every year we commit ourselves to a certain number of programmes. so we all agreed to a certain total of bills – and now those bills have to be paid. this can only be done by temporarily increasing the level of payments as far as i can see. but as i said, this alone does not get us far. as the total sum of outstanding commitments keeps rising year after year, there are only painful answers left – given that we genuinely want to solve the budget crisis. as i suppose we do. ironically, the post-financial crisis position of the council does make sense in the way that we can spend only what we can afford to spend. but it is ironic because member states were there when commitments were made. so, if we want to be logical in building a better union, we first have to answer our own call. after, but only after, that has been done, can we reduce the level of payments. the level of commitments we can, and perhaps should reduce cautiously. but even more importantly, we should make sure that what we commit ourselves to makes sense in terms of creating new economic activity, which will in turn help us out of this vicious circle and this means that we have to achieve the badly needed growth and that growth will then bring employment.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the bureau for the timing of the human rights debate. last term, the questions were on thursday nights, and there were less than ten people here, and the voting results could be completely random. this is an important place for human rights issues at a time when many member states have adopted the view that trade is the only thing that matters in foreign policy. it is extremely important to highlight human rights issues in this way, because the european union must have values and not just interests. the case of meriam ibrahim is a shocking example, and the european union must now act and show its strength in order to secure her release. we must defend him, otherwise the european union will not have a real foreign policy. it may be a trade, but it's not right.
for the verts/ale group mr president, the case of the chibok girls is a shocking illustration of the violation of the rights of women and girls around the world. we must work at all levels to ensure that we can secure these rights. malala, a pakistani schoolgirl who was herself a victim of the taliban, is currently in nigeria and she has said to the leaders of boko haram, "don't misuse islam". she has also clearly attracted international attention to the fact that the case of these girls is of great importance in the defence of the rights of women and girls. i would like to draw attention to the fact that a particularly important concern in the rights of women and girls is the fact that their sexual and reproductive health rights are being trampled on all over the world. and i hope that the european union will continue its international work for these rights, so that every girl and woman has the opportunity to control her own body, to decide her own life, and not to be sold as a commodity, a sex slave, by such groups, and to lose in every way the chance to live a life of dignity. we have to get these girls out. to keep the international attention on nigeria until they are free.
the first item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in ukraine and relations between the european union and russia. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
mr president, it is indeed puzzling and dangerous that relations between the european union and russia have deteriorated so sharply and so rapidly. in fact, this has been the case all through the turn of the millennium, but now, of course, this interference with ukraine's sovereignty has sharpened the gap. the borders of europe must not be changed, that is clear. the words have hardened, and that too is dangerous. the new times (russia) newspaper wrote on september 6: when finland is annexed to russia, finland becomes russia's hong kong. i saw a great promise. of course, in russia too, people say what they say and write what they write, and not everything is the kremlin's voice. but i do think that this hardened rhetoric is very dangerous. the purpose of these sanctions is to force the parties to the negotiating table. that's why they're important. the main thing that is making it difficult for the economy at the moment, apart from the sanctions, is that we don't know what president putin is thinking, we don't really know what the next step is for russia, whether it's transnistria or what it is.
mr president, honourable members, in the middle of this crisis and war which touches all of europe and the european order, i regret to share with you the news that the finnish government – the government of my country – is about to take a decision on thursday to license a russian nuclear power station provided by rosatom, which is an integral part of the russian government. i believe that this goes directly against the spirit of our policy on russia, and i would like to draw your attention to this decision. i really hope that the finnish government will still reconsider the decision because it would be very regrettable.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, when somebody in finland is doing something very stupid he is usually these days asked: do you have all your moomins in the valley? when i heard minister zanetti, i got the feeling that the moomins in his valley had fled in panic. the commission made clear that they need all the payments that they have allocated to research and development – and especially to horizon 2020 – and the implementing rates are good. now the council is cutting heading 1a, with horizon 2020 being hardest hit, having taken 41% of the cuts in the headings. parliament had agreed, together with the council and commission, to strengthen the creation of jobs for growth and competitiveness, but to do this they need to strengthen investment in favour of these goals. i am disappointed in the council due to the fact that its provisional draft budget is one that makes cuts and does not show any support for this agreement. in early 2013, the council wanted the funding for horizon 2020 to represent real growth compared with the 2013 level. as late as 27 june 2014, the council stated that: ‘the credibility of the union depends on its ability to ensure adequate follow-up on decisions and commitments’ and that ‘the union needs bold steps to foster growth, increase investments, create more and better jobs and encourage reforms for competiveness’. you should try to get some of your moomins back into the valley and some of the money back into the budget.
the question of the blue card. you, the previous speaker, warned strongly about the dangers of regulation, even though the problem with digital markets is that they are not regulated, there are no ethical rules, and this has led to a great monopolisation in the world, and european companies have been left behind. the good thing about digital markets is that they allow small businesses to flourish, in principle, and that has led to monopolisation. do you not think that this needs to be regulated?
mr president, if words could be transformed into action by digital means, the digital single market would certainly be in place already. but the world does not function in that way and we have a lot of challenges in front of us. this house is not actually leading, either. when we have to report our journeys from strasbourg back to our hometown we have to do it on paper, even if the boarding passes we have are already digital. so, if we could get some action in this house, we could probably make some progress. commissioner barnier, i do not know if you are allowed to google anymore, but if you are, then you can google helsinki region infoshare, as helsinki city and region has actually opened up a lot of data and information to be used by smes or by individuals. they have created apps which are used by the citizens in the region. so they actually did it another way. they opened it up to possibilities; they opened up the market. if we were able to do it the same way and not just wait for the right paper to be written, we could probably achieve the digital agenda slightly faster.
mr president, this debate shows that there is work for politicians, but hopefully there is also work for the digital sector. we are three years behind the united states and we just need to be able to create a regulatory environment that is favourable to innovation, because the digital market needs rules, but they do not always need harmonisation. i believe that europe must have the courage to give small businesses and operators in different regions the opportunity to be the first in the world to generate new innovations which will have a great potential for use. we have seen this happen. every company has been small at some point, and i would not want to impose laws that are so strict that we cannot innovate. but data protection, which has been the subject of much discussion today, is a fundamental european right. i would say that we are not involuntary commodities as people and as consumers. however, consumers rarely look at the country of origin label when choosing digital services. they're going to choose the best applications. europe must be able to innovate. i look forward to the future commission's good regulation as we take the next step on 4g technology already. will european companies and europe then be in the market or will the innovation advantage again go elsewhere?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, this is my first speech here, so let me borrow madonna’s words: ‘like a virgin speaking for the very first time’, but hopefully not the last. it is clear that we have no time to waste. the new results of the ipcc regarding the scientific basis of climate change leave no room for hesitation. the global society must act now. i do hope that world leaders will do what un secretary-general ban ki-moon has invited them to do next week, which is to bring bold announcements and actions that will reduce emissions, strengthen climate resilience and mobilise political will for an ambitious legally-binding agreement in 2015. we truly need a meaningful global agreement in 2015, and we must make progress in lima. there is only one cop conference before the paris agreement, so pressure is mounting. are we all on track, preparing our national commitments? are our joint ambitions sufficient to make real progress in paris? we need to raise the ambition level before 2020, and – at the same time – we have to create a credible pathway towards a low-carbon planet. we, who are economically stronger, must help those who are most vulnerable to climate change. we must do all we can to share the burden of taking action justly. it is a tall order for a one-day summit, but do we have an alternative while glaciers are melting?
in writing. heads of state will meet in new york next week to discuss climate change for the first time since the copenhagen climate summit in 2009. the gathering of 125 presidents and prime ministers is a key moment to demonstrate the international community's commitment to preventing human-induced climate change at the 2015 paris climate talks. the aim is both to accelerate progress in difficult international negotiations and to encourage participants to hold discussions in their home countries about what their country can do to achieve climate change. if we are to halt the devastating effects of uncontrolled climate change, next year's climate agreement must be both ambitious in its objectives and internationally acceptable. the european union's role in this process remains important, even though our share of the world's carbon dioxide is declining. the eu must succeed in constructive cooperation with a wide range of partners and interests, and the common european front cannot afford to be fragmented.
the question of the blue card. the ecr is the third largest group in parliament at the moment, so it would be great if you could make a statement with this mandate from the citizens, but i only heard a rather dramatic description of the situation. i did not hear the first thought about how to proceed from here. so i ask you, what is the main proposal from your group? how could jobs and growth be created?
mr president, ebola is one of the greatest threats facing the world today. the eu and other international organisations have not taken this threat seriously. it has had to grow, develop, expand and spread. the need for joint coordination between international organizations is now evident, and it is a real shame that the who, the world health organization, for example, does not have the resources at present to take up this challenge. i really hope that the eu, together with the international organizations and the world health organization in particular, will cooperate in such a way that the fight against this threat will not be hampered by a lack of financial resources.
thank you for your speech. i'll make a note of that. the president, who chairs the plenary session, assesses whether we are on schedule and how much we are able to give the blue card speeches.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 162.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in libya (2014/2844 ((rsp)).
mr president, i agree with mr soru that perhaps the greatest violation of human rights in our time is that the mediterranean is becoming a grave for tens of thousands of people. i think this is the issue we really need to tackle more vigorously. it is a great thing that we now have the foreign affairs department and the special expert on human rights and that all these instruments are starting to come into their own. we need to focus on trade agreements. i myself was rapporteur for the eu-kazakhstan trade agreement and it has been a little sad to see that the negotiations are progressing but the human rights situation in the country is deteriorating. i think that parliament should uphold its right to intervene in the content of these trade agreements until the very end before they are concluded.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, there is indeed a serious cycle of violence in bangladesh and it is the task of the government of bangladesh to change this situation. the first and most important instrument for changing this situation is legislation, and it must be based on the principle of human rights and freedoms. freedom of the press, the operation of ngos and the rights of the trade union movement are also of vital importance for the country itself, as is the protection of journalists, etc. these things have to change in bangladesh, otherwise the country will not develop. this tragic rana plaza incident in particular does show that the country needs profound changes. it is therefore right that the european parliament should demand clear and principled action from the member states and from itself, from the european union, and also that multinational companies and the business community should be held accountable for what has happened.
i, for my part, mr president, voted in favour of this resolution and i also welcome the european union's common position on the middle east and on foreign and security policy. we need a good, coherent eu policy that emphasises human rights, the fundamental rights of citizens, conflict prevention and closer economic and people-to-people cooperation in the neighbouring regions. in the long term, this also means stabilising and deepening cooperation with russia. we don't create a permanent enemy. i believe that the ukrainian crisis will do to the eu's foreign and security policy what the financial crisis did to our economic policy. we must work better together and find a strong common ground in the midst of our different priorities. and here, in my view, the policy of small sanctions, small steps, has worked and is working well in relation to ukraine.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the resolution on ukraine and eu-russia relations. he was also a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. i would like to point out, however, that sanctions are not a wise solution in a situation where the parties have agreed to a ceasefire. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. marginalising russia from cooperation of this kind is not conducive to peace in ukraine. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
mr president, health threats should not frighten citizens, but we all know that in an open global world where people and goods move, all health risks and risks are also truly global. the european union must therefore continue to strengthen its capacity to act rapidly in the face of multinational health risks and acute infections. in the case of ebola, the measures have been reasonably adequate and proportionate to the level of risk and the severity of the disease. i think the european union should develop a working model of rapid response for all infectious and serious communicable diseases.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the following is the commission statement on the response to the ebola crisis (2014/2896 ((rsp)). i trust that the commissioners will divide the speaking time into two-and-a-half minutes each. i know from past years that you are both excellent in summarising your messages, even on such a dramatic and difficult subject.
colleagues, we still have a few speakers, but we have to end at 7 p.m. because the parliamentary hearings of some commissioners-designate are starting exactly at 7 p.m. for technical reasons related to web streaming, we have to conclude this debate by 7 p.m.. i am sorry about that, but that is the decision of the bureau and the conference of presidents, who take full political responsibility for it. those members who are not able to speak under catch-the-eye will be able to have their speeches included in the minutes under rule 164 of the rules of procedure.
at this stage, unfortunately, we do not have, as i said, time for the catch-the-eye procedure. under rule 162 (12) of the rules of procedure, members who have not taken part in the debate may, not more than once during a part-session, make a written statement of not more than 200 words, which shall be attached to the verbatim minutes of the sitting.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. last week, britain's oxfam warned that the uncontrolled spread of the ebola virus could spark the worst humanitarian crisis of the century. the eu and its member states have so far committed a total of €500 million to combat the spread of the virus, but much more money is needed. the deployment of medical personnel to west africa and the launch of a full-scale project also requires extensive logistical support, which is only available from military organisations. an exceptional situation requires an exceptional response. ebola is not just a health problem either. if it spreads, it could have major political consequences. as poverty deepens, social welfare can always be shaken. at the same time, we must avoid the atmosphere of fear that we sometimes encounter. hysteria is not helping anyone. ebola must not only be brought to the area, but all infected people must be given the best possible treatment quickly. all of this requires not only resources but also courage and determination.
the question of the blue card. first of all, i want to correct one of the mistakes you made. you said the youth guarantee initiative was born here. he wasn't born here. it's an austrian-finnish innovation. it has been born in the member states, as many other initiatives should be born. you've made a good analysis, but i'd like to ask you a question about the basic issue. what do you think about the fact that over-emphasized discipline and austerity policies have actually led to an increase in youth unemployment in many countries?
the committee on budgets has been asked to deliver an opinion. - mr. speaker, i have to go. a policy is only as effective as it is implemented. this also applies, of course, to the financial planning period. the global financial crisis clearly demonstrated how the western world has been living beyond its means since the mid-1970's, first in small steps, later with rapidity. the financial crisis also showed how the economies of the eu countries are linked. so a country's economic troubles are not its own. sooner or later, it will also be the concern of the whole of the european union. in the 1950s and 1960s we still had the idea that we could, within the framework of national legislation, temporarily solve the challenges of our time, but countless studies - the studies of wolfgang streek, joseph stiglitz, thomas piketty - show that the golden age is long gone, and as you can see from the list of speakers, i will continue from a slightly different perspective in a minute and a half.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. - mr. speaker, i have to go. it is precisely because we were living beyond our means that we were forced to create common rules and tools such as the stability and growth pact and the europe 2020 target. but of course, the rules must be followed for them to be effective. the country-specific recommendations made by the european commission in 2013 show that member states implemented only 10 percent. of course, that's not good enough. the economic forecasts show that the economic crisis is far from over and that we must step up to meet our challenges. from an envi perspective, which we are trying to adopt this time, this is primarily about resource use. we need to develop better measurement tools to see how we are using our economic and human resources and our ecological resources. [end in finnish] in the end, in order to make the translation as difficult as possible, i would like to thank the commissioner, the miss, and her new assistant, mrs sallalle for everything that they have done.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, at the beginning of the reporting process, i thought there were good points in the economic policy proposals of the rapporteur. de backer had, in my view, made a correct assessment of the member states' economic problems and also put forward good solutions to them. the problem with the report, however, has been its federalist emphasis on the concentration of power from the member states to the eu institutions from the outset. in particular, the country-specific recommendations have been made more binding, even at the risk of penalties. this was to be expected, because ever since the european semester was launched, it was feared that this would be the same as the eu's federalist development. first, a looser arrangement is created under which the new power is accepted and accepted in the member states, but once the arrangement is established, this power is tightened. the federalist nature of the report was further underlined by the desire to create a single common representation for the euro area in international economic policy forums. the report also sought to include a kind of pre-approval of the third pillar of the banking union, which would include a pan-european deposit guarantee. in other words, this report is intended to promote both the strength of the eu and solidarity. the ecr group believes that the economic policy powers of the member states should not be curtailed and that the eu's guidance should be advisory in nature. so, similar to the economic guidelines that the oecd gives to different countries. economic policy is the hard core of politics and it is unthinkable that it should be left to the democratically elected parliaments of the member states to decide. the report is unacceptable to the ecr group, which wants to reduce the burden on the eu and reform it, as far as federalism is concerned. as the negotiations progress, the report's sound economic guidelines have been watered down, leaving us no choice but to vote against the report.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tabled an opinion. - mr. speaker, i have to go. the eu budget is a good tool to create added value when the eu needs it. through programmes like erasmus+, the european youth guarantee and horizon 2020, we can create growth and jobs, but that will not happen if we do not have the funds in the budget. as a result, the eu today has over 23 billion unpaid bills. at the beginning of october, president barroso expressed his concern to the italian presidency about the high number of unpaid bills. a week later, the leaders of the member states meet and express concern that there is no money to pay for the youth guarantee. it's what you might call political schizophrenia. in english that is "political schizophrenia". if you don't give the money and then you ask for more money, then you've probably lost something between your ears. this is not responsible budgeting. this is not responsible politics. we are going to lift the eu out of the political crisis, and then we need some backing from the council as well.
in writing. when politicians spend public money, they should always aim for the highest possible efficiency and benefit for the citizens. the additional annual cost of the two seats is estimated at eur 180 million. the members and staff of the european parliament have broadly supported the move to a single seat. in addition to the financial costs, one seat would also reduce the carbon footprint of the eu parliament, as it could be decided to travel for thousands of officials, representatives and the press on a monthly basis. we are moving increasingly towards an electronic world where services and information are available to everyone. the european parliament has done a great deal to improve its information. you can follow the session from your own terminal, from anywhere. for the time being, this is a matter for the member states to decide. i would urge the political groups in this parliament to seek a solution to the single seat together with the member states.
in writing. - the european parliament allocates about 40% of its budget to agricultural development and the common agricultural policy. the agricultural budget for the current year was about eur 58 billion. it is not a matter of choice as to where the eu budget is allocated. agricultural support must respect sustainable principles - the aim being to guarantee a functioning internal market for agricultural products, to reduce harmful and market-distorting support and to guarantee sufficient income for producers and clean food for consumers. the aid policy must also be ethically sustainable. i do not approve of the use of the common agricultural budget for tobacco production. the compensation for suckler cows received by producers breeding for bullfighting is also totally unfounded. the legitimacy of the common budget among the citizens of the member states is also at stake. for example, common funds should not be used to support tobacco products or bullfighting.
mr president, we may condemn capital punishment as such, yet there is a world of difference between executing a person for murder after due process and killing a person for criticising an ideology or a religion. therefore, we should not discuss the death penalty as a whole. we must rather ask whether it is acceptable to sentence people to any kind of punishment for blasphemy. it is wrong from the point of view of freedom of speech, but also because many barbarian practices such as child marriage are deeply rooted in religion. it is in practice impossible to criticise these practices without criticising their religious foundations. many european countries have their own blasphemy laws. they should be repealed and we should set an example to the rest of the world.
mr president, people who join isis, or blow up buses and trains in europe for that matter, are not generally uneducated, unemployed victims of discrimination. they are people driven by ideology and faith. we must pay attention to what contributes to the radicalisation of second-generation muslim immigrants in europe. it has been revealed in recent years in several european countries that muslim fundamentalists have infiltrated or taken over public schools, mosques and immigrant organisations and used them for preaching jihad, hatred and violence. muslim clerics who are banned even in islamic countries are free to operate and preach in europe. this low-intensity jihadism is one contributing factor in radicalisation, and it seems clear that our tolerance and cultural relativism are being abused in a very cynical manner.
rapporteur. - mr president, in april this year 30 agencies were granted discharge for the implementation of 2012. parliament, however, postponed the discharge for the director of berec, the body of european regulators for electronic communications. the problem with berec last spring was not one major thing, but several smaller issues that when taken together showed significant shortcomings in the office’s administrative culture. budgetary planning, recruitment, internal controls and procurement were all issues that parliament demanded be addressed. the key arguments for postponing the granting of the discharge until now were the following: the committed appropriations carried over did not correspond to legal commitments; and difficulties in the planning and/or implementation of the body’s activities, as the carryovers for 2012 were mostly related to delayed recruitment and the absence of an effective policy to ensure the timely presentation and reimbursement of mission costs. there was considerable room for improvement regarding the preparation, execution and documentation of procurement procedures. recruitment procedures examined showed significant shortcomings and a number of outstanding issues as regards the internal controls were also found. but since april, the berec office got a new administrative manager and during the summer the agency took action to solve the remaining problems. the court of auditors evaluated the measures taken in its report published during the summer. normally the court reports would only be available in september, but since berec specifically requested early publication the report was published in july. i can tell you that it was very positive reading. most of the issues were addressed and have been solved. in fact out of the 13 comments that the european court of auditors had in both, four of them in 2011 and nine in 2012, 10 have been completed, one is partly completed and two are ongoing. in the case of the two issues that are still ongoing, the office has taken measures and the court points out that there is significant improvement in both areas, so we can expect swift correction to this as well. all in all i can say that postponing the discharge last spring was indeed called for, it was necessary, it was justified, because the number of problems was so high, but berec has now acted and has acted swiftly and in a thorough manner to make up for its shortcomings.
rapporteur. - mr president, while not in any way overlooking the importance of the council discharge, i will still concentrate on the agencies because that was my role in the procedure this time. the european union agencies have an extremely important role to play. they impact directly on the daily lives of our citizens and they perform important tasks. they perform technical, scientific and supervisory tasks helping the union institutions. but even more important, from the budgetary control perspective, is that these agencies, which now number over thirty, function properly and efficiently. in order for this to happen the agencies should seek and deploy best practices. the combined budgetary impact of the decentralised eu agencies is almost eur 1 billion per year. so the efficient and prudent operation of these agencies is not irrelevant at all to eu taxpayers. and it is not just budgetary discipline and solid planning that we in the committee on budgetary control are interested in. it is about potential conflicts of interest; it is about procurement and contract management; it is about lack of transparency and rigour in recruitment. it is also about excessively high carry-overs and troubles in verifying grant transactions. to sum it up, this is about looking after the eu taxpayers’ money, seeing too that our common resources are used wisely. it is all this that makes the discharge process really important for all of us. and it is that which makes me so happy tonight to conclude this debate on my behalf by noting that this particular agency, berec, now deserves our discharge. last, but certainly not least, i am really happy and satisfied to see the council here in this chamber tonight.
the question of the blue card. i want to check if i heard right. did you say that the russian economy is doing very well and did you think that the european parliament should remain silent about human rights violations in russia? did i hear you correctly?
the author. - mr president, the council decided to lift the restrictions on arms exports to uzbekistan some years ago, in 2009 and 2010, precisely because it considered that this would be part of the effort to open up uzbekistan and strengthen its human rights and democratic development. we can now say that those of us who warned of this situation back then were right. no substantial improvement has occurred. this has been stated on many occasions by un human rights activists. unfortunately, this is also evidenced by the refusal of the uzbek government to cooperate with a number of un human rights actors. i think it is the duty of the european parliament to raise the issue of political prisoners. as you can see, this joint resolution has a somewhat unusually long list of names, because we want to talk about people who are real people and who are suffering. the uzbek government is known for not wanting international independent scrutiny of the andizan massacre that took place in 2005. we know that many of these political prisoners are still in prison because of it. the uzbek government also refuses to discuss, for example, the end of torture. it's clear we need to intervene in this situation.
mr president, fortunately, the european parliament and the world are now aware of the shocking events in mexico. that great country has been caught in a cycle of violence almost beyond comprehension. students disappear, people get killed. this is totally unacceptable! in 2010, finnish human rights defenders jyri jaakkola and bety cariño were killed and this matter has still not been solved, although our ex-colleague satu hassi has tried hard to influence the authorities even on the spot. i think that the european union must now act and stand with the demonstrators outside this house and with the entire mexican people in their fight against violence, drug dictatorships, dictators and others.
mr president, the tax debate we are having is very necessary. we know that the eu countries have tax systems which are often perceived by citizens as very unfair, even though they are legal in themselves. we have a saying in finland that what is not just and fair cannot be law. so laws that are considered unjust must be able to be changed. it is great that the european commission is now accelerating the automatic exchange of information. it is very important to increase tax transparency. i would also like to encourage the commission in its work on the harmonization of tax bases. i do not believe, and i do not think it is a good idea, that the level of taxation should be harmonised at eu level, but it is important that we tax the same sources. this means that the tax base would be as uniform as possible. it would increase the level of competition.
madam president, first of all let me thank the european court of auditors and congratulate them. the annual report for the fiscal year 2013 sheds more light on the subject and creates more discussion than ever. according to the eca, the overall error rate was 4.7% and, if the corrective measures which have already been implemented are taken into account, it was 6.3%. this is totally unacceptable. but i am afraid that what is actually more important is the quality, not the numbers. to give just one example of the reliability of the information the member states are giving the commission, the error rate in structural policy is – according to the commission – just 2.8%. but, hang on, no, take a closer look – like the court of auditors did – and it is a whopping 6.9%. so one of the valuable observations in this report is that, in most cases, the national authorities in the member states did have sufficient information to begin with. we have to fix this. the trail of auditing has to exist all the way down to programme level. for this to happen, we need full transparency of the information already available and simplification of the rules. with these we can concentrate – and we need to concentrate – on what commissioner georgieva said when the eca annual report was presented to our committee ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. turkey has not acted correctly in continuing its seismic research and military presence in the economic zone of the republic of cyprus. on the other hand, the republic of cyprus has not accepted confidence-building proposals such as joint commissions or exchanges of information between communities before the reunification of the island. the delicate situation in the eastern mediterranean does not need any further escalation of conflict. the eu's action must therefore contribute to the swift and smooth resumption of the reunification negotiations - the most important thing for a lasting peace and a future for the islanders.
mr president, while some citizens of the member states of the european union are skeptical of the european union, the best proof that the european union has a pull is in the eastern partnership countries, which are free to choose the path towards europe. today, by ratifying this association agreement with moldova, we are also supporting moldova in pursuing the reforms that will ensure that it is truly aligned with european legislation. i would like to thank commissioner hahn for mentioning this principle of 'more for more', which means that we must also support the progress of good governance, the modernisation of the judiciary and the transformation of law enforcement authorities to the level of modern society. parliamentary elections are due to be held in moldova at the end of this month. i would like to thank mr šoltes for taking on this role of chief observer. this election is of great importance because we can also help moldova to stabilise its very, very delicate situation. i would also like to say, as mr šoltes has done, that it would be wrong not to raise the question of energy security at this time. i would urge the people's party to vote in favour of the paragraph which says that moldova should strive to improve its energy efficiency and move towards renewable energy sources. because if there is something that unites us in europe, in the eastern partnership countries, but also in the european union, it is precisely this energy security, and why should we not now emphasize this in our report. mr president, this is a very important day, because it also allows us to examine the impact of these association agreements on trade and the economy between the eastern partnership countries. we are in the process of having a discussion on this subject within euronest.
for the alde group mr president, the alde group welcomes the stier report in the sense that it includes all the issues that we consider important. on the other hand, the report is too broad and too detailed. it became an even worse "december" than the report of the open working group at the un, which contains 17 development policy objectives. on behalf of my group, i proposed that the new sdgs be clustered around five main development policy objectives: eradicating poverty and combating inequality; economic sustainability; environmental sustainability; social sustainability; and global partnership. this proposal was taken into account in the final compromise. i hope that the council and the commission will take this idea forward. the new targets will be a christmas tree, but they'll need a trunk and branches to hang decorations on. this is how we can make development policy more dynamic and effective. the report, which is based on almost 500 amendments, is not balanced. some goals have been given more weight than others. the committee on the environment has not delivered its opinion, and the weight of environmental issues is too low. the amendments proposed by the alde group partially addressed this shortcoming. the report stresses the need for consistency in development policy and the universality of development policy. development policy objectives must be formulated in such a way that they can and should be implemented equally in both developing and developed countries. in parliament, all the committees must study the new objectives to be set at the un next autumn and ensure that they are also implemented in the union and its member states.
mr. president, thank you for this. i would just like to stress how important it is that the european union supports such a human rights-based approach, and the report by mr stiller is a very good example of how this can be done. i would particularly like to ask you to remember that the rights of women and girls, including the right of women and girls to determine their own bodies, are also fundamental human rights, and i would draw your attention to paragraphs 28 and 58 so that this balance is not altered, as they say.
in writing. i come from finland, which is a big country. more than 338,000 square kilometers contain many wonderful areas. in the current difficult economic climate, keeping all regions alive can be challenging, but in the longer term, it is of paramount importance. cohesion policy is an investment policy whose importance is increasingly evident in times of crisis. this is also known in eastern and northern finland, where cohesion policy plays an important role in the development of the regions. it has been great to see how, for example, north karelia has invested in green growth. it is very regrettable that the implementation of cohesion policy is currently stalled. it is of the utmost importance that these programmes are launched as soon as possible. cohesion policy has a very important role to play in achieving the 2020 targets. i am glad that the member states have also just recognised this and commissioner cretu also promised to do everything possible to speed up the process. however, the question arises whether there are countries which do not fully understand the possibilities of cohesion policy, otherwise it is difficult to understand the delay. i don't want to make it a habit to push deadlines. it is now time to do everything we can to ensure that cohesion policy is implemented smoothly. europe must be brought into the path of sustainable growth and cohesion policy must be harnessed to make its own important contribution to this.
in writing. the free movement of citizens within the european union is one of the eu's most important fundamental rights and has strong support from citizens. the possibility of moving across borders in search of work is an opportunity which we should be making much more of in the european union. at the same time as we suffer from high unemployment, there are two million jobs open in the eu. in addition, a large number of firms report difficulties in finding the skills they need. we should encourage people to apply for jobs across europe. for example, the annual mobility of citizens in the usa is ten times that of the eu, and this is also the reason for the strong economic growth in the usa. the free movement of labour increases the chances of each individual finding a job, helps businesses to find the labour they need and thus strengthens economic growth in europe as a whole.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. you could actually start this speech with a reference to today's distinguished guest. in the latin mass, there's a line that goes like this: libera nos a malo deliver us from evil and the following question is therefore about: what's wrong with this place? i think the evil we saw when the commission came in two minutes before midnight on monday last week, i think the evil in this context is the council's inability to agree within itself. it is a serious institutional problem and i would urge the current president of the council to seriously consider how the council is actually improving its decisionmaking process, because the decisionmaking process we were subjected to during the conciliation negotiations is an impossibility: we're gonna get to a conference room and we're gonna have to wait there for two hours. you don't get, as they say in a bit of vulgar language, the butt out of the saddle. and when you don't get the rear end out of the way in a european context, things go wrong. and then i'm going to turn to another participant in this long discussion, georgieva kristalina ivanova. i think that's how you pronounce it in bulgarian. you made a very strong impression on us, but you have a big problem ahead of you. while we are trying to decide on this year's supplementary budgets and next year's budget, you have the perhaps ungrateful task of finding money for president juncker's budget of 300 billion. i would like to say that the democratic rules of the game require that we also take part in deciding this. it is not possible for the commission to secretly save money from a budget which we have approved and use it for the 300 billion, so to speak, that juncker has.
madam president, i am really glad mr arnott spoke just before me so that i can repeat his words and say that i am utmost finnish and i am really pro-european, but i have to say that this whole thing started to go in the wrong direction from the very beginning. this is not a cookie jar we are talking about. you cannot put a cookie in this jar and then just take it away and say, no, i do not want to put it there, or that you want to put in a cookie and then you want to take something out which does not belong to you. you always want to take precisely the cookie from the jar that you think that you deserve. as a matter of fact i remember my fifth birthday. i had modest little presents, and there was this one red plastic fire truck. when it was time for the parents to pick up the kids and the party was over, the kid who gave it to me took the fire truck from me and she said, ʽi don’t want to give this to you after all. i want to take it homeʼ, and she took it home. this is not a five year old’s birthday party we are talking about. for crying out loud! the member states could not get their act together. the next time round the commission will probably have a proposal not much different from the one they had just a few days or weeks ago. they will have pretty much the same thing, and we have to get our act together because, as a matter of fact, the member states were there when these commitments were agreed upon.
mr president, during the first eight months of this year almost 120 000 irregular migrants crossed the mediterranean between libya and italy. that was almost six times more than in 2013. the mare nostrum operation dramatically increased these numbers and also the number of tragedies. despite the risks, the sea journey remains a very attractive option for migrants, because once you make it to europe it is very likely that you will get a residence permit of some kind and be entitled to family reunification, even if you do not meet the criteria for asylum. we need to address the pull factors, the rules concerning secondary protection, family reunification and social benefits. a message must be sent that risking your life and paying the smugglers is not worth it and will not be rewarded. of course, such measures must be coordinated and union-wide. last year, sweden received twice as many asylum applications as italy. germany received five times as many. this kind of asylum shopping is against the principles of the dublin mechanism and it undermines the acceptability of the schengen area. we need a responsible, long-term strategy. opening new legal routes to europe is not a solution, because european societies cannot indefinitely afford this kind of immigration, be it legal or illegal.
mr president, ....the old osh strategy in the 2012 dimension, and it worked. we have information that during that period it was possible to reduce by almost 30% the number of absences of more than three days and the number of occupational accidents. the new strategic framework has now been set, and we know that the objectives in europe are longer-term and that to achieve them genuinely we also need a higher retirement target, a safe working life. it is part of european competitiveness and cannot be economically underestimated. i would like to hear from the commissioner how you intend to put that strategy framework into practice. and i hope that you will take active measures on a wider scale when the ttip is being discussed, when the refit is being discussed, which is of concern to people interested in occupational safety and health. it would be great if you could say today that you would like to put this strategy framework into practice and put the full strategy into effect, as it was before 2012.
this conversation is over. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is an oral question to the commission on the implementation of the directive on equal treatment in employment. i give the floor to the rapporteur, ms marita ulvskog, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000074/2014) (2014/2862 ((rsp)) (b8-0033/2014).
ms morvai, as i said, the debate has been closed and we now move on to the next debate. we are seriously running over time because of earlier delays. we have to be rigorous with the speaking time, and i divide the speaking time as equally as humanly possible. written statements (rule 162)
the commission statement on the assessment of the stress tests on banks (2014/2977 ((rsp)) is attached as a further item on the agenda.
this conversation is over. written declarations (rule 162)
the following joint debate is scheduled: on the report by kay swinburne, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the powers of the european central bank to impose sanctions (10896/2014 - c8-0090/2014 - 2014/0807 ((cns)) (a8-0028/2014) and on the report by roberto gualtieri, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the powers of the european central bank to collect statistical information (11200/2014 - c8-0109/2014 - 2014/0808 ((cns)) (a8-0027/2014).
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on wednesday 26 november 2014. written declarations (rule 162)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, whenever we talk about climate negotiations, the mood is one of hope and despair. the global climate crisis should be our priority here in parliament, but clearly we are afraid. we fear the logic of market capitalism, which always moves production to the cheapest and least regulated places. and i'm not the only one who's started to think that the climate crisis is not about carbon or carbon dioxide at all, but pure market capitalism. to combat climate change, we need to break out of the race of the market economy towards destruction. we know what we have to do, but we're making very little progress. it is not enough to send 'signals' from the lima meeting, we need a real mega-politics of ambition and a sincere commitment to our environment. i really hope that the commission and the whole eu delegation will be as constructive and forward-looking as possible in lima, because a binding global climate agreement in paris next year is a necessity for the whole world. our credibility depends on the ambition of our own actions. as transport coordinator, i call on all my colleagues in transport to work together to build an ambitious eu action plan that also makes the european transport system truly more energy efficient and sustainable. sustainable growth, sound policies, will help us to protect the environment and create the new jobs we need throughout europe.
in writing. harmful emissions to the atmosphere are increasing cumulatively. to keep global warming below two degrees during the next century, urgent action is needed to reduce greenhouse gases. the longer we delay the decision to reduce emissions significantly, the more expensive it will be to keep below 2 degrees. the parliament's approach to the international climate negotiations is good and ambitious. this week's policy statement calls for internationally binding emissions targets to achieve net-zero global carbon dioxide emissions and fossil fuel use by 2050. the nations of the world will next be at the negotiating table in december in lima and next year in paris. the european union has committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. climate change also requires the biggest polluters china and the united states produce 45% of global greenhouse gas emissions. the promise of a successful outcome to next year's negotiations is that these countries have committed themselves to reducing their own emissions. politically, these commitments are significant but insufficient to mitigate climate change.
it is very good, mr president, that a comprehensive resolution on the digital single market has been prepared. we have a lot of opportunities in europe for digital services. they bring us significant new business and economic growth and also improve productivity. we know that the population is ageing throughout europe and it is therefore useful to be able to automate many services. they are often also the most comfortable for the user. digital technology also enables us to take the environment into account. however, i am surprised and criticise the paragraph in this resolution which calls for a distinction between the two types of business in the case of search engines. we all know that it is above all google, which is a very popular search engine in europe. we know that we have a free market and that citizens have the choice of yahoo, bing, yandex or baidu. there are many different search engines and machines, and i do not like the fact that the european parliament is sending a message like this. already, google has been shown that it's important to distinguish commercial content from other content.
mr president, it is very good that the commission is drawing attention to the malnutrition of children, which is not only malnutrition but also a lack of micronutrients. indeed, we know that the intellectual development of children under five is also hindered if they do not get enough of the essential micronutrients in their food. unicef, for example, has taken this very seriously and has taken action. indeed, as the commissioner says, the eu can also act through the un agencies to promote this. it is largely a question of the shift towards more one-sided farming. the greens have therefore tabled an amendment which stresses the importance of an agro-ecological approach. it's also been a message from the un special rapporteur. it is a question of the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, and that the european union is able to take action in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. i would also like to draw attention to the subject which mr michel also touched on, namely the question of land grazing. we should be able to examine how the european union's free trade agreements with developing countries actually affect the fact that large companies are increasingly taking over large areas of agricultural land from developing country governments, which in turn reduce the opportunities for small farmers. we'd like to have this investigated. the world agricultural organization (fao) has drawn up good practice guidelines, voluntary guidelines, and i hope that they will gradually become binding, so that the needs of the poor, the majority of the world's population, can be taken into account and not sacrificed to the big companies.
mr president, this resolution is important, and the smallest step forward in the fight against malnutrition is indeed important. i'd ask the same question as representative glezos, why is this happening? and there's been a lot of analysis on that, but i want to add one reason, that one of the troubling problems in africa, for example, is the so-called land grabbing phenomenon, where rich arab countries and multinational companies buy agricultural land because they know that the land is not growing, but more and more agricultural land is needed, and when they get their hands on these lands, they also dictate what is produced, how it is produced, and in this way small farms suffer and this leads in part to the downward pressure on the agricultural sector in africa. isn't this colonialism, or rather neo-colonialism at its worst? i think the commission should take this land grabbing very seriously in its african policy.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, pakistan is an important partner for europe, as mr weidenholzer said, and therefore we must speak plainly to our partners and friends. and now we say to pakistan directly, repeal these blasphemous laws, they have clearly led to oppression, discrimination and public humiliation. and they affect christians, many other religious minorities, certainly muslims as well. the pakistani authorities have failed in this task despite repeated calls for correction from the international community, the un, the european parliament and other international actors. pakistan must now address these basic issues. where does this injustice come from, and we really ask that the european union discuss these problems caused by blasphemers with the pakistani authorities.
in writing. - member states lose a trillion or a thousand billion euros a year in unfair tax competition and tax avoidance. no longer do we have to ask where the money goes in this time of great wealth: it is literally in the ass of the gentlemen. at the same time, public debt is rising, services are being cut, the burden on citizens is increasing and the ability to pay taxes is being demanded most from those with the least. this is leading to a serious social crisis throughout europe. the requirements must be directed specifically at those who are able to pay the tax. the question now is whether this commission can target its criminal activities against those who really need to be targeted. or will the people continue to be humbled without being mistaken, without paying any compensation to the real criminals in this world? each of you knows that the left in europe did not support juncker as president of the commission. one of the most important reasons was his background as prime minister of luxembourg, the largest tax haven in europe. to pursue a strong policy of discipline for others when the practices and morality of one's own country cannot withstand the light of day. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the far right has now assembled its own list of names, but their target is to overthrow juncker alone. there's no point in doing anything about a sick tax system. tax evasion and tax havens are not just a problem in luxembourg, but the far right does not want to remember the problems in, for example, england, because a large number of them come from there. since the motion of censure was blank, i voted blank.
madam president, if the commission work programme is identical to the leaked paper we have already seen, then the headline of the third point includes a promise of – and i quote – ‘a forward-looking climate change policy’. but to judge how forward-looking this issue is we should take a short look at history. almost eight years ago the eu decided, as a step towards the then upcoming copenhagen conference, on the climate and energy package. the fuel quality directive is the only law from this package that has not been implemented. considering the fact that 2020 is already almost round the corner and that we are approaching the paris conference next year, europe needs a swift and strong implementation of this directive in order to be able to move forward towards the leading low-carbon society it intends to be. in order to be meaningful, a life-cycle approach has to be based on accounting that is accurate and possible. proper accounting for life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions is therefore crucial to achieving this. europe is already lagging behind its targets and investments are at a standstill. developing policies and markets for highly greenhouse-gas-intensive fuels will not be the solution for europe’s need.
in writing. the eu fuel quality directive is currently the most important eu tool to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport. transport emissions depend on the raw materials from which the fuel is made. in order to switch to lower carbon intensity oil forms in fuel production, the reporting shall be based on the intensity value of each raw material form used. the commission's proposal that only the average over time of the various raw materials used should be reported means in practice that there is no incentive to discontinue the use of highly polluting forms of oil, such as canadian oil sands. in order to reduce transport emissions in the eu, all means must be used to increase incentives for the production of cleaner and lower carbon fuels.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, europe is not, and i hope will not be, a land of cheap manufacturing. our strength in competition has always been based on maintaining professional skills, respect for working conditions and safe and environmentally regulated conditions. safety and environmental regulation already has a long tradition and i hope that this tradition can be extended to social issues in working life and transport. social dumping is not an appropriate and acceptable practice in europe or anywhere in the world. if we are to continue to improve both road safety and social conditions, we must pay particular attention to these issues. substandard working conditions, forged driving licences, illegal cabotage and underpayment are already among us. we have to act, we can't just wait! that is why the commission is still getting a homework assignment.
mr president, the debate here has been quite negative. it is understandable, of course, that the main focus here has been on problems, because we want to improve the commission's proposal. this is a serious matter, a list of serious violations. but i would like to remind all of us that the very objective of free movement of people, goods and services within the european union is a very important objective. it is worth all of our efforts. but that requires that we have common rules, which can also be monitored. here, the concern for road safety has been very strong. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road users is not compromised by the lack of safety standards. it is important that we have common rules on road safety, which are strictly enforced throughout europe. it is also justified that some countries may have their own provisions. for example, i myself come from northern europe and so in winter conditions the cold weather justifies the demands of northern european countries for stricter tyre requirements for trailers. it's about traffic safety. it is equally important to ensure that we do not condone tax evasion and the grey economy. we know that it is easily linked to transport operations, the transport of goods. in fact, the transport operators themselves strongly support the idea of increasing this control. according to a recent survey in finland, 90% of transport operators rated the annual controls on the payment of taxes as very good.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the aim of the so-called two-pack and six-pack was to stabilise our economic and financial system. and the reasons for these compulsions were also obvious. the countries of europe had almost systematically lived beyond their means when the happy 30 years after world war ii ended. politicians in all countries joined together after that in the hope that the happy times would return. it did not, and instead, it went into debt, creating a debt burden that would be unsustainable in the long run. at the same time, technological development and globalisation took place, which in a very short period of time gave banks and the financial world an advantage that rudolf hilferding, when he wrote das finanzkapital in 1910, could hardly have imagined. the question that we're all struggling with now, in one way or another, is how do we move forward?
ms fajon, it sounds like the commission press room in the good old days.
i give the floor to first vice-president frans timmermans who is responsible for better regulation. our regulation is a maximum of five minutes. you have a great chance to practise what you preach and i trust no injury time. (end of catch-the-eye procedure)
mr buonanno, that is not appropriate behaviour in parliament. please remove the banner.
president juncker, i will convey your concerns about the working procedures and openness and transparency to the bureau and to the conference of presidents. the debate is closed. the vote will take place in january. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, i thought today i would do something very un-finnish, which is to say thank you. thank you very much, eider. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. i'd also like to thank our advisors and counselors, they've been working long hours. the italian presidency also deserves our thanks for ensuring a good outcome. i would like to thank the council in particular for its long and tireless resistance. as you know very well, the word 'council' is translated in russian as 'agree'. thank you for having shown during the years really soviet stubbornness that makes this small victory so much sweeter.
mr president, the agreement on the 2015 budget was of course good news in itself. thank you to all of you who have it. it is good that the council understood how to back down from its most rigid positions and that the final collapse of the budget was avoided. however, there was eventually some understanding of the problem of the deficit among the member states. it's a great thing that the consistent lines we ran carried us all the way to the finish. the horizon programme, research projects and erasmus exchange were successfully secured for the time being, and the focus of the solution was on financing for growth. so we can accept this solution. but i'm sorry i can't break into any high places. there were too many signs that we are facing an even worse budgetary crisis next year. so we can only conclude that nothing is bad for the goose. the member states tried to pursue a selfish policy to the end. the main dispute over the flexibility instruments and the payment ceiling was swept under the carpet, where it will be found again in the budget negotiations next autumn. if the member states had a little more understanding of the importance of this union as a project for all of us, there would certainly be a little less selfishness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the question of the blue card. mr president, the member claimed that the commission's proposals and the investment programme are the same as before. your speech was exactly what we've heard from your group before, which is mockery and bad humor. for example, instead of proposing an investment programme, they propose to participate in a horse race. but there's something new about you. there's a new letter in the group's name. so i ask you, what is your alternative? you are systematically opposing all the options that are being put forward for the rise of europe. what's your alternative?
mr president, europe needs jobs and growth. this requires investment, particularly private investment. in this sense, the investment programme of president juncker is welcome. at the same time, it must be remembered that europe must be reformed in order to be able to attract investment. this requires a sound business environment and the completion of the internal market, in particular the digital and services internal market. there are growth spurts in many industries. investment must be directed in particular to the bioeconomy, telecommunications and the arctic. to speed up these reforms, member states must implement structural reforms. this is particularly important in the large member states of france and italy. the stability and growth pact must not be scrapped. at the same time, germany must use its flexibility to increase investment. the european central bank must also give a real boost to the european economy, if not by christmas, then by the new year's resolution at the latest. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – mr papadimoulis, thank you for the question. as we know, greece has had difficult and tough times. now it is growing again. i have no intention of interfering in the domestic politics of greece. however, my understanding is that both the syriza party and mr tsipras are committed to the membership of greece in the eurozone. they are very clearly committed to that and that is what counts. i also understand that greece’s very heavy debt burden has to be somehow restructured and rearranged, for instance by prolonging the maturity of the loans, not necessarily by touching the capital.
in writing. - mr president, the juncker commission is now focusing strongly in its work programme on stable regulation and a predictable operating environment for businesses. the vote on the implementation of this directive on the quality of fuels was about exactly the same thing. the fuel quality directive aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 6% by 2020. this is a good goal and a strong signal to biofuel companies: your investment has paid off and together we can make a contribution to climate protection. if we had accepted the envi proposal, we would have wiped out five years of preparatory work, which has produced a balanced result. this directive and its content have received wide support both in the member states and among stakeholders. companies producing biofuels for transport need to be assured of their operating and investment environment. this should also be borne in mind in future votes on this sector of industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state as a principled step in the right direction. recognition of the palestinian state, its people and its borders, and the end of the occupation is a long-overdue international obligation and a positive step towards peace. member states must now formally recognise and thus protect the space of the palestinian state within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as the capital. palestinian recognition is established in un resolutions and by a number of the national parliaments of eu member states have called on their respective governments to recognize. the palestinian people's right to self-determination has been enshrined in international resolutions for 66 years. we call on all parties to refrain from any action which may undermine the viability and the prospects of the two-state solution. therefore, settlements must end, the apartheid wall must be dismantled. attacks on holy sites along with the demolition of palestinian property must stop immediately. the meps instructed the president of the european parliament to forward this resolution to the european council, the european commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the european commission, the governments and parliaments of the member states, the secretary-general of the united nations, the middle east quartet envoy, the knesset and the government of israel, the president of the palestinian authority and the palestinian legislative council.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. - madam president, georgia has been a reliable partner and pursued closer political and economic ties with the european union, despite significant pressure from russia. for a small state like georgia, the choice of free trade has served the country well. in the last decade, foreign trade turnover has increased five- to six-fold. the growth has been driven by the liberal trade regime of georgia. moreover, as the commissioner said, following the provisional application of the dcfta as of september, the preliminary statistics indicate a close to 50% increase in georgia’s exports to the eu, thus improving its trade balance with the union. in fact, of our eastern partners, georgia has done the most in reforming its economy and deserves this agreement and its ratification. the next step is implementation. we support georgia in this endeavour and wish it the best of success.
mr president, we can congratulate georgia on making a free choice and as many as 69% of georgians want an association agreement to be concluded. we have almost a consensus in this house that this is what we really want to do. the european union is also committed to the implementation of the un charter on the rights of persons with disabilities. all charges must be free from the political process and i believe that georgia also wants to move in this direction. we want to be concerned about the trade relations which may be disturbed because of the different decisions taken by different countries in this region. some are turning to the european union, others to the eurasian economic union. our task is to ensure that trade can continue in different directions with georgia as well. finally, i would like to say that now that there have been some cracks in the intergovernmental cooperation in the georgian political process recently, perhaps this will provide an opportunity for all the pro-european forces in the government and the opposition to engage in a new kind of cooperation.
