mr president, during the conference of presidents, the group of the european people's party drew your attention to the fact that our parliament was not respecting article 15 of the treaty because, on 19 and 20 december 2013, there was a european council which dealt with defence and the banking union. you know that article 15 of the treaty on european union requires the president of the european council to submit a report to the president of the european parliament after each meeting of the european council. so far, you have organised, in conjunction with the conference of presidents, enlarged conferences of presidents which, in my view, are illegal because they do not respect the treaty. but then, as they say in corrèze, today it's "the hut that falls on the dog" because there is nothing at all. we drew your attention to this during the conference of presidents and you said, mr president, 'i am taking note of this and will follow up.' i would like to know what action is being taken on this proposal. are we going to violate article 15 of the treaty again? finally, will we have any hope of having debates with the president of the european council in the plenary? i have noticed that since the establishment of this stable presidency we have had far fewer debates with our heads of state or government. the european council is an institution - you are speaking in it, mr president - with which we would like to debate with the representatives of the heads of state or government.
member of the commission. − mr president, mr perello rodriguez asked the commission to look into new ways of financing ccs. we are doing that, but actually several possibilities for financing this technology already exist in the eu. i mentioned some of them in my opening remarks. it is fair to say that the problem here is not a lack of eu funding; the problem has been that a number of member states have either been slow in prioritising between different ccs demonstration projects and/or have come up with inadequate national co-financing. with regard to the discussion about whether we are putting too much emphasis on ccs and what it can and cannot do, i would agree with those who warn that we should not think it can make a disproportionately big contribution. we should not overestimate it. but i would also say that those of us who want ambitious climate policies have to ask ourselves whether we can really afford to kill off potentially interesting technologies in their infancy. i do not think we can. i think we will need all the technologies we can come up with. that is why it basically depends on whether the eu gets its act together in developing this technology and others. we must explore the realistic potential; we need to know the realistic potential, including on a large scale. that is the first thing that needs to be addressed when we talk about ccs. then, of course, we need to recognise that it is only one element in a range of technologies and a range of things on our to-do list when it comes to reducing the carbon footprint.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank mr gerbrandy and all the members of the european parliament. i am grateful for your initiative to bring the issue of wildlife trafficking to the attention of parliament and the other institutions. the world is facing a dramatic surge in wildlife trafficking, which has become one of the most profitable criminal activities at global level. it threatens the survival of some emblematic species, damages biodiversity and undermines the development and stability of many countries. we will begin to tackle this successfully only if there is a joint international effort involving source, transit and destination countries. the european union has been working towards this for some time, both domestically and through cites, the international convention that regulates trade in endangered species. i take this opportunity to let you know that the commission has recently tabled a proposal for the european union finally to become a full party to cites. we hope parliament will be able to give its consent before the elections. we also raise the question of wildlife trafficking in our bilateral cooperation exchanges. just last summer, for example, i signed a cooperation agreement on wildlife trafficking with my chinese counterpart, and we are also supporting the efforts of cites and 31 african elephant-range states with extra funding from the 10th european development fund (edf). in december we announced eur 12.3 million for the new ‘mikes’ project. mikes stands for ‘minimising the illegal killing of elephants and other endangered species’. it will develop law enforcement, monitoring, patrol and emergency response capacities to fight illegal killing and international trade in elephants and other species. however, we have to face the fact that the trends are against us. demand for wildlife products in asia is now so big that the business is highly lucrative. for example, rhino horn is more expensive than cocaine and gold; at the same time, it is easy to smuggle, the risk of detection is very low, and sanctions, if imposed, are often not sufficient to act as a deterrent. ivory trafficking has boomed and is now affecting the whole continent of africa. the european union itself is a market and a transit point for illegal wildlife products. for many countries, wildlife crime is a threat to development. corruption facilitates trafficking, and large-scale organised crime undermines weak state structures and threatens peace and stability. to begin to turn this situation around, we need much greater political recognition of the threat that wildlife trafficking represents. this needs to go far beyond environmental circles: foreign ministers, organised-crime and development experts, police and customs, the judiciary, ngos and the private sector all have an important role to play. your draft resolution addresses many of the key issues at stake and calls for enhanced action. a number of member states and the united states of america have recently announced that they will increase their political engagement against wildlife trafficking. the commission is working on a set of ideas for how the european union could develop a more effective approach in the fight against wildlife trafficking. we will present those ideas, including in relation to opportunities offered by the new edf, next month in a commission communication to parliament and the member states, on which i am taking the lead together with commissioner malmström and in close cooperation with other commissioners, notably commissioner piebalgs. the communication will draw attention to the urgency of addressing the global problem of wildlife trafficking more effectively. it takes stock of existing european union measures to support the fight against wildlife trafficking both globally and within the union. finally, it will initiate a debate on the european union’s future approach to wildlife trafficking. the dimensions of the problem, as i indicated earlier, have changed, so new ideas are needed to fight organised wildlife crime, curb demand, address the peace and stability implications and provide for alternative livelihoods for those involved in poaching. we will therefore ask stakeholders for their views as to what has been working well and what has been working less well, and we will explore avenues for more effective action by the european union. in addition to the public consultation, we will organise a conference on 10 april 2014. parliament’s resolution is a very helpful contribution to raising public awareness of the importance of this issue. commissioner malmström and i look forward to the discussion with you and many other stakeholders on potential solutions to ensure that we are up to the challenge of fighting wildlife trafficking effectively.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this oral question and the resolution which we are discussing tonight and which we will be voting on this week, i hope by a very large majority, is a political appeal and response to a serious and growing international problem, as my colleagues have pointed out. the trafficking of wildlife is now the fourth largest trade in the world, behind illicit drugs, human trafficking and arms trafficking. unep and interpol estimate that this crime generates between 18 and 26 billion euros annually. almost two-thirds of forest elephants in central africa were killed between 2002 and 2012 for their ivory for the illegal market. the killing of hundreds of elephants in cameroon in early 2012 by heavily armed gangs from sudan illustrates a dramatic situation. in recent decades, criminal networks have become increasingly aggressive in their search for natural products. tiger teeth, bear bile, rhino horns, bird feathers, shark fins, coral and turtle shells - no species is truly spared from the world's biodiversity pirates. today, the consequences of poaching and illegal wildlife trade go beyond the conservation of biodiversity. they affect the security, governance and integrity of many states and populations. several studies indicate that these activities are fuelling organised crime worldwide, that they are involved in money laundering, corruption, the purchase of weapons of war and the operation of rebel and even terrorist groups. this is a trade that has already reportedly caused over 1,000 deaths among the environmental guards charged with protecting wildlife with repercussions for local populations and entire regions. this crime is becoming nothing less than a serious threat to peace and security. interpol and other international bodies are calling on police forces worldwide to tackle environmental damage, and on all states to strengthen their laws and enforcement of sanctions against these criminal networks. if environmental damage and biodiversity loss have not been enough to move citizens and the international community, things can and must change as we begin 2014. as the european territory is the main transit and destination area for this traffic, the european parliament has taken stock of the challenge and its responsibility. that is the subject of our resolution. the european union must have serious and effective tools. the member states must harmonize their laws and strengthen their customs services. we call on the commission and the council to take action, as a priority on the eu agenda, and for europol to be involved. we call for zero tolerance to effectively combat the scourge of wildlife crime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, technical progress and the globalisation of trade have weakened industrial relations. subcontracting, outsourcing, precariousness, intensification of work and lack of job security have led to a deterioration in working conditions and, above all, in the respect for labour law. we, the environmentally-minded members of parliament, consider that labour inspections are essential to respect for workers and their dignity. we regret the impact of the budgetary costs, which seriously hamper the performance of the inspections' tasks. flexibility is always the same people we ask for it. we, the environmentalists, refuse to be complicit in the downgrading of social rights. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow calls on the european states to strengthen labour inspectorates with more resources, more inspectors, and to guarantee their independence as a guarantee of their effectiveness. to combat unfair competition, including the scourge of false posting of workers, we have been calling since 2011 for the creation of the european labour inspectors' corps. it's a necessity. we must go further: tomorrow we will be calling for a european strategy on health and safety at work, and i thank the rapporteur.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is the failure to comply with existing social legislation that is the cause of social dumping, not europe. violations of the rules on posted workers, for example, demonstrate the need for vigorous inspection. labour inspectorates must therefore have sufficient financial and human resources to carry out their duties effectively. in this report, the european parliament stresses the importance of the independence of labour inspectorates. we must be vigilant. in france, for example, the reform proposed by the minister of labour and employment is criticized by the inspectors' unions because it risks undermining their independence in the balance of power with negligent employers. finally, i support the proposal to set up a european labour inspection platform which will improve cooperation between member states and thus should counteract unfair competition within the european union.
mr president, madam president, thank you for this presidency. as regards social affairs, i must say that the arrival of your presidency has really helped to unblock many of the issues in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. you have shown a quality of listening to the european parliament's requests, which has enabled us to make progress, particularly on the european social fund, including on the issues of taking into account the situation of young people, the link with the youth guarantee, which this european parliament has supported with such determination from the beginning. of course, we were not able to reach agreement on the european social fund's share in the structural funds of cohesion policy. we would have liked to have been able to express our opinion on the need for this social policy to amount to 25% of the overall budget, but for the rest, i think we have reached a good agreement. as regards the directive on the posting of workers, i would also like to thank you for what your presidency has done to unblock this dossier and to reach an agreement in the council which has opened negotiations with the european parliament. you can be sure that we will do everything to conclude this matter before the end of the parliamentary term, even if you have to tell the presidency that succeeds you that, of course, the european parliament will present, on the basis of the mandate given to it by its committee, strong demands which will have to be heard in order for this agreement to be the best possible. a final word, madam president, simply a sign of regret. in the matter of economic and monetary union - in view of the mandate given - in order for us to be able to discuss and bring to life the question of the social dimension of economic and monetary union, it also seems to me that you must indicate to your successors that the way is open and that we must take it on board.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a real pleasure to be debating with you this morning the agreement our institutions have reached on this subject, an agreement which has required more than two years of negotiations. i would like to make it clear that although the consumer programme is often presented as a small programme in view of its budget, less than eur 200 million over the seven years to 2020, it is nevertheless a great responsibility for the union. consumption, i remind you, is 50% of the union's gross domestic product and, in this period when we are looking for growth, it is far from negligible. how has the text evolved since it was tabled by the commission and where are we today? first of all, i would like to thank the commission because its text was a good starting point, but we wanted to give it new and complementary political impetus. in conclusion, and on the substance, i would say that we have essentially made three major changes that have led to three real breakthroughs. first, we have turned this programme towards the future. it is a question of defining the guidelines until 2020 and, to be more specific, i would like to say that in the area of safety, for example, we have strengthened the aspects related to the traceability of products. as far as consumer information is concerned, we have stressed the need for market transparency and the comparability of information and data. in the field of education, we propose to make more intensive and effective use of the possibilities offered by new technologies, online platforms, machine translations, etc. finally, as regards appeals, and god knows how important this is in consumer disputes, we are putting the package on the extrajudicial dispute settlement mechanisms and i am thinking in particular of the introduction of the electronic odr platform, which i believe will offer consumers new possibilities. however, this odr platform for out-of-court online dispute resolution is a major and important project that will have to be realized. secondly, we have strengthened and clarified the type of support to be offered to the actors on the ground, to those who, at the grassroots level, in the territories, in the member states, are working to ensure that this consumer protection is effective. this support will be expressed in the form of training for member states' agents, focusing mainly on risk assessment, increased support for european consumer centres, direct financial means for consumer organisations at european level, because behind these programmes we must recognise the work of the activists, those who are closest to consumers on a daily basis. thirdly, i would say that we have included this programme in the continuity taking into account the economic context of the crisis and the demographic changes in consumer behaviour. with the exponential and spectacular growth of online commerce, with consumers saturated with information, with increasing complexity in decision-making, we wanted, in this context, to highlight the development of reliable online comparison sites for consumers, taking into account not only prices but also the quality of goods and services, because this is essential to be part of the ecological evolution and the rejection of waste, which is indispensable. finally, let me say in conclusion that we have included a point, which was the final point of our discussions, on which we have reached agreement - and i welcome this - on the monitoring and evaluation of this programme. in september 2017, we will make a milestone which will be followed, if necessary, by a legislative proposal to ensure that the second part of the programme is adapted if necessary. so let me conclude by thanking the successive presidencies, in particular the cypriot and lithuanian ones, and also warmly thanking my colleagues the fictitious rapporteurs, and tell you that it is confidence in the markets that we are going to strengthen by guaranteeing and strengthening consumer rights.
member of the commission. − mr president, in my short concluding remarks, i would like to reiterate how warmly i welcome the strong interest of parliament in this important programme. let me thank the rapporteur, mr rochefort, once again for his drive and determination in handling this file over the past two years. this programme can bring strong eu added value and contribute towards making the single market deliver for consumers. now is the time to focus on swift and effective implementation. my services and i have already been working hard to prepare the ground. i count on your continued engagement and support to realise the programme’s objectives as soon as possible for the benefit of european consumers. i look forward with a lot of enthusiasm to the vote that will now take place.
the rapporteur. - commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as many of you have said, given the limited resources of this programme, it cannot do everything. but we will be vigilant, we will be demanding. i thank president harbour for having indicated earlier how much we all need to be mobilized behind this programme. but of course, since consumption is very important in the economic action of the european union, defending the interests of consumers will also be a mission of all the other programmes. and all of you here, my dear colleagues, will also be responsible for defending the interests of consumers when it comes to transport policy, energy policy, health policy. this must become one of our general and common missions. this will also depend on the member states, because consumer protection policy is also a national policy. we are here to complete it, we are here to give it impetus, but it refers to the responsibilities of each of the member states. and it will also depend on the cooperation we manage to establish with third countries, with countries on the other side of the world that produce many of the products we consume here. the level of consumer protection in the european union will depend on how vigilant and demanding we are towards these countries. so, commissioner, your successors and our successors in this parliament must meet no later than september 2017, when the mid-term evaluation report on the consumer programme will be presented and when the objectives and tasks of this indispensable programme will have to be recast, if necessary.
in writing. i voted against the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of lara comi as requested by the austrian rapporteur from the green group.
in writing. this is an initiative report by my political group, the european people's party (epp). in the new programming period of the cohesion funds, regions must concentrate their investments in research, development and innovation (r & d & i) through smart specialisation strategies. i voted in favour of this text because it calls for the networking of centres of excellence for an effective cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. i voted for the winkler report on networking centres of excellence for effective cohesion policy because it will improve interconnections for the benefit of public, economic and political actors.
in writing. the smart specialisation strategy is to network centres of excellence to ensure the effectiveness of european cohesion policy. with this vote, we are therefore encouraging the regions to adopt effective strategies to encourage investment in research, development and innovation. it seems to me particularly important at regional level to involve smes as much as possible in this strategy and thus to encourage the development of their potential.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which relates to the establishment of an effective cohesion policy. i actively support the strategy to ensure that the concepts and means put in place at regional, national and eu level create synergies while increasing the incentives for local, regional or international private investors to invest sustainably.
in writing. france is the sixth scientific power in the world and yet it is only in fifteenth place in terms of innovation. innovation, boldness and anticipation will make our companies, our regions and our country competitive. the deterioration of our position vis-à-vis our main trading partner, germany, and vis-à-vis the major emerging powers must prompt us to react immediately and to develop strategies to regain world markets. in this spirit, the structural funds must help the regions and the country to move towards growth by concentrating investment on ambitious and promising projects. the reform of cohesion policy integrates this approach with the smart specialisation strategy. regions must highlight their strengths and exploit their potential in research, development and innovation. as in the silicon valley near grenoble, we must encourage regions to become centres of excellence and competitiveness and develop new projects. obviously, such an ambition can only emerge by bringing together actors from the world of business, research and academia, and not just the usual institutional actors who are not used to taking risks.
in writing. it is a report that calls for regions to 'smart specialisation', i.e. competition without limits. it is part of the horizon 2020 vision on research, development and innovation, which aims to a large extent to develop knowledge only where it is of interest to the private sector. the 'poles of competitiveness' advocated are part of this logic. it encourages the regions to develop their strengths in certain areas while including civil society as much as possible and asking them to keep in mind the need to address societal challenges such as the fight against unemployment and poverty, the energy transition or reindustrialisation. this report has no legislative value and no substance, it is a liberal manifesto. i vote against it.
in writing. this strategy aims to optimise the use of european funds dedicated to regional policy. it is based on the strengths and comparative advantages of each region, and it will have to invest european funds mainly in these areas. the aim is therefore to exploit the regional potential and thus to conquer areas which can offer high economic added value and create jobs. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. what is meant by "intelligent specialisation"? these are simply national or regional innovation strategies which aim to create a competitive advantage by developing and matching research and innovation strengths with business needs in order to take advantage of new opportunities and market developments, or more simply: to streamline skills as much as possible to get the most out of them. in practice, it is not just a question of betting on innovation at any cost, but of organising it around other priorities, such as the fight against unemployment, poverty or the security of energy supplies. the guidelines set out in this report are in line with this, which is why i supported it by voting in the plenary.
in writing. in some cases, parliament has to decide on an act by the approval procedure. the aim of this report is to clarify this approval procedure, both at the plenary and at committee level. i welcome this clarification and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted for the trzaskowski report on the voting rules and the content of reports in the approval procedure because it is a slight technical change which does not pose any problems.
in writing. - mr trzaskowski's report refers to the approval procedure for association agreements and agreements governing accessions, introduced by the single european act of 1986. today, thanks to the lisbon treaty, the approval procedure is a 'special legislative procedure' within the meaning of article 289 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that in order to make this procedure more transparent and efficient, amendment of rule 81 is necessary.
in writing. this resolution is of no interest. it tends to codify parliamentary practices which themselves were trying to gain a little power for the parliamentary institution, the only institution that was created by direct suffrage. however, it does not in practice restore any parliamentary powers to the institution. it nevertheless never calls into question the current treaty economy which is the pride of the european commission and which mutilates the parliamentary institution. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the principle of subsidiarity. i vote against it.
in writing. as transport is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases, the european union and car manufacturers have undertaken to reduce these emissions gradually. the krahmer report is in line with this and sets an ambitious and reasonable target for new commercial vehicles by 2020: 147g co2 / km. in addition, the target range of between 105g and 120g co2/km by 2025 creates predictability for manufacturers. the compromise is good for both the climate and the car manufacturers, so i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. i voted for the krahmer report on co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles because it will improve the performance of our vehicles while reducing the impact of these vehicles on the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
in writing. this text sets out the modalities needed to achieve the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. it is time to take a more serious approach to reducing co2 emissions from the road transport sector, the second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the eu. i am, however, in favour of avoiding too much legal instability for european industry so as not to damage competitiveness and jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the reduction of co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles. the european union needs to address this issue as failure to determine or implement the modalities would have a detrimental impact on car manufacturers and spare parts suppliers. the latter need certainty about the technology and vehicles needed to meet environmental objectives. this text meets the expectations of the various actors while preserving the environment, and i welcome this compromise.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement, which will encourage the reduction of co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles while preserving the competitiveness of our automotive industry. i am pleased that the already very ambitious 2020 reduction targets have been retained and that the long-term targets are not binding. the european car manufacturers are being hit hard by the economic crisis and it is necessary not to put them at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis their foreign competitors. new tests will also be introduced to measure co2 emissions and fuel consumption more effectively. this will help to inform consumers, including the many smes for whom commercial vehicles are a crucial work tool and a major expense.
in writing. from 2020, vans sold in the european union will have to emit 28% less co2 than current standards. the emission threshold of 147g co2 per km instead of 203g/km today is a widely achievable threshold which should not be a burden for the automotive industry. this objective represents an average of the emissions permitted for each manufacturer, which can offset the emissions of their most polluting models with their own models. beyond the environmental objective, this decision is an opportunity to unleash creative energies and to encourage the automotive industry to develop new models with advanced technology to make it a competitive and innovative industry. this is a major challenge for the sector, which was hit hard by the crisis in 2008. the electric car project developed by renault-nissan and navia, this fully electric automated transport developed by a french company, induct, demonstrates how much france is full of visionary and daring minds. let us therefore ensure that these initiatives are encouraged, valued and exploited, both at eu and national level.
in writing. the text is set in a clearly liberal, productivist and free-trade framework which we know all too well. the rapporteurs could have made the effort to lower the level of emissions for 2020 and not for 2025 and taken the text out of its free-trade box, to actually change the terms. for these reasons, it is difficult to vote without reservation. however, it is very clear that the rapporteurs have shed light on some issues, in particular the false underestimation of co2 emissions from commercial vehicles or the real flaws in the current calculation methods: the answer is clear, the administration will have to rely on a more realistic calculation method, in particular from the international methods seems more reliable. the rapporteur also proposes to take into account the whole life cycle of vehicles, up to recycling. these are coercive measures, not merely declaratory, which may produce real effects, although they are clearly insufficient. i abstain to encourage these good resolutions.
in writing. this report concerns carbon dioxide emissions from new light commercial vehicles. while denouncing the fact that manufacturers underestimate the co2 emissions of their vehicles - which is a good thing - it proposes to confirm the target of 147g co2/km by 2020 and to raise it to between 105 and 120g co2/km by 2025. the report justifies these long delays in particular by the current economic situation which does not allow car manufacturers to make the necessary investments and smes to pay more for these vehicles (these standards resulting in a surcharge of up to 10%). while the strengthening of these thresholds is good news, i regret that the deadlines are so unambitious. the difficult economic situation behind this report is only the consequence of austerity policies that curb investment, which has a direct impact on our health and our environment. however, as the way forward is to tighten up these standards, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. preserving our natural environment is rightly one of the european union's top priorities. we must act now to preserve the vast resources of our planet. this report should therefore be adopted. the co2 reduction targets in this report are ambitious, but achievable. it was important to keep 2020 as the reference year both for feasibility and for the protection of manufacturers. while protecting the environment is imperative, we must bear in mind that, as in the automobile sector, commercial vehicle manufacturers need safety, especially in this time of crisis. so it is important to avoid imposing unrealistic expectations on them. we must take steps and not get bogged down in unrealistic practices.
in writing. as part of the strategy to reduce co2 emissions from light vehicles in 2011, the eu adopted a regulation that targets co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles sold on the european market. the law is similar to the regulations in force for new cars. the new regulation limits co2 emissions to an average of 175 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2017 and aims to limit it to 147 g/km by 2020. 177 amendments were tabled and 4 compromises were supported by the majority of political groups to confirm the will to achieve the 2020 target, adding an additional target for 2025, to achieve 105-120 gco2/km. i welcome the fact that it was adopted by a large majority, because we must bear in mind that this directive also makes it possible, in the second place, through the necessary investments, to reduce fuel consumption, to maintain a first-rate european production, to promote technological innovation while benefiting the environment. this legislation is therefore clearly beneficial both for consumers and for the european automobile industry.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this new european co2 emission standard for light commercial vehicles. they will have to be reduced to 147 gr/co2/km by 2020, compared to 203 gr/co2/km today. this is largely achievable for european manufacturers, who have significantly improved their energy performance year after year, thanks to their r&d efforts and the stimulating legislative framework put in place by parliament. the system also gives them room for manoeuvre, since this is the average emission limit per manufacturer. this will enable manufacturers to produce enough low-emission models to strike the right balance with the most polluting vehicles on the market. this flexible system will also make it possible to offer a diversified range to customers who want products tailored to their needs. it is therefore in the interests of manufacturers, consumers and citizens that the council should follow the reasonable position of our assembly, in line with our ambitious objectives of combating pollution.
in writing. this is the definition of the new consumer policy programme for the period 2014-2020. the aim is to protect the consumer through four priorities: safety, information and education, the right of appeal and compliance with the law. i think that a satisfactory agreement has been reached on this matter, including the inclusion of parliament's request that consumers should have access to price comparison websites. i therefore voted in favour of this report by my colleague, mr robert rochefort.
in writing. i voted in favour of the outcome of the trilogue negotiations on mr rochefort's report on the 2014-2020 consumer programme. the dossier is not a problem at this stage of the negotiations and will be a major issue for consumer protection in the future.
in writing. i support the establishment of the 'consumers' programme for the period 2014-2020, to guarantee a high level of protection for consumers in the european market. in particular, as this report rightly points out, it is legitimate to work towards strengthening consumer rights and remedies in the event of disputes. similarly, the development of bodies for the extrajudicial settlement of disputes is an interesting proposal to meet this objective.
in writing. in the face of the increase in abuses and scams on online shopping sites, the european union has decided to launch a new programme to better inform and protect consumers. the aim is therefore to ensure that citizens fully benefit from the benefits of the single market while limiting disruption. it should be noted that consumer spending represents 56% of eu gdp. the programme, which has a budget of €189 million for the period 2014-2020, therefore aims to strengthen consumer safety, information and education, clarify rights and remedies and enforce legislation. given the number of complaints that meps receive from deceived and discouraged citizens, it will be up to us, mid-way through the process, to ensure that these actions are followed up with effects.
in writing. the proposal aims to ensure that a high level of consumer protection is maintained within the european union and to enable consumers to better assert their rights. it is clear that the account is not there. no criticism is made of the current operation. the report stresses that the main objective is to remove all direct and indirect obstacles to the smooth functioning of the internal market, competitiveness and growth. the consumer protection is off to a bad start. the best way to do this is to help them to 'make sound, informed decisions'. the proposal also envisages allowing the commission to adopt delegated acts on these issues. i vote against it.
in writing. this report is about a commission proposal to put the consumer at the centre of the single market in order to get back to growth. while the report is at first sight rather satisfactory (strengthening consumer protection, transparency for online transactions and financial support for consumer associations in particular), i regret that no criticism is made of the functioning of the internal market. the report also ignores the fact that the liberalization policies implemented over the years have led to a decline in purchasing power, a decline in the general quality of products and a lower level of consumer protection. these pitfalls led me to abstain in the vote.
in writing. the new 'consumers' programme aims to enable eu citizens to enjoy the full benefits of the single market, while protecting their security and economic interests. the consumer is a key player in the internal market, with consumer spending accounting for 56% of the union's gdp. i support the four objectives of the new programme, which are recalled and specified in this report: security, information and education, rights and remedies and respect for the law. in the interests of transparency and to strengthen consumer protection, parliament was granted a strict timetable for the mid-term evaluation of the programme and a right of control over the use of funds and the implementation of the programme.
in writing. i voted against this report on the 2014-2020 consumer programme. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. it has been "generously" allocated a budget of 175 million over 7 years, which - for the 500 million consumers in the union of 28 countries - is an average of 5 cents per year per consumer, down on the previous programme. in the context of consumer scandals (horse meat in particular), the signal is deplorable to say the least. in line with the general objectives of competitiveness and growth based on liberalisation, it completely ignores the fact that these policies have led to higher prices, lower quality and weaker consumer protection. finally, there is no reference, much less criticism, to the current situation of the internal market, which has played a major role in the current economic crisis and its consequences for 'consumers' and their purchasing power.
in writing. the report is primarily technical in nature and aims to align existing legislation with the system of delegated and implementing acts as amended by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i voted for this report.
in writing. i voted for the moreira report on the management of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and mes­tel and for soils, dressings and other residues. the aim is to adapt the current text to the lisbon treaty, in particular as regards comitology.
in writing. the lisbon treaty gave the european commission the power to adopt delegated acts, allowing for amendments to non-essential elements of legislative acts, and implementing acts. in order to ensure the consistency of european legislation, the legislative act opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for certain meat and cereal products should be adapted accordingly. i agree with this report that it is essential, however, that the european parliament be properly involved in the preparation and implementation of these delegated acts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to bring this regulation into line with the european treaties. the midi-pyrénées and particularly the gers are areas where poultry production represents a significant part of the economy. the text will make it possible to streamline the european union's action in this area, which i welcome.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to align council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for certain meat and cereals with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. under that regulation, some important changes concern the involvement of the european parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts, the limitation of the delegation of power to five years, the extension of the time limit for objecting to a draft delegated act from two to four months and, finally, the modification of the application of the written procedure.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to adapt the regulation governing the import of meat and cereals in accordance with the treaties. the commission shall be granted the capacity to act by means of delegated acts in managing the opening and the manner of management of the quotas, following an agreement with a third country or countries. the fixing of import quotas implies the fixing of the volumes of products authorized for importation into the community market. the commission has consistently shown that it intends to liberalize trade completely and to remove the substance of customs instruments of trade regulation, such as tariff quotas. the report aims to ensure the involvement of parliament in the preparation and implementation of those delegated acts. you have no ambition. it cannot conceal its substance: the commission is increasing its unchecked appropriation of a people's right to rule. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat and meslin) and soot, render and other residues. the report aims to bring the provisions of the regulation on the opening and administration of certain community tariff quotas for these products into line with the treaty of lisbon. behind this european jargon are in fact procedures to frame the exercise of the implementing powers conferred on the european commission. the report thus provides that the commission has the possibility to legislate by means of delegated acts and implementing acts in this regulation. it also recalled that the european parliament must be duly involved in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts. the delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, for a period of five years.
in writing. the report is primarily technical in nature and aims to align three regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products originating in turkey with the system of implementing and delegated acts established by the treaty of lisbon. i voted for this report.
in writing. i voted for the moreira report on 'imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey'. this is a single vote of approval for updates of the comitology procedures to the provisions of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. in the interests of the coherence of european legislation, it seems to me consistent to adapt our legislative acts to the new provisions introduced by the lisbon treaty. it therefore seems to me legitimate to adjust the legislation on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products originating in turkey in accordance with the powers of the european commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to take account of the effects of the lisbon treaty on the commission's action, and more particularly in the area of turkish olive oil imports. turkey is a historic partner of the european union, with trade agreements between the two powers dating back almost half a century. as regards olive oil, turkey is now one of the main exporters of this product to the european union, which is why it is necessary for this power to coordinate its action with europe.
in writing. the commission proposal is to adapt the regulation regulating the import volumes of olive oils and other agricultural products in accordance with the treaties. the commission shall be granted the capacity to act by means of delegated acts in managing the opening and the manner of management of the quotas, following an agreement with a third country or countries. the fixing of import quotas implies the fixing of the volumes of products authorized for importation into the community market. the reduction of duties allows further reductions in customs duties. in this particular case, it is a means of putting additional pressure on the competitors of eu member turkey. how irresponsible! the commission has consistently shown that it intends to liberalize trade completely and to remove the substance of customs instruments of trade regulation, such as tariff quotas. the report aims to ensure the involvement of parliament in the preparation and implementation of these delegated acts. you have no ambition. it cannot conceal its substance: the commission is increasing its unchecked appropriation of a people's right to rule. i vote against it.
in writing. flavoured wine products are a category of drinks including sangria or vermouth. the main purpose of this text, which is of a technical nature, is to update the rules applicable to aromatised wine products and bring them into line with the treaty of lisbon adopted in 2009. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted for the bartolozzi report on aromatised wine products to improve transparency on geographical indications.
in writing. this text improves the traceability of european aromatised wine drinks. by giving new contexts and origins to these products, it protects designations of origin and supports european winegrowers. but it is also about restoring consumer confidence by opting for more transparency. the efforts to clarify the manufacturing methods are particularly noteworthy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to simplify and clarify the definition, designation, presentation and labelling of aromatised wine products and the protection of their geographical indications. as a member of parliament representing a constituency which includes the hills of languedoc-roussillon, the south-west and bordeaux, this issue is particularly close to my heart. with this new text, a policy of quality and clarity will be put in place for the consumer, which i welcome.
in writing. this report supports new, looser regulations for flavoured wine products. this proposal further aggravates the 1991 regulation which granted aromatised alcoholic preparations the qualification of 'wine product', in line with the global trade liberalisation which affected the international wine organisation. historically, however, wine could be called only the product of the alcoholic fermentation of the grapes. by giving the term 'vinicole' to all kinds of products that have nothing to do with wine, this 'simplification' marked a regression for the protection of wine. the proposed european regulation makes this trivialization even worse. it extends to aromatised, sweetened and coloured products the qualifications which were hitherto reserved for wine alone, such as the indication of the grape variety or the geographical origin. this trend, which favours standardised industrial alcoholic products, will be to the detriment of quality wine producers, who are gradually losing their specific protections. this is very bad news for the future and diversity of european wines. and it is a further sign of the lack of taste of the arrogant and vulgar technostructure which is inventing such a crime against european civilization. i vote against it.
in writing. the report aims to relax the rules on aromatised wine products . in practice, it allows products flavoured, coloured or sweetened to benefit from qualifications previously reserved for wines only. these products will thus be able to boast a specific grape variety or geographical origin. traditional wines are losing these distinctive signs, creating confusion which is detrimental to these products which are a valuable piece of know-how which we must preserve. the consumer is also penalized because it will be more difficult for him to distinguish a simple flavoured product from a real wine. i therefore resolutely opposed this report.
in writing. i abstained on the report on the proposal for a regulation on the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of aromatised wine products. the proposal for a regulation is part of the reform of the wine sector policy in the european union in the context of simplification of the cap. supporting transparency, providing guarantees on these names and ensuring consumer protection and information seem to me to be clearly sustainable objectives. it is probably necessary to provide information on the composition of these products, their geographical origin and their origin, and thus to avoid misleading names. but aligning these protections with those offered to quality wines, and ultimately losing the specific protection that existed for these wines, puts aromatised and often industrial wine products on the same level as traditional quality wine and can therefore be dangerous for traditional products and may cause more confusion for the consumer than real transparency.
in writing. i welcome the revision of the aromatised wine regulation to clarify the existing rules. on the one hand, parliament updates the many existing trade names to ensure better visibility for consumers. the text also relaxed the rules on the composition of these specific drinks, while strengthening health guarantees. this revision will not upset the major european producers and thus responds to their wish to modernise, without revolutionizing, a fair but obsolete legislative framework.
in writing. carbon capture and storage (ccs) is a promising technology that could reduce co2 emissions in the atmosphere in the future. it therefore needs political and possibly financial support to determine as soon as possible whether it is a viable technology in the long term and, if so, to enable the actors to invest. this own-initiative report supports innovation and the fight against climate change. that is why i voted for this one.
in writing. carbon capture and storage technology is by no means a panacea. however, there is still a long way to go in the fight against climate change. 2013 was another record-breaking year of warm weather, and the scenarios outlined by all the experts are truly chilling! the european union must therefore be the leader in cutting-edge technologies in this field. to do this, it must initiate, support and monitor new co2 capture and storage projects. however, companies receiving such support cannot be exempted from liability in the event of a leak. it is a win-win approach that is worth pursuing and one that i have stood up for.
in writing. i voted for the report on carbon capture and storage. this is a rather sensitive subject in the committee on petitions, where i have received petitions against this type of project which may pose a risk in the event of a change in the nature of the soil or an earthquake. france must continue to invest in research and security around these types of projects to remain at the forefront of this field.
in writing. by voting for this text, meps wanted to encourage the development of technologies for carbon capture and storage. this technology would enable us to achieve significant reductions in co2 emissions and bring us closer to our environmental objectives. therefore, it is particularly relevant to look more seriously at how to attract investment to enable the deployment of carbon capture and storage.
in writing. under its horizon 2020 strategy, the eu has set itself the ambition of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020. to achieve this, lifestyles will have to change. innovative technologies will also be needed to combine, where possible, the optimal use of energy with respect for our environmental commitments. in close cooperation with industry and member states, the eu supports demonstration projects and the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs). the heads of state and government have committed to setting up 12 demonstration plants by 2015. but none of these plants has yet been built and the delay in launching demonstration projects at european level may jeopardise the objectives set. we must not lose sight of this objective, which, in addition to reducing greenhouse gases, will be a source of growth and employment for europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to put forward carbon capture and storage technologies. this proposal guarantees the application of technology which has a vital role to play in combating the threat of global warming and at a time when environmental issues remain a concern for many citizens, i welcome the adoption of such measures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to support the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies in europe and their role in the fight against climate change. for example, carbon dioxide emitted by highly emitting facilities, such as fossil fuel power stations, would be captured and stored underground. co2 could also be used as a raw material in industrial processes. all solutions to mitigate the effects of climate change are worth trying. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cfp, in particular by ensuring that the cfp is properly managed and implemented. as such, they need to be mentioned in the 2030 climate and energy package.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the glaring lack of public and private investment in carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies. despite all the efforts, carbon capture and storage technologies have still not taken off in europe. once again, the eu is lagging behind! the ccs is an essential tool for achieving a competitive low-carbon economy at low cost. clearly, investment in these technologies needs to be encouraged and attracted, and the public sector needs to play its part. ccs technologies are not 'competing' with renewable energy, but are an alternative technology, indispensable in certain industrial sectors that emit high levels of co2. faced with such potential, europe cannot afford to remain the last pupil in the class!
in writing. it is clear that since its adoption in 2009, the carbon capture and storage (ccs) directive has not had the desired effect: to date, no pilot plants have yet been set up. it was therefore essential that parliament should take stock of the application - or more precisely the non-application - of this directive and of the improvements needed to ensure that the development of this technology was both effective and supervised. 'effective' because it is important that europe can have low carbon electricity as ccs could be the only way to achieve european targets for reducing greenhouse gases from industrial sources. 'encadrated' as it is equally important to clarify that ccs should not be considered as an alternative to renewable energy; if the csc technology is to benefit from the financial resources necessary for its use, it must not become a blank check for polluters. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. i therefore decided to support this report, which, at the end of the negotiations, was a satisfactory balance.
in writing. this text is an example of the ecological inconsistency of european technocracy. he contradicts himself when he says that support for carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies must be based on carbon market mechanisms after pointing out its inefficiency. he is loyal to the eu's neoliberal austerity line. thus, member states should play the supporting role through public-private partnerships of private companies in the development of gas pipelines at european level. they should also bear part of the industrial risk associated with the co2 storage activity. finally, it is also fully in line with the eu's anti-poor policy. as the commission does not intend to take the money where it is, it is envisaged here to finance support for the csc through a new form of taxation of fossil fuels. the increase will again be high for households with modest energy and transportation expenditure constraints. this is without questioning the eu's real need for renewable energy, whereas funding renewable energy is more environmentally and socially efficient. i vote against it.
in writing. this own-initiative report supports the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies in the european union. unfortunately, the development of these technologies implies that this will probably come at the expense of low greenhouse gas emitting technologies, such as renewable energy, and will mainly benefit large industrial groups. the development of the csc therefore offers no real answers to the climate and energy problems, and implicitly supports the ultra-productivist methods of the most emitting industrialists. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. the european parliament and the council adopted the carbon capture and storage directive in 2009, which provides a framework for the eu. however, due to the lack of funding for technological development, there were no projects under way in the eu. however, the issue of global warming has become a matter of life and death and this possibility of capture must be studied in order to limit it. in his draft the rapporteur focused on possible ways to advance the development of carbon capture and storage in the eu, in particular through financial and regulatory measures. he also stressed the role of the member states in this area in relation to transport, storage and responsibility for co2 emissions. renewable energy, energy efficiency and their financing should remain the main focus of eu climate legislation. carbon capture and storage should be considered as a transitional solution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industrial sources. i supported the adoption of this own-initiative report because i believe that no possibility should be ruled out.
in writing. as every year since the adoption of the 2009 co2 storage directive, our parliament adopted a report on progress made. i welcome the fact that the european framework for the development of carbon capture and storage technologies is bearing fruit. it is both a niche for innovation, r&d and employment, and an effective means of achieving our emissions reduction targets. we know that this strategy requires investment by the industrialists and therefore european and national incentives. our report thus recognises the crucial role of the member states, which must play their part in supporting the eu's ambitious approach and step up their efforts to use the available funding. it is clear that there are sources of carbon emissions that cannot be eliminated, in industry or transport. nevertheless, the regulations in place for carbon capture and storage are indispensable and complement the efforts for the development of alternative energies and fuels. the main challenge for the future is now to accelerate research to improve the transport and geological storage of carbon that is captured at source and in the atmosphere.
in writing. 'online health' offers a means of improving the quality and efficiency of healthcare in the 21st century by making it more universal. the global telemedicine market is worth several hundred million euros and has a very high growth potential for our continent. the ageing of the population and the development of chronic diseases are increasing the pressure on member states' health systems, which need to become more efficient. i voted in favour of this text because the online provision of health-related procedures will improve access to health care services for people living in remote and sparsely populated areas, improve working conditions for professionals, reduce waiting times and, most importantly, help ensure the provision of reliable, efficient and high-quality health care data.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ayuso report on the action plan for online health. the aim is to encourage the commission and the member states to promote ehealth solutions. as a doctor in an area that has been called a medical desert, i am faced with a lack of doctors and solutions for the benefit of our patients. i've been advocating for several years for investment in telemedicine as a solution to the shortage of doctors. this does not require a great deal of resources, it is not likely to interfere with the freedom of establishment of doctors in france, nor will it contribute to the shortage of doctors in romania, for example, and it would strengthen the principle of territorial cohesion. i hope that europe will finally be able to solve the daily problem facing our citizens.
in writing. i encourage the development of ehealth services in europe for the period 2012-2020. the ehealth services are a coherent response to the different challenges faced such as population ageing, patient mobility, and the need to reduce costs. however, particular attention should be paid to ensuring the protection of citizens' medical data and the prevention of fraud.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to advance online health systems. the measures in this text are part of the desire to increase the sustainability and efficiency of health systems while encouraging cross-border healthcare. furthermore, the promotion of policy dialogue and international cooperation on ehealth at the global level are all elements that aim to strengthen the health plan for the period in question, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls on the commission and the member states to speed up access to ehealth tools. these online health solutions can improve the well-being of patients, especially those with chronic diseases, as it is easier to treat them at home. the ehealth platform also offers the prospect of major advances in the prevention and treatment of many diseases: telemedicine, personal medical records, online appointments... we need to move up the speed in this area, it is imperative both for patients but also for the creation of new jobs in medical, research and health services
in writing. e-health tools can indeed be an asset in addressing inequalities in access to care, especially in rural areas, where, whether or not hospitals are closed, distance remains a constraint that technology could have addressed. however, this report and the european commission's communication on which it is based are not about providing additional means to improve, humanise and personalise the health system. e-health is the commission's new means of accompanying austerity reforms. the european parliament's report is certainly less bad than the commission's communication. but instead of protecting this fundamental right, health becomes a commodity like any other, a lucrative market for private providers. this text is a first step to avoid calling into question the commodification, dehumanization and privatization of health, to avoid building hospitals, training doctors, financing a major health plan to combat health inequalities and to face the gigantic challenges that await us (ageing, dependence, abandonment of care, medical deserts). i vote against it.
in writing. 'online healthcare', as defined by the european commission, is the use of information and communication technologies in the interaction between patients and healthcare providers, the transmission of data between institutions, or the communication between patients and/or healthcare professionals. e-health can be a real breakthrough for people in sparsely populated, remote and/or isolated areas who have difficulty accessing healthcare. this text was therefore a real opportunity to open up these medical deserts and improve the quality and efficiency of healthcare in europe. unfortunately, by leaving the area of ehealth in the hands of the private sector, this text risks leading to a disengagement of public policies that would be very detrimental to citizens. i therefore opposed the report.
in writing. the european commission has only limited powers in health matters, the bulk of which still lies with the member states. however, it is a driving force in this sector which, despite its shortcomings, has great potential and can be used to the benefit of healthcare professionals, patients, informal support providers and public authorities. the challenges are many: the digital culture of the sector's professionals must be strengthened, and the digital divide that divides both european territories and territories within the same member state must be reduced beforehand; the tools offered must also be made available to all patients, which implies a great deal of research, innovation and adaptation of traditional techniques. but these are not just challenges: the economic consequences of such a development, if our doctors and businesses can grasp them, will be very positive for the eu, which is already among the world leaders in the sector.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on the report on the action plan for ehealth 2010-2020, unfortunately, while the development of ehealth has interesting potential to improve the quality and efficiency of care, i regret that the report's approach is in line with the commission's and places this plan in an austerity perspective and a market logic. in addition, there is a need to be vigilant about the future use of data that will be stored to enable the functioning of ehealth tools. the parliament is missing the opportunity to use ehealth tools as assets, especially in rural areas, as they would allow for regional specificities, reduce both distances and the digital divide, improve treatment for certain patients or allow for the creation of a framework for interoperability between health, research and innovation systems. i regret that instead of seeking to protect this fundamental right, health with this report becomes a means to accompany austerity reforms, a lucrative market for private providers and a commodity like any other.
in writing. following the horse meat scandal which occurred almost a year ago in my own region of south-west france, i am pleased that our parliament has been able to draw up an own-initiative report on food crises and fraud in the food chain and on the means of combating these practices. the socialists supported the general approach of mrs de lange's report. with my colleague gilles pargneau, the s&d group's fictitious rapporteur, we have passed amendments calling for the creation of an anti-food fraud network to prevent crises and improve consumer information. thanks to our efforts, parliament is now demanding that the commission make it compulsory to label all meat with the indication of origin. it also called on the commission, in particular, to act as soon as possible by making legislative proposals to extend the mandatory labelling of the indication of origin for ingredients.
in writing. this own-initiative report aims to draw lessons from the horse meat labelling scandal. i have tabled a number of amendments to strengthen its content, particularly on the question of the indication of the origin of meat in prepared dishes. in its final version, the report calls on the european commission to present legislative proposals to make the indication of the origin of processed meat products compulsory . the european commission must now act as quickly as possible to inform and reassure consumers. it is a very good report explaining the causes and problems of food fraud, calling for more controls and sanctions, and i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs de lange's own-initiative report on fraud in the food chain. i have, however, voted differently from my group on a point which seems to me to be of the utmost importance, particularly in view of recent events. i have supported the principle of compulsory labelling of the origin of meat in prepared dishes, in line with the expectations of french citizens for transparency. too many health scandals have come to our attention lately. it is normal to demand transparency, but we must double the number of health checks to prevent fraud. this, however, remains in the hands of the member states.
in writing. in the light of the scandals in some european countries, notably france, concerning food fraud and mislabelling of dishes prepared from horse meat, there was an urgent need to act at european level to strengthen consumer protection in the internal market. the european union must therefore finally agree on a common definition of food fraud. moreover, better control of the labelling of these products would help to restore consumer confidence in the agri-food sector. for almost a year now i have been advocating mandatory origin labelling for meat used as an ingredient and for processed meat products. i welcome the recommendation made in this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which gives a definition of food fraud at eu level. as many health scandals have been uncovered at european level in recent years, it seems to me essential that the union address the issue of food fraud. i therefore actively support the increase in sanctions to at least double the economic gains sought by food fraud. i also share the idea that the approval of a food business operator should be withdrawn in the event of a repeat offence.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in order to fight fraud in the food chain more effectively. the recent food scandals such as the one involving horse meat in beef lasagna have undermined consumer confidence in the controls and traceability of our products. the report calls for the criminal sanctions against such practices to be strengthened. finally, i supported the obligation to indicate the origin of processed meat products, which does not impose an excessive administrative burden on operators. this will strengthen consumer confidence through better information. this indication of origin on the labels will enable them to make a citizen's purchasing approach linked to requirements relating to quality, health safety and also to territorial anchoring. these provisions were adopted today.
in writing. if the horse meat case has any merit, it is that it has highlighted the existence of flaws in a complex european agri-food production system that directly affects the health of our consumers, all over europe. in supporting this own-initiative report, i therefore call for the legislative framework for the european agri-food system to be strengthened, in particular by requiring that the origin labelling of meat used in cooked dishes be made compulsory. in addition, cases of fraud should be severely punished, including by imposing a fine equivalent to twice the profit sought by the fraudsters and by increasing penalties in cases where the victims are infants or vulnerable persons.
in writing. alarmed by the succession of food scandals that made headlines last year, the european parliament has sent a roadmap to the european commission and the member states to ensure that such practices do not happen again. while the eu is working to improve food security through a series of measures that are sometimes perceived as burdensome by citizens and that have never been more secure, these frauds and manipulations have largely contributed to discrediting european action and undermining consumer confidence. i therefore call on the commission and the national authorities to strengthen checks and to increase sanctions against fraudsters who do not hesitate to speculate on the health of citizens. finally, i would urge the commission to make proposals as soon as possible on the labelling of the origin of meat in prepared dishes, which are sometimes of poor quality, so that the citizen is fully informed of the quality of the products he consumes. let us not allow the idea to spread that the eu is just an uncontrolled market, left in the hands of a handful of irresponsible and fraudulent people.
in writing. following the scandal of fraudulently titled lasagna, this report tackles food fraud. it proposes to combat food fraud at european level by adopting a harmonised definition and networking the bodies responsible for combating it. it called on the member states to have specialised police forces and to strengthen sanctions. he denounced the austerity in the budgets of the supervisory authorities. he advocates labelling that favours short-circuits and direct sales. it defends the mandatory labelling of meat used in preparations. i support these proposals. even if this report remains a prisoner of the eu. the commission has not yet proposed the regulations on the mandatory labelling of the origin of sheepmeat, goatmeat and poultrymeat. these jeremiads are intended to hide the fact that parliament has no power to propose them in place of the failing commission. i am voting in favour of this report to support the progress made in this report.
in writing. in recent years, consumer confidence has been affected by scandals involving food fraud. the european parliament has therefore decided to take up the matter. the report calls on the member states and the european commission to extend their policies and controls to food fraud. the text proposes for the first time a definition of food fraud in order to be able to identify it better. it also proposes to increase penalties for fraud and to withdraw the licence of a repeat offender. this report contains very interesting elements in the fight against food fraud and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. in the light of recent and all too frequent cases of fraud in the food chain in france and europe, i could only support this report. it is a real road map, clear and concrete, for the member states and the european authorities so that crises like the horse meat scandal do not happen again. i have supported the points in this text aimed at improving the labelling of products: the text we have adopted calls on the european commission to present swiftly measures making it compulsory to label the origin of meat in prepared dishes. the adoption of this report is an important step forward in strengthening national technical resources, transparency in the food chain and the establishment of sanctions that are becoming a real deterrent.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the fight against food fraud. following the spanghero scandal that shook the meat industry in 2013, european citizens were shocked to discover the unacceptable practices of some companies in the sector. the ump delegation requested that the dishes at the origin of the scandal should also be subject to mandatory labelling of the origin of the meat. this transparency is necessary to regain consumer confidence.
in writing. the horse meat scandal last year exposed all the flaws in the agri-food chain. this type of deception, which is far from an isolated case, requires a reinforcement of the traceability system at european level. first, there must be strict sanctions against fraudsters. secondly, there is a need to increase the number of checks and inspections by national and european authorities at all stages of production, to coordinate the alert mechanisms better and finally to introduce mandatory and precise labelling of the origin of meat and fish in prepared dishes. beyond the fraud, it is the whole food trading system that seems to be the source of these unacceptable deviations. it is no longer a question of producing to sell, but of buying cheaply to sell and making the most profit, which is no more and no less than financial speculation in agri-food products. it is essential to return to a more transparent, clearer and more ethical system with fewer intermediaries and which values local production and short circuits.
in writing. the food scandal of lasagna labelled 'beef' but actually containing horse meat has highlighted the complexity of the food production chain and especially the existence of fraud within it. the report calls on the commission to review and improve the controls carried out along the whole chain of production of prepared dishes in order to prevent such manipulations from happening again. in this report i also called for improved labelling of prepared meals, asking the european commission to impose the fact that the origin of meat is clearly indicated, despite the position of some large agri-food groups who believe that this will increase the price. i would remind these large groups that a food scandal is also very damaging to their industry and that clear labelling and better controls will strengthen consumer confidence. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. following the horse meat scandal, the own-initiative report by mr de lange deals with ways of combating fraud in the food chain. food fraud affects a wide range of products including meat, fish, organic food, olive oil, milk and cereals. food fraud is becoming common. member states must take the necessary and substantial measures to implement effective controls in the food chain and to apply appropriate penalties in order to ensure public health and restore consumer confidence. this report suggests regulatory action. on the one hand by proposing a harmonisation of the definition of food fraud, and on the other hand by listing what contributes to this fraud. it encourages improved cooperation, proposes the introduction of a european revision regulation on labelling and the establishment of an electronic system for the rapid exchange of information to deal with cases of fraud. i welcome the adoption of this text which stresses the need for swift and more stringent action.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on fraud in the food chain. unfortunately, in recent years there has been an increase in fraud in the food chain (so-called organic eggs, horse meat) and it is not surprising that one in three consumers no longer trusts the information mentioned on food labels. the report proposes several ways of restoring european consumers' confidence: - to find a harmonised european definition of food fraud; - to strengthen the role and resources of the european food and veterinary office in detecting food fraud cases; - to encourage member states to cooperate more through europol in cross-border food fraud investigations; - to increase penalties to at least double the economic gains sought by food fraud. although the eu is often called into question, in this case the responsibility for combating fraud in this area lies much more with the member states; the report therefore essentially encourages the states to act by giving them a european framework.
in writing. following the horse meat scandal in early 2013, the european parliament launched a work to analyse fraud in the food chain and to define measures to be taken to combat such abuses. the report i voted for today contains a range of concrete proposals, including a harmonised definition of food fraud, a revision of labelling rules, stronger penalties, the creation of an anti-food fraud network, the extension of the scope of the european rapid alert system for food and feed. socialist amendments, which i supported, also called for the obligation to indicate the origin of meat in prepared dishes, which is a real step forward, in line with the need to give a european response to this phenomenon of food fraud. we have thus succeeded, and i welcome this, in the report calling for the adoption of a legislative proposal extending the obligation to indicate the origin of meat in prepared dishes. i will be particularly careful to ensure that this text guarantees consumer information on the place of birth, rearing and slaughter of the animal, because this proposal will make all processors responsible.
in writing. the fight against food fraud is a relatively new item on the eu agenda and i welcome that it has become a priority. the european citizens would not understand that we should stand by while scandals have been unleashed in recent years, whether it be the issue of horse meat, transport and storage conditions or labelling. europe has the strictest health standards in the world, ensuring food safety throughout the internal market. it is therefore essential to guarantee quality throughout the food chain, from the field to the plate. i naturally supported the call on the commission to launch a comprehensive strategy to strengthen consumer confidence and improve the functioning of the food chain, while ensuring the stability of agricultural prices, without which the practices of impunity of the past will not be eradicated. the agri-food sector is one of the main industries in europe and we cannot afford to ignore significant progress in the fight against fraud. finally, i believe that our approach is inseparable from the strengthening of efforts to combat food waste, which is an equally unacceptable scandal.
in writing. i supported this report which gives a snapshot of the state of relations and working conditions in a context of increased globalisation. the report highlights the role of labour inspection systems in the fight against undeclared work in the eu (18.8% of the total gdp of the eu-27) and which should become a european priority in the short term.
in writing. i voted for the report on effective labour inspections as a strategy for improving working conditions, which i was rapporteur for my epp group. this report proposes many improvements in working conditions, better training in labour inspection to meet the challenges of the european labour market.
in writing. the adoption of this report on the strengthening of labour inspection is an important step forward in the fight against social dumping and undeclared work. in the context of the posting of workers, this strengthening will not only ensure the rights of posted workers but also reduce the number of fraud by companies, and thus social dumping in europe. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to combat undeclared work. i regret, however, that the proposals to include aspects of the fight against social dumping in competition law have been rejected by the right.
in writing. this text promotes effective labour inspections as a strategy for improving working conditions in europe. the large number of undeclared workers in europe is a problem that must be tackled. these workers are often subject to greater vulnerability, particularly in terms of social protection. therefore, a system of sanctions should be established to combat such abuses.
in writing. the european union must have the means to combat undeclared work and the shadow economy, which represents a shortfall of 18.8% of its gdp. the creation of european standards for labour inspection goes hand in hand with the deepening of the common market, as does the creation of a european social security card covering all categories of workers. more effective and rigorous labour inspections and closer cooperation between national authorities would also help to improve working conditions in europe. in this respect, social dumping must be combated, particularly fraud in the case of secondment. the european union will therefore have to rethink its legislation on posted workers, some 1.5 million of whom are women. the 1996 directive is not sufficiently protective and does not define precisely the criteria for distinguishing between genuine secondment and fraud. it will therefore need to be reformed to put an end to the fiscal and social dumping practices within the eu which are destabilising large parts of our economy.
in writing. i abstained on the steinruck report. i consider that monitoring of compliance with labour law is extremely important. but i also believe that the labour inspectorate is now one of the first victims of the budgetary restrictions imposed by brussels, and that brussels' policies are directly responsible for the increase in the opportunities for fraud in national social law. we shall see how you react when a member state decides to put in place the means to react in the name of defending its citizens and workers. i am betting on your condemnation, in the name of respect for the budgetary dictates of brussels and the rules of competition. there is therefore a certain hypocrisy in this house calling for stricter controls and more effective inspections, while supporting social dumping legally organized by the secondment directive, for example. because even in the absence of fraud or exploitation of foreign workers, the possibility of employing low-cost workers in direct competition with the millions of unemployed nationals is being organized. it is the very source of the problem that must be eradicated. but that, of course, you're not ready to do.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which will make it possible to combat undeclared work and the abusive situations that can arise, for example, from the posting of workers. the report highlights the difficulties that labour inspectorates in the union sometimes encounter and proposes to strengthen their resources. it also called for better crossborder cooperation in this area, to combat fraud resulting from the mobility of workers. we must not turn a blind eye to the social dumping which our companies and our employees sometimes suffer. the eu's rules must be enforced and the system of sanctions for abuse must be strengthened.
in writing. by voting for this text, i call for the strengthening of labour inspectorates to combat the downward levelling of social conditions in europe and to guarantee adequate social protection for all workers. they are essential to make competition within the eu fairer and to improve tax revenues. it is regrettable that this sector is too often very poorly staffed, which is why we call on the member states to achieve the target of one inspector per 10 000 workers, in line with the ilo recommendations, despite a backdrop of all-round budget cuts. the european commission should therefore set up a european pilot project to alert the public to non-compliance, accompanied by a blacklist. stronger sanctions should be applied to companies that do not comply with their obligations. finally, it would be interesting to provide for the introduction of a european electronic social security card which is unforgeable and on which all the data necessary for monitoring the employee's employment relationship, including social insurance and working time, could be stored.
in writing. the report calls for the strengthening of labour inspection controls in the various member states and a fight against social dumping at european level, in particular by means of better legal guarantees. it is a pity that it does not more vigorously challenge the austerity measures and the european framework of organised competition between workers by ensuring that 'budgetary consolidation' does not lead to cuts in resources. the report does not, therefore, call into question the substance of the posting of workers directive: companies do not pay social security contributions at the place where they carry out their posting activities. nevertheless, we have here a text which is genuinely in favour of improving working conditions in europe. i'm not going to.
in writing. this own-initiative report highlights the main difficulties faced by labour inspectorates in the eu and makes recommendations to help them work more effectively. the aim is to combat undeclared work, which accounts for 18.8% of the eu-27's total gdp. the many avenues proposed (strengthening crossborder cooperation, the need for member states to have binding legal measures, the inclusion of provisions against social dumping in the treaty, the introduction of a clear and binding definition of employee at eu level, etc.) will make it possible to better protect the unreported workers who are among the most vulnerable. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution calling for the strengthening of the means of labour inspectorates in the member states to combat undeclared work, abuse in the posting of workers, false self-employment and social dumping. the underground sector accounts for almost 18% of european gdp; an undeclared employee has no social security, deprives the state of tax revenue and creates unfair competition with registered workers. the labour inspectorates are currently suffering from a severe shortage of staff and crossborder cooperation between administrations is too often inadequate.
in writing. nearly 20% of gdp is accounted for by undeclared work. the phenomenon is well known, but europe is now experiencing a meteoric rise in social dumping based on the lack of cooperation between member states. we saw it at the epr site in flamanville. the temporary agency system was based on a number of shortcomings and the temporary nature of the right to post foreign workers was undermined by fictitious temporary agency companies. crossborder cooperation is therefore essential. this report shows the role of the labour inspection system in the fight against undeclared work in the eu. at present, all forms of fraud are facing difficulties in many member states both in terms of financing and in adapting measures to the ever-evolving practice of fraud. the report highlights these shortcomings of the union and makes recommendations for improvement. i supported this report, but as socialists we wanted measures against social dumping to be incorporated into competition law. it was without the ideological opposition of the right wing, which managed to gather a majority to get it rejected, that is deplorable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of effective labour inspectorates to improve working conditions. more and more employees from one member state are going to work in another member state, undeclared work is increasing significantly and the number and forms of precarious employment contracts are multiplying, promoting social dumping, in particular through the use of posted workers under often fraudulent conditions, so the creation of a european framework for labour inspections should be encouraged. inspection systems, the way in which inspections are carried out and the areas they cover vary in the member states. there are no bodies to monitor and control working conditions at european level and information exchange on the subject is difficult. in order to guarantee better working conditions for workers in the union, and especially for the most vulnerable among them, it is high time to act. workers' rights need to be improved and strengthened and they only make sense if they are enforced, so we hope that a european framework on labour inspections can provide guarantees and fight against social dumping within the eu.
in writing. i welcome the vote today on this text calling for the strengthening of labour inspectorates to combat undeclared work, false self-employment and social dumping. the adoption of rules to combat social dumping is indeed a necessity today, particularly for better protection of posted workers. unreported work accounts for almost 20% of gdp: reducing its share means increasing tax revenues, and ensuring the financing of pensions and health systems. we, the european socialists, must therefore ensure that labour law is respected by strengthening labour inspectorates in each member state and by coordinating crossborder cooperation more effectively. we are calling for a european response today, including for example a european social security card. the european commission must also set up a european pilot project to alert the public to non-compliance, with a blacklist.
in writing. the aim of this own-initiative report is to encourage member states to develop national measures to encourage enterprises to implement worker participation schemes. these schemes, which can take different forms, increase workers' sense of ownership and responsibility, thus improving job satisfaction, performance and motivation. the employee thus benefits from the success of the company, which seems to me to be quite healthy and consistent! i therefore fully support this approach and this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of my committee on employment's report on the financial participation of employees in the results of enterprises.
in writing. i supported this text which encourages member states to take national measures to encourage their companies to set up worker participation schemes. this would allow for a better integration of workers into their enterprises. it is nevertheless clear that the specific situations of smes and microenterprises must be taken into account. the proposal to improve the organisation of information campaigns and to encourage exchanges of good practice between member states seems appropriate.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal to promote financial participation by employees in the results of enterprises. this report aims to highlight the positive role that employee participation schemes can play in stimulating the participation of workers in the governance and financial performance of the enterprises in which they operate.
in writing. i supported this own-initiative report because i share the view that workers' financial participation in their enterprises can be useful in creating the new economic governance that the socialists are calling for. with workers involved in the decision-making process, an increased provision of training to employees throughout their careers, this would be a win-win formula that deserves to be developed. to this end, obstacles still need to be removed to provide firms with a better incentive to use it.
in writing. financial participation by workers (ptf) is seen here as a tangible means of strengthening inclusive growth. the neologism is a diversion. this participation can take several forms: profit participation (in cash, deferred or in the form of shares), individual participation by employees in the capital (shares or stock options distributed to employees) and collective employee ownership plans (esops). but it is mainly a question of promoting the logic of capital rather than a voluntarist wage policy, and i am voting against it.
in writing. i voted against the report on financial participation by employees in company results because, in my view, it is not, as the report says, a good way to participate in so-called smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. employee shareholding, although it can bring profits when there are some (and in the period of crisis we are going through, nothing is less certain), above all places significant risks on employees since it puts them in a position that can be doubly precarious with the risk of losing both their job (and therefore their income) and the capital invested in the company. this also creates the illusion among workers that by participating in the results of their enterprise they have some power of decision in the strategies of the enterprise. we know what it's like in big business. and in fact, it only serves to mask the refusal to raise wages. i have been campaigning for many years in favour of the social and solidarity-based economy, and i would rather allow workers to take back their businesses through democratic means and support initiatives for other forms of ownership and employee participation than support such a mirror to the hips.
in writing. social protection is at the heart of the european social model. its main function is to promote inclusion, social justice, income protection and to guarantee quality education and health care for all. this report, which i supported, establishes that social security can be considered appropriate if it achieves the desired results of a social policy. the report also discusses appropriate social security benefits, the importance of selfemployment as a form of employment, new forms of employment, and possible abuses of selfemployment.
in writing. i voted for the report which will improve social protection for all, including the selfemployed. all, whether employees or workers, need social protection.
in writing. this text rightly states that social protection policy remains a matter for the member states. nevertheless, the european union can still call for the pursuit of common objectives. it is therefore only useful to remind member states of the importance of quality social protection for all. the text thus emphasises the special attention to be paid to selfemployed workers who may appear to be more vulnerable in several european countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal so that the european union can adopt its legislation taking into account the social protection of the self-employed. indeed, self-employment is expanding rapidly, taking on a variety of new forms. in 2012, 32.8 million people in the eu were self-employed, representing 15% of total employment in the eu, and i welcome the union's action in this area.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague vilija blinkevičiūtė because i believe that all european workers, including the self-employed, should have access to social protection and that it should be sound, sustainable and adequate for all. this question is even more acute in the present period of deep economic crisis and unemployment, which affects 27 million people in europe. with a decline in social contributions and restrictions on member states' budgets, the welfare state is seriously weakened. on the other hand, policies to make labour markets more flexible have been put in place and are leading to reductions in social protection for workers, particularly for the most vulnerable populations such as pensioners, single parents and the unemployed. this text is therefore an opportunity for us to emphasize that no one should be left without social protection.
in writing. the report shows a desire to establish access to social protection and minimum social rights. the fact that policies are being used to squeeze national budgets as a result of the crisis in public finances is well known. the text attempts to propose steps to give guarantees to the selfemployed. it is in fact necessary to emphasize the interest of promoting access for these often forced workers to the same rights as employees. beyond these findings, there is a lack of will to challenge the eu's policy in this area: dismantling of social rights, lower "labour costs", budgetary austerity... finally, social protection is seen only as an 'investment' in economic performance and not as human progress. why would you do that? the social democrats have complexes about taking on social concerns. i am voting against this text with its obvious contradictions.
in writing. the european social model provides social protection for all, without any discrimination as to the status of the worker. however, we note that certain categories of workers, mainly the selfemployed, are discriminated against in some member states. this situation must change. to this end, the european union must take action to standardize the definition of selfemployed in each of its member countries. the social partners must have a well-defined status so that they can enjoy better social protection on an equal footing with wage-earners. i am very pleased that such a report has been adopted. it shows the need for more equitable social protection for all workers in the union, but also the need to step up the fight against undeclared work, the false self-employed and social dumping. these three scourges must be overcome so that each of our citizens can fully benefit from the european social model.
in writing. the pressure on social protection systems in many member states in europe due to the persistent economic difficulties associated with the financial crisis is creating human drama. the own-initiative report, entitled social protection for all, focuses on important issues such as reaffirming the right to sustainable and adequate social protection for all, based on the principles of universal and non-discriminatory access, the importance of social investment and ensuring a decent income for everyone. i welcome the adoption of this report which puts the social objectives of europe back on the front line. social protection is the first line of defence against inequalities and aims to provide men and women with the security of a basic income and access to solidarity, particularly in periods of illness, unemployment or old age. social protection is an essential mechanism for addressing these inequalities and needs to be strengthened for a more just and social europe. and especially when times are tough.
in writing. i voted against the own-initiative report on social protection for all workers, including the self-employed. initially, this project was promising, as it focused on existing needs and the necessary progress in social protection in the eu, especially for the poorest and youngest. recognising that access to social security is a fundamental right and part of the european social model, recognising the contribution of social security investments as investments, not expenditure, establishing a national social protection base ensuring a decent income and guaranteeing access to basic social benefits and overall improving social protection systems were all proposals that i could only support. unfortunately, the draft submitted for vote was largely amended to glorify the concept of 'flexisicurity' and recommend the implementation of the principles derived from it. we know what this means: more ease of dismissal for companies, structural reforms as they say, including the alignment of the retirement age with the increase in life expectancy and budget cuts.
in writing. with its future-oriented funding, cohesion policy plays a key role in the sustainable and supportive development of the european union's territories. this report aims to ensure the proper implementation of the new programming period of this policy (2014-2020). this text recalls key elements, including the absolute need to simplify this policy in order to make it more useful and effective for citizens, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted for the vaughan report on the ability of the eu member states to start the new cohesion policy programming period in a timely and effective manner.
in writing. this text recalls the importance of the proper management of the funds provided by the european union's cohesion policy in order to contribute effectively to growth, competitiveness and the fight against unemployment. at a time of considerable pressure on national budgets, it is becoming essential that member states are prepared to put in place such funding in an appropriate manner and in cooperation with regional authorities. that is why i support, in particular, the simplification of the methods of preparing and implementing projects and greater transparency in the management of the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. the purpose of this own-initiative report was to influence the debate on the legislative package on cohesion policy. the latter having been voted on last november, it therefore comes after the battle. it is very fortunate that the member states and their regions are free to draw up their own operational programmes, adapted to their specific territorial needs. it is still the minimum of popular sovereignty. beyond that aspect, won by high struggle, there is nothing good to be taken from. this document attests to the conversion of the social democrats to the logic of the grand coalition in germany. the report also welcomes the cutting of the multiannual budget and the new cohesion policy, which is based on the principle of macro-conditionality. the latter requires the member states to comply with the liberal and austerity recommendations of the european commission in order to receive regional cohesion funds. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. all this demonstrates once again the ideological shift from social democracy to the precepts of uncomplicated neoliberalism. i vote against this ode to neoliberalism.
in writing. in this period of economic and financial crisis, the eu's cohesion policy is fundamental to job creation, sustainable growth and maintaining the competitiveness of the member states and the european union. i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the crucial role of the european parliament in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and the funds allocated to cohesion policy. cohesion policy for this new programming period will be coupled with the effective implementation of the funds, whatever the economic situation of the member state and its regions. we must support this policy which has proved its worth in the past and has enabled some regions to progress and increase their gdp per head. this is particularly the case for the nord-pas-de-calais region, which will be an intermediate region for the next period 2014-2020.
in writing. this own-initiative report is a statement by the european parliament following the publication by the european commission of its green paper on plastic waste. for me, it is of course essential to combat plastic waste in the environment because its life span is often extremely long and its harmful impact on fauna and flora. this is particularly the case at sea with the development of waste continents (vortex). for example, a single piece of plastic waste can cause fish or birds to die by ingestion. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in a context of resource scarcity, when we need to strengthen our objectives in the fight against climate change but also ensure economically and socially sustainable growth, creating jobs, moving towards a circular economy is not an option, it is a necessity. today we have taken advantage of an own-initiative report on the european strategy on plastic waste to support the circular economy model which decouples growth from resource depletion and requires a complete change in our product design. from eco-design to extending product life, to facilitating repair and reuse, a whole mode of production is changing. in terms of cost, environmental impact, waste management and local services, there are advantages to reusing, repairing, recycling and reusing products. the circular economy has the potential to impact all sectors and therefore must be a source of job creation. with today's vote, the european parliament is sending a positive signal and is calling, by a large majority, for the european union, the member states and businesses to commit themselves firmly to the circular economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a european strategy on plastic waste in the environment. indeed, many european countries have a problem with recycling plastic. we have therefore called for specific legislation on plastics to recycle them as much as possible, to combat plastic waste on land and at sea and to reduce the consumption of plastic bags. this would potentially create 40,000 jobs in europe.
in writing. this text rightly advocates the reduction of plastic waste and its impact on the environment. the increase in plastic waste is having a significant impact on the environment and human health. that's why i encourage recycling of these materials, as well as their reuse and recovery, rather than landfilling and incineration.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to reduce the impact of plastic waste on the environment. if properly designed, some plastic recycling measures are part of a sustainable development logic and can also improve competitiveness and create new economic activities and jobs. at a time when environmental issues are the main concern of our citizens, i welcome such a text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as a continuation of my environmental concerns in the field of recycling, pollution control and environmental education. the report aims to reduce the impact of plastic waste on the environment and contributes to the eu's goals for a resource-efficient europe. the union must encourage member states to achieve better results in their own territory and encourage our european citizens to use good deeds in their daily lives. we also wanted to highlight some of the measures for recycling plastics that can improve competitiveness and create new economic activities and jobs. the european parliament has thus sent a strong message by providing concrete and constructive responses to the challenges posed by plastic waste.
in writing. this text takes the matter in the right direction, namely the overall reduction in plastic production, especially in the area of consumption, which affects 40% of european production. prevention, reuse, recycling and recovery are the way forward, and bad solutions such as bioplastics and incineration are out of the question. finally, the target of 75% recycled plastics by 2020 is interesting. however, i regret the lack of any real coercive measures to achieve ambitious targets for 2020 and the radical transformation of production methods. i am voting in favour of this report to support the progress made in this report.
in writing. this text proposes to create european legislation to combat the proliferation of plastic waste in the environment. the first area of improvement is packaging, which accounts for 40% of plastic waste. the method proposed for waste treatment, namely prevention, reuse, recycling and recovery, seems to me to be important and a step towards a circular economy. i have decided to support this report.
in writing. plastic waste is causing irreversible damage to our environment. it was therefore high time for the european union to develop a strategy for them. the report set a realistic target for the banning of hazardous plastic materials and certain plastic bags, and also asked the committee to introduce recycling targets. i voted for the adoption of this report for two reasons. firstly, it shows that the european union is doing everything in its power to improve environmental conditions by setting achievable targets. the industries concerned and the member states must be given the opportunity to adapt to these new targets. often ambitious goals are counterproductive. secondly, the report mentions the concepts of circular economy and sustainable economy. i remain firmly convinced that it is by innovating and investing in technological development, such as new recycling techniques, that we will be able to create jobs and gradually overcome this crisis. we must guarantee our citizens a cleaner environment while promoting a more efficient and competitive industry.
in writing. the plastics industry in europe generates about €300 billion in profits each year and employs 1.5 million people. however, this industry generates a significant amount of waste that is not always sustainably reprocessed, and is sometimes diverted illegally. it is in this sense that i have supported this report, with the aim of european legislation to allow a substantial reduction in plastic waste and to ensure that it is recycled in a special way according to the type of material or product. recycling will allow the reuse of plastic waste for the creation of new products and is a real long-term sustainable solution, both economically and environmentally.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a european strategy on plastic waste in the environment. noting that plastic waste accumulates in large quantities and persists in the environment for hundreds of years, killing marine life, causing toxic reactions and releasing endocrine disruptors and carcinogens, and that its known environmental impacts are still underestimated, it is important to mobilise to control this waste stream. the report proposes a more targeted and effective policy on the collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics and the strict implementation of the current rules on the matter. i can only support this initiative and encourage the phasing out of the use of plastic products or at least support the development of more sustainable plastics. it is to be hoped that this report will find real application, because we know that the european union's policy on the environment is often more ambitious in words than in deeds.
in writing. this is an own-initiative report on the promotion of regional identities. the work on this text has shown that caution is needed and that there should be no confusion with legally established and well-regulated labels. since this report has finally clarified this point and is simply presenting ways in which each territory can develop participatory democracy and promotion based on the definition of its identity, i supported it when i voted.
in writing. i voted for the report on the regional trade mark. indeed, our regions have symbols, regional products, etc. and we need to move towards better practices in rural economies in order to support them.
in writing. this text encourages the creation of a regional brand specific to the regions of the union. the establishment of this label of excellence would give them the opportunity to cooperate with each other through the exchange of good practice. moreover, it would help to raise the profile of the regions and provide them with the means to assert themselves in a globalised economy. this report would have a positive impact on tourism and gastronomy in the territories. in particular, it would help to consolidate local development in mountain regions and fragile areas by coordinating sets of goods and services specific to these regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, as the idea of defending a regional quality mark is now indispensable. it is appropriate to obtain official recognition of a european territorial quality mark in order to open up markets more widely to goods and services from new territorial projects. in concrete terms, the aim is to promote new development models for all rural areas, since the preservation of many of them depends on this. as a member of parliament from a constituency where agriculture is an important part of the economy, i am keen to support this project.
in writing. i supported the approach proposed by my colleague eric andrieu in his report on the concept of regional branding because i share his view that we need to change the concepts of current rural development policy and strengthen its place in the cap. the aim here is to propose ways of thinking about the future, in order to reconcile the local and global dimensions. the regional brand could also be a useful lever for creating jobs and enhancing the value of all the resources of the territories, also promoting a balanced (and more than necessary) relationship between rural and urban areas.
in writing. the report proposes the creation of regional brands to promote the marketing and development of local products, foodstuffs and other products. this idea could be in line with the short-circuit reinforcement i am proposing. but this text only talks about the "quality" of the labelled products without ever detailing the social and ecological conditions that should be supported. nor would it be reserved for small producers. the risk is therefore that it serves to pack the "terroir" of the productions of globalized groups still looking for a marketing coup. the périgord nuts can also be prepared in bavaria. in the agri-food sector, the report proposes that "the territorial mark of excellence should be limited to promoting pdo-pgi-gst quality schemes where they exist or supporting their creation where they do not exist". so this mark won't change anything. it is only likely to add one more label and thus confuse or, worse, dilute consumers, to the detriment of pdos and pgi already threatened by the transatlantic single market project. i vote against it.
in writing. protected designations of origin (pdos) and protected geographical indications (pgi) are seen as an effective system for promoting and recognising local and regional know-how that is culturally and economically important to safeguard. the regional quality label, which would complement it, pursues the objective of strengthening and developing territorial economies by coordinating sets of quality goods (food and non-food) and services rooted in the specificities of each territory. the project also meets the rural development objectives of the new common agricultural policy and the objective of ensuring a homogeneous regional development in the eu. that is why i supported the recommendations in this report when it was voted in plenary and i will be attentive to the european commission's reaction to the guidelines it contains.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the regional brand (towards better practices in rural economies). after a failed reform of the common agricultural policy, supporting this approach, which calls for a thorough rethinking of rural development policy within the cap by resolutely orienting it towards a territorial approach and allowing new initiatives to be launched in favour of agricultural employment, to enhance territories and promote participatory and dynamic governance with the actors in rural areas, can bring some palliatives. i have made it my own objective to move towards ecological agriculture, creating jobs and living countryside, and thus ensuring food sovereignty and fighting hunger throughout the world. it is to be hoped that this report will not remain a mere roadmap and that it will be followed by results, which is doubtful in the context of the new cap. so i have cast my vote with no illusions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that some texts are less bad than feared does not mean that they are satisfactory. this is particularly the case with the competitive procedure with negotiation. it has been enlarged but remains strictly limited. this is the case for access to public procurement for small and medium-sized enterprises. it has been facilitated but not really encouraged despite the possible use of allotment. this is the case with the unfair regulation of cooperation between public actors themselves, which will certainly create problems, and the questioning, despite formal declarations, of the authorities' freedom of choice for public service delegations. this is particularly true when environmental or social considerations are taken into account. this is not taken into account in the award of the contract. it does not allow for the application of the national or local priority as other speakers have pointed out. you have repeatedly stated that this reform is essential for recovery and employment. but for whose use? will it be in france for the employment of national or local unemployed or for the employment of posted workers from certain countries who, even if the laws or collective agreements are fully respected, remain cheaper than french labour? whatever you may say, the lowest cost will remain the decisive factor in the award of public contracts in a europe which imposes fiscal austerity and organises social dumping.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the agreement reached on this crucial issue for growth and employment, on which we have been working for several years, and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. public procurement, by virtue of its importance in the economy, is essential to fostering quality employment and environmental responsibility while providing quality services and products to citizens. these texts meet this challenge, in particular because we have finally abandoned the simplistic logic of the least-good, leaving the public authorities the possibility of choosing the best economic offer on the basis of qualitative, social and environmental criteria and taking into account the constraints faced by smes in accessing public contracts. i also expect the authorities of the member states to play their part in controlling the drift towards subcontracting and social dumping, since they will now have the legal tools to do so. finally, i regret that we have not been able to secure the reciprocity clause in both texts and i expect the commission to play its full part so that the union will no longer be naive and will no longer be the only one to set an example.
madam president, commissioner, i think we should first of all be pleased that, thanks to these two directives, we have finally in european law a clear distinction between public contracts and concessions, which is not always apparent in the debate. of course, when we talk about concessions, we are talking about service concessions and in the vast majority of cases we are talking about the concession of services of general economic interest, if not the delegation of public service. i would have liked to have seen this explicitly stated in such a way as to remove any ambiguity. this has not been possible, but it is very strongly implied, particularly by the references to article 14 and protocol 26. these two elements of the treaties relate to services of general economic interest and are finally incorporated into secondary legislation. i shall take up the main point: the freedom of the member states and public authorities to define what an sgei is and how they wish to organise and finance it. this is an important step towards the legal security of public action in the european union.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group will not be voting for this text. it will not approve it because what we are really defining is the scope for restrictions on european public procurement. will we reduce or restrict access to european markets in order to defend an industrial policy, in order to defend an economic policy when, for the first time, the european institutions have reduced the european budget and our capacity to invest? is it done on social and environmental grounds? no, we want to do this so that we can liberalize public markets all over the world. europe is an exception in the world, as it has defined the openness of public procurement by default. restricting public procurement is an exception. none of our economic partners in the world operate that way. all the economic partners operate by default because public procurement is a tool for economic policy, for reindustrialisation, for small and mediumsized enterprises. by reducing public procurement beyond five million, those that may have restrictions, we will not even defend small and mediumsized enterprises. we shall therefore vote against this text.
madam president, even if the text raises many differences among the members of this house and also among the member states, the commission's initiative has the merit of raising certain questions which seem to me to be essential on the balance of international trade, cohesion and the unity which europe wants and can display towards its partners. we have heard many criticisms, still today in the debates, particularly on its legitimacy and purpose, but it seems essential to recall that the consultations that have been carried out have shown that a majority of respondents share the commission's view on the degrees of openness and lack of reciprocity and, more specifically, that 75% of the representatives of the business world are in favour of union action through a legislative instrument. it is not a protectionist instrument to preserve our markets, as some would like to make it out to be, but a response to the real problem, namely that 50% of public contracts in the world are now closed to european companies because of protectionist measures. it is therefore legitimate to try to achieve real transparency and equal treatment among our partners and to consider the tools to achieve this. with this regulation we are simply giving ourselves the means to act. we are sending a clear message to our partners that the same rights will in future mean the same obligations. i would like to thank and congratulate mr caspary, who has done an excellent job of reconciling all the points of view on this text. i therefore call on the council to listen to the voice of the citizens.
in writing. the european commission is finally responding to the criticism, repeatedly voiced, that the european union opens up its public procurement much more than its other trading partners. it has long thought that the public procurement agreement, a recently revised instrument of the world trade organization, could be sufficient to defend us. but this is not the case, and this reciprocity instrument was designed not only to better defend european public procurement against unfair foreign offers, but also to be able to investigate and impose sanctions on countries that do not apply reciprocal opening conditions. the european commission will also have the right, on its own initiative or on request, to investigate restrictive procurement practices applied by third countries. this instrument is absolutely necessary in the present context and i hope that the work on the text can be completed quickly so that the regulation can enter into force as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner, may i offer you my best wishes, including the hope of being able to taste honey as it is produced by our bees and distributed by our beekeepers. the revision of the honey directive is symptomatic of the errors of judgment which may sometimes be made by elected officials. some of my colleagues, with good intentions, believe that they can consider pollen as an ingredient in honey, even though nature intended pollen to be a natural constituent of honey. does anyone have any questions about the egg? is the question raised whether the egg yolk is an ingredient or a natural component of the egg? pollen is naturally present in honey, regardless of whether the honey is extracted by the beekeeper or not. in no case do beekeepers intentionally add pollen to honey. yet some of my colleagues want to go against nature and deny this natural reality. i understand, of course, the important questions that arise behind this question. yes, i think consumers should be informed about the presence of trace amounts of gmos in food products and i fully support the rule that any ingredient containing at least 0.9% gmos is or should be labelled as such. but we're talking about ingredients here, not natural constituents like pollen. this rule does not and cannot apply to pollen or, even less so, to honey. i can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the beekeepers in my region, which is a beekeeping region, are very happy that this rule does not apply to honey. indeed, as my colleague mr davis has said, bees sometimes forage tens of kilometres from their hive in fields of all kinds and have no gps or high-tech system to avoid contact with gmos. i am not kidding, but let us get back to reality, it would be totally irresponsible to require all beekeepers to test every single pot of honey to make sure that the bees have not been in contact with gmos.
madam president, as i listen to this debate, i think it is really time to save the honey product because, under very technical circumstances, the vote tomorrow will be a crucial vote for the future of a beekeeping industry which is already unfortunately weakened by the fate of our bees. to consider pollen as an ingredient in honey is a scientific aberration. honey is present in the hive as a finished product. pollen is just one natural component. if honey were to be considered as being made up of ingredients, then it would be easy to manipulate it, to alter it. an ingredient can, by definition, be added, removed or altered. this would open the door to our markets for honey produced by industrial techniques, of which china, for example, is a major producer. has the commission considered the considerable economic burden that would be imposed on our beekeepers, who are often small producers, and who would then be subject to disproportionate labelling requirements? they would be forced to perform extremely expensive tests. the consumer's demand for information is, of course, legitimate, but it does not justify our taking the beekeeping industry hostage in the general debate on gm crops. in the name of a precautionary principle taken to its extreme, a whole sector is being murdered. pollen is just one of the ingredients in honey. to say otherwise is a threat to this product and is consumer misinformation. let's not get this wrong, the survival of our beekeepers depends on it. that is why i support the commission's proposal.
in writing. i consider pollen to be a constituent of honey and not an ingredient. the 'ingredient' approach would require gmo labelling for honey containing only a few grains, and this would be done on a random basis. this allows lots to be declared positive in certain countries that do not grow gmos. remember that, because of the biology of bees, their prey distance varies constantly depending on the food sources present, up to 13 km. considering pollen as an ingredient, with only 9 grains out of a total of 1000 grains of maize pollen, the presence of gmo pollen should be indicated, whereas this presence reduced to total pollen would only be 0.009% (i.e. 100 times less than the community labelling threshold for random presence set at 0.9%). this would have a devastating impact on the image of honey and on the future of the european beekeeping industry, which is already suffering from competition from foreign honey of lower quality and is expected to bear exorbitant analytical costs despite analytical uncertainties. if honey is no longer considered as a whole product but as a composite of ingredients, then it can be filtered, cut with other products, ultra-filtered or pasteurized.
in writing. parliament is expected to turn by beekeepers on this vote on the honey directive. will we create a legislative inflation that will upset the whole industry, or, on the contrary, will we want to protect ancestral know-how and many jobs? i would of course urge you to choose the second option and not to support an unfair and counterproductive legislative revolution. giving honey an ingredient status would force beekeepers to test all their lots and would lead to disproportionate or difficult to overcome production costs. the benefit to the consumer would also be very limited (obligatory labelling linked to ingredient status), compared with the new costs imposed on producers. pollen is a tiny component of honey and therefore does not deserve all this regulatory attention. let us show that the eu knows how to work with good sense and that the regulatory obsession is not as prevalent as eurosceptics would have us believe.
the main issue in the regulation we have been working on is to regulate the production of community statistics on trade in goods between member states. the regulation determines the powers of the commission and lays down the appropriate procedure to enable it to adopt measures under its powers. we have agreed to guarantee the efficient and free exchange of statistical data by establishing a coherent system. however, as regards the exchange of confidential data, the rapporteur has maintained in his text the idea of absolute confidentiality, which implies that no confidential data should be used for other purposes. while this principle may seem legitimate, i believe it is also extremely important not to exclude the existence of exceptional cases, otherwise we will be proposing legislation that is too manic and too rigid. these exceptions would allow the disclosure of such confidential information under certain conditions. this idea is not disconnected from the other texts since article 20 of regulation 223/2009 itself specifies that, in certain exceptional cases, statistical data may be disseminated and used for other purposes. this idea is not without its usefulness. this data could be used for tax purposes, which would be a first step towards tax harmonisation at european level. as you can see, these technical arguments are largely political. i wonder today why the rapporteur is reluctant to introduce this principle of openness into his text, despite our many attempts to reach a compromise. i have wanted to work in good faith with the rapporteur on this matter and i regret that i was not able to exchange as much information as was necessary. i am, of course, open to a compromise until the time of the vote, but i am not in a position to support the text as it stands.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the final compromise text agreed between the council and parliament, which the council adopted as its position at first reading on 15 november 2013. the commission considers that a good overall balance has been reached in terms of road safety, fair competition, working conditions for drivers and the interests of the manufacturing and haulage industries. the revised regulation will increase road safety by reducing the potential for tampering with the tachograph. higher standards for workshops entrusted with installing and calibrating the tachograph will also help to reduce fraud and manipulation. this will ensure better compliance with rules on driving times and rest periods. drivers will thus be better protected, road safety increased and fair competition assured. the proposal introduces a number of technological improvements such as a satellite positioning function and an interface for intelligent transport systems. furthermore, the new tachographs will allow control authorities to access them through remote communication, for the purpose of roadside controls. this will help reduce the administrative burden created by random checks on transport companies and make enforcement more effective. certain vehicles will be excluded from the scope of the regulation. the exemptions have been carefully balanced with the need to ensure road safety. notably craftsmen, for whom driving is not the main activity, will not have to use a tachograph within a 100 km radius of their centre of activities. this will also contribute to smarter legislation, to the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission thanks parliament for its good cooperation and looks forward to the endorsement of the council position at first reading, enabling the new smart tachograph to be placed on the market as soon as possible
for the gue/ngl group madam president, road transport is in a catastrophic employment situation, as evidenced by the situation of the transport company mory ducros, which is preparing to lay off thousands of employees in france. it is the reign of unfair competition based on social and environmental dumping that makes the union the shame of the developed world. the european union's lax competition system is giving an outrageous advantage to companies, often from outside the union, which are simply road slaves. this is a disaster for drivers but also for the safety of road users. so yes, to the smart tachograph, right now, because there's an emergency if we're going to stop the job massacre. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the union's objective should be to punish shareholders and beneficiaries of companies which destroy jobs in the member states by imposing slave-like working conditions on road drivers, conditions which often endanger the lives of all road users.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, some thirty years ago we opted for the 'all services' approach at the expense of industry. we now know that was a mistake. industry is in a deep crisis and we must re-industrialize europe. but the other mistake would be to believe that we can continue to have 28 isolated industrial strategies against four or five large global blocs that do us no favors. our naivety has cost us dearly, as in the case of the chinese photovoltaic system. we must reactivate the virtuous circle of investment, innovation, growth and employment. to do that, we have to play as a team and fight together. that is our message in this report. i am particularly proud to see that the solutions proposed in this text are very much in line with what we have been proposing in the epp group since the beginning of the crisis. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bütikofer, on this. what we must do is to provide industrial companies at all costs with the best tools to prosper and defend ourselves, particularly in the research and accumulation of know-how on standards to be imposed at world level and, of course, in our trade relations.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, it is time for reindustrialisation, very well. competition would no longer be the holy grail and we should be talking about industrial strategy again, very well. it is a pity that these reflections come after so much destruction of industrial jobs, destruction caused by the undermining of national industrial strategies in the name of the dogma of competition and free trade, without any thought being given to building a coherent strategy at european level to deal with our global competitors. yet when we are stronger together, airbus is here to demonstrate that. the question is no longer one of reindustrialisation, but of a new industrial revolution to meet the needs of the peoples of our union. to do that, we must take on finance and take control of it. it is not the financial markets that finance industry, but industry that sees its surplus value confiscated by the financial markets. for example, we must urgently ban lbo, which is destroying our industrial fabric. the priority must be to tackle the cost of capital rather than labour, which is the only source of wealth creation. patents must be freed from the clutches of the financial funds and become the property of the employees who have made them possible, including by generalizing creative commons licenses. and it also takes the audacity to rethink our entire manufacturing system in the face of major innovations, like 3d printing. this means giving employees and creators in companies power, relocating, thinking from the point of view of use value and not exchange value, creating third places everywhere and, sometimes, questioning the private ownership of productions and designs.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, dear antonis samaras, prime minister of greece, ladies and gentlemen, before i begin, i would like to say a few words about our vice-president papastamkos, who is struggling to recover from his illness at the beginning of the year and who greets you. so it's a huge step forward that he's making. (applause) i would like to thank dear prime minister, i would also like to remind you this morning of the difficult times we had before you became prime minister and when i was among the only ones still defending greece and antonis samaras who was to become its future prime minister, to try to avoid the bankruptcy of the country. these are unforgettable moments and i'm very proud today that you can be here today with a result. it's true, not everything is perfect. but compared to the difficult times we had in my office, there is a very clear improvement and the bankruptcy did not take place. we have lied to all those ominous birds who said that europe was fucked and that it was useless. solidarity europe exists, it has existed through what we have done together in our offices instead of making grand speeches. i'm very proud of it today. on the basis of such experience, i am convinced that this presidency will be a success, which is a difficult presidency as we enter the electoral campaign, let us not forget, but we will continue to work until april. with the crisis, we were able to measure how interconnected we were. we have seen that europe has a role to play here too, despite what we hear every day. i believe that the democratic parties must continue to work in this direction. it is a pity that we do not have another year before the elections, but at the end of the day we will see that where the efforts are made, where the right decisions are taken, we are going in the right direction. but that's not enough. i admire the efforts of the greek people, which i saw when i was in the country and have been there many times recently. these efforts, together with the support, balance and solidarity shown at the level of the family and the family environment, are also examples of the difficult times we have experienced in greece. mr. prime minister, i admire your determination, you hold the line with hope. the numbers tell you you're on the right track. your country has reached primary equilibrium. that's good. but that's not enough. now we have to launch a second action. this is true for the whole of europe: in the field of youth unemployment, in the field of enterprises, we now have the duty to show that we are capable of taking action here too. i'll give you two examples, because i like to give examples. as you know, i'm a farmer; we're changing the hardware. whether in the sme sector or in agriculture, we negotiate prices with companies and, in the end, we have practically zero rates: 0.9% rates after negotiating the equipment. the greek farmer and the greek smes are faced with 10% rates! on this point, my friends, we must intervene immediately at the level of greece. that is how we will get jobs back or at least not lose any more. here's what you do. that is solidarity, mr farage. solidarity or bankruptcy! that's exactly what we're doing, and we're gonna get there! we'll get there, we have solutions. we will work on this dossier so that the european economy is also solidary in terms of employment. this means that we now have opportunities and therefore new jobs. the budgetary consolidation of public budgets requires that no more money be spent than is earned. so, my dear prime minister, you can give trainings at council level to show what needs to be done and, above all, what should not be done to many heads of state and government at european level. european solidarity must play a role, safeguarding employment and this requires more social and fiscal harmonization at european level. i have had a long discussion on this subject with the greek trade unionists for two hours. i explained to them that it was also their responsibility to continue working towards this fiscal and social harmonization very quickly to avoid relocations. i am convinced that if we move forward with them on this matter, there will be less relocation and less distortion of competition. i also suggested that they should take inspiration from the european institutions which have recently raised the retirement age to 67. it's a phenomenon that exists, that nobody talks about, but i also think it should be talked about. it would be a good example if it could be applied throughout europe. we need rules all over europe. take the finance department. we must not waste time and set up the banking union, but we must have a good agreement. you know my determination on the six-pack, you know my determination on the budget. we want a good deal. we have proposals on the table, but that is not enough. we must improve these proposals and make them fairer. we can then move forward, and i am counting, mr prime minister, on the good sense of the council and of course the good sense of parliament to achieve this improvement. we'll find a solution together, but not just any solution. it will be community or it will not be. i'm telling you here today, as i did for the six-pack and as i did for the budget. that's very clear! greece is well aware of the subject. we know that the debts of the banks are held by other banks at european level, whether german, british or otherwise, and that if the banking sector had collapsed in greece, the collapse of the european economies would have followed, which would have been absurd. that is why europe must act. if there is one lesson that the greek people can learn, it is that european solidarity exists, that only with europe can concrete and lasting solutions be found for employment, for young people and for smes. this is a very important moment, and we're going to work together and we're going to support you. i know you'll support us as well. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, mr prime minister, my first words will be to express our confidence in you and your government to take over the presidency in the light of what the president of the group has said. you have a secret, mr prime minister, and that is that you have made national union and i believe that this is the right political response when there are problems of government like the ones you are facing, and this is what is done in lithuania and ireland, which preceded you. i would like to address you as a member of the european council, as a co-legislator and as a budgetary authority. firstly, as a member of the european council, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his mr prime minister, we have a problem, we cannot debate with the heads of state or government. mr van rompuy has never been in this house, article 15 of the treaty is being violated. i have checked, madam president, that it was the president of parliament, or his services, who did not want the president of the european council to come. i say this because i did not like being caricatured on the fact that parliament did not meet at christmas. would you, mr prime minister, be willing to come and prepare the meetings of the european council, as the treaty allows you to do, as president of the general affairs council? so we would have political debates. i was fortunate to have served in both parliaments, and we had very interesting debates with the president of the council when she was president of the european council. i would also like to ask you how you, as a co-legislator, see the trio of presidencies, a device about which very little has been said, since you are going to close the current trio of presidencies. i would like to conclude on the european elections. you're the last chairman before the election. could you give us an overall assessment of the presidency of the council which would be useful for the political debate during these elections? on this basis and also during the mid-term evaluation of the europe 2020 strategy, which will start with the spring european council, we could debate in the run-up to the 2014 elections and thus prepare as the budgetary authority the 2016 policy review clause which is included in the 2014-2020 financial framework.
madam president, mr president, i am one of the members who are confident in the contribution that greece will make in this decisive period of renewal of our assembly. four effective months that force you to make choices and i welcome the priorities announced. your presidency shows that a member state, even in difficulty, can assert a european will, a will for the european union. for those who want to use greece and its citizens as hostages of anti-european propaganda by exploiting their plight, this is a message of hope. we all have a stake in the success of this presidency, to prove that no one is doomed to failure, even if solidarity has been slow to show for your country. this is a perfect illustration of the need to share debts fairly and sustainably. under your presidency, we have the opportunity and the duty to strengthen the european social model and to contribute to economic recovery. it requires the choice of a productive economy and a more ambitious growth pact. the banking union is a condition, but support for employment, youth employment and local employment is a necessity. we must also use the budget to invest in innovative and job-creating sectors and develop financial instruments for large infrastructure and smes. i have noted that you stress the importance of longterm investment to avoid the risk of a jobless recovery. i'm with you. i will also stress the democratic control of national and european parliaments, because it is only through greater transparency that we can restore the confidence of the citizens. finally, we are voting today on a report on the reindustrialisation of europe. we want concrete results on this issue and on the energy transition, which has a major impact on the cost of energy, competitiveness and purchasing power. finally, during this week, strasbourg hosts a conference on social entrepreneurship. we'll let you know what we find. i am convinced that the greek presidency will also be able to embody this vision of a social and solidarity-based economy. i wish you good luck and success.
mr president, on 6 january, on a flight between sofia and varna, a member of the staff of the french embassy in bulgaria was attacked and insulted and threatened because he was a french national. the perpetrator of the attack is a bulgarian mp, mr siderov, chairman of the far-right ataka party. i would like to condemn, as the president of the french delegation to the epp group, this conduct unworthy of a politician and i am surprised that the bulgarian government has not condemned this behaviour. i should add that to my knowledge mr stanichev, the chairman of the bulgarian socialist party, has not condemned this behaviour either. i hope that the difficult political balance, which led the bulgarian national assembly, following the parliamentary elections in may 2013, to hand over the government to a political coalition led by the socialists with the implicit support of the far-right ataka party, is not the cause of this silence.
mr president, we have just had an important vote which will be the first of the next parliamentary term. i want it to be noted in the minutes that i consider the procedure which has been used to reach this compromise to be quite contrary to democratic practice. we have never been able to discuss this procedure in the conference of committee chairmen, nor in the great conference of group chairmen. this negotiation was conducted at the level of the secretaries-general of the political groups without any debate either between members or between committees. it's not good practice, it's not good governance, and i wanted to bring that up.
in writing. as this mandate draws to a close, the european parliament has decided to update the powers of the various parliamentary committees for the next term. several clarifications were made, particularly for the committee on the environment, which is more clearly in charge of climate change. i voted in favour of this decision, in agreement with the amendments.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the powers and responsibilities of parliamentary committees. the aim of this text is to amend the areas of expertise of each of the european parliament's standing committees in order to adapt them to the current legislative context. the amendments which have been made will enter into force during the next parliamentary term of the european parliament. i welcome the adoption of this decision.
in writing. the question is to determine the powers of parliamentary committees. and so to determine the powers of parliament on various subjects. it is noted that the internal market commission has the task of 'removing potential obstacles to the completion of the single market'. it's a lot of work to create a work environment. in line with my criticisms of the functioning of the european institutions, i am opposed to these powers which restrict the freedom of parliamentarians in their deliberations by imposing a restrictive and targeted framework on them. i vote against it.
in writing. one of the tasks of parliament is to determine the timetable for its sessions. this calendar is somewhat fanciful, since it provides for 'mini-sessions' in brussels, even though we have no certainty as to the progress of the work on the roof of the brussels chamber. i also regret that once again this calendar ignores national commemorations as important as those celebrated on 11 november in several countries of the union (france, belgium, united kingdom), a date of particular importance for the history of europe. or the 14th of july, which opened the "modern era", as the poet goethe put it. this indifference of the parliamentary calendar to history and to the memory which justifies the construction of europe is lamentable. this calendar seems to have at least the merit of thwarting attempts to suppress the sessions in strasbourg, preserving the political and geopolitical importance of the seat of the parliamentary institution in strasbourg. i vote for it.
in writing. the present case concerns a technical decision to terminate a programme which was to run from 2004 to 2013. so i supported the repeal.
in writing. by abrogating this decision establishing the specific programme prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security-related risks for the financial year 2007/2013, the european parliament makes the legal changes necessary to ensure the continuity of the union's actions in terms of the fight against terrorism and more specifically european police cooperation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text in order to streamline the european union's action in the field of security. to that end, within the overall framework of the internal security fund, the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, the prevention and repression of crime and crisis management will provide financial support for police cooperation. the aim of this proposal is to prevent and prepare for terrorist attacks and other security risks and to protect people and critical infrastructure against these phenomena, which i welcome.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague juan fernando lópez aguilar on the repeal of council decision 2007/124/ec, euratom establishing the specific programme 'prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security related risks' for the period 2007-2013. the aim is to repeal a decision for the period 2007-13 whose tasks and financing will be carried out by a new common programme for the period 2014-2020. this text was adopted by a very large majority, with 648 votes in favour, 19 against and 9 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. the specific programme on the prevention, preparedness and consequence management of terrorism and other security related risks (cips), currently in force, was established for the period 2007-2013. it aims to prevent, prepare for and protect people and critical infrastructure against terrorist attacks and other security-related risks. for the period 2014-2020, this programme will be replaced by the internal security funds ('isf-police'). in view of the dual legal basis (ec, euratom) chosen for the adoption of the cips specific programme, a separate legislative act is necessary for its repeal. this is a technical decision in a kafkaesque universe of devices, which will not have a noticeable influence on the internal security policy of the european union, which would need to be reviewed in depth. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which renews our agreement with the russian federation on cooperation in the field of science and technology. despite our political differences, it is important to maintain links between our countries in order to influence it in the longer term: a manifestation of the use of the european union's 'soft power'.
in writing. i support the renewal of the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and russia. the agreement appears to be mutually beneficial and establishes continuity in scientific and technological cooperation for a further five-year period.
in writing. i voted in favour of the renewal of the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european union and the government of the russian federation for the period 2014-2019. considers it important for the european union to maintain cooperation agreements with russia in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague amalia sartori on the renewal of the eu-russia agreement on cooperation in science and technology. this renewal will extend bilateral relations in these areas and give a positive impetus to the conclusion of a future eu-russia comprehensive agreement. the text was adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. the council calls for the renewal of an agreement between russia and the european community and its member states in the field of science and technology, which has existed since 1997. this agreement has already shown its interest in the past. for example, it helped develop the copernicus programme, studying the impact of human activities on the planet, and developed research activities on non-nuclear energy. science in russia is one of the most advanced in the world, a legacy of the soviet union. it is part of the new framework programme 2014-2020, 'horizon 2020', which was voted on last november and which i deplored for the forced convergence between research and the economy, i.e. the concentration of research resources for the purpose of bringing new products to the market. however, other cooperation programmes exist and can lead to interesting research, as the above results show. i vote for it.
in writing. this is a technical regulation, consisting only of a codification of existing acts. i therefore supported this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. the vote by a very large majority on this text seems to me legitimate. replacing the indicative values in european legislation with the actual values relating to the thickness of euro coins ensures that confidence can be placed in these coins. this also helps to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague jean-paul gauzès on the unit values and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation. the text considers in particular that the single system of the union's coins makes it possible to combat counterfeiting. the text was adopted by a very large majority, with 627 votes in favour, 10 against and 42 abstentions. i'm very pleased with this adoption.
in writing. this text is essentially technical. it aims to amend the thickness values of euro coins in a regulation to reflect the actual thickness and no longer an indicative value as is the case so far. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. but the report also takes the opportunity to endorse an unacceptable commission proposal. the european commission is proposing that it and the council can refuse the design that a state wishes to see on the euro coins it prints, a right recognised since the creation of the euro. above all, this text provides an opportunity to reiterate our desire for a break in the functioning of the euro and the ecb. i refuse to endorse any technical change until the fundamental political changes have taken place. i vote against it.
in writing. the association of southeast asian nations (asean) is a political, economic and cultural organization of ten southeast asian countries that was founded in 1967. i voted in favour of this text, which takes note of the efforts to integrate this high-growth area of the world and calls for closer relations between these two prosperous trading regions.
in writing. asean (association of south east asian nations) is an emerging force with common political and economic interests with the european union. maintaining good relations and strengthening our cooperation with this regional organisation helps to develop an environment conducive to trade between europe and south-east asia.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which looks at the possibilities of improving the european union's contributions to the asean integration process. however, the strengthening of economic relations must be adapted to the specificities of the region and the socio-political and institutional relations more appropriate to this same situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague reinhard butikofer on the future of relations between the eu and asean, one of the world's leading emerging regional organisations, both economically and geopolitically. the text supports the strengthening of relations with the organisation in areas ranging from strategic dialogue to fundamental rights. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the final objective of this report on the development of links with the association of south east asian nations (asean) is to prepare the free trade agreements still under negotiation with these countries. the report does, however, contain some good elements, including encouragement of respect for human rights, the distribution of wealth, the development of social protection systems and respect for international conventions on working conditions. at the same time, it advocates the liberalisation of the labour market, which, like the eu, involves the creation of a common market in asean, thus revealing its true face. in the same neoliberal logic, it encourages consultation with the imf and the wto. finally, he called on the eu to 'convince public opinion in these countries' of the validity of the neoliberal agreements. i vote against it.
in writing. asean has, in recent years, evolved towards a more integrated and institutionalised economic and political structure. like the member states of the european union, these countries have decided to join forces in order to consolidate their position on the international scene. it was therefore essential to adapt relations between the union and asean to these new elements. i am very pleased that such a report has been adopted. asean and the union share important common political and economic values and interests. it would therefore be good to move these relations towards a strategic partnership. as a pioneer in this type of integration, the european union should support asean in its efforts. the aim of the new strategy is to create an internal market for 600 million people by 2015. as europeans, we must participate in this ambitious process of peaceful regionalisation.
in writing. the tachograph is an important instrument in the transport sector because it allows the control of the working and resting times of road drivers. the report aims to update the regulation in force since 1985, to limit the risk of fraud and thus to strengthen road safety and fair competition between operators in the transport sector. i therefore voted in favour of this legislation.
in writing. i support the improvement of the tachograph control system in road transport. this system makes it possible to combat fraud against european social legislation effectively, while reducing administrative burdens. the use of new technologies such as gnss to achieve these objectives seems to me to be particularly interesting.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, the essence of which is to revise council regulation (eec) no 3821/85 in order to improve the tachograph control system. i welcome this proposal which aims to improve compliance with social legislation and reduce unnecessary administrative burdens by developing the technical aspects of the tachograph and improving its efficiency.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague silvia-adriana ticau, which modernises the on-board control systems in road transport and improves the means of monitoring them in order to ensure compliance with social standards in this sector, in particular with regard to driver rest. so i welcome the adoption of her.
in writing. the tachograph is used in road transport to monitor compliance with the rules on driving time and rest periods in the interests of road safety, decent working conditions for drivers and fair competition between transport undertakings. the proposed regulation, which will replace the regulation in force since 1985, aims to make fraud more difficult, to improve the enforcement of social legislation and to reduce the administrative burden by making full use of new technologies and introducing a number of new regulatory provisions. unfortunately, the council proposal does not take up the positions expressed by parliament at first reading: the possibility for drivers to call a free number to request a check anonymously (thus avoiding fraud by employers during working hours), or the definition of a 'daily working period' which was more favourable to employees. however, i abstain in order to improve the working conditions of drivers.
in writing. the european parliament delivered its opinion on wednesday 15 january on the widespread use of smart tachographs. these devices which record information on the journeys of heavy goods vehicles are used to monitor compliance with labour law by transport companies which, as we know, use methods which are unworthy of their employees. i voted for the general use of this tool, which is indispensable in the fight against the excessive abuses of road transport companies, which are by their nature difficult to control, but let us be vigilant. such a tool collects a great deal of data, and should not be used against employees. and let us not be delusional, if this is a positive step towards more control of existing legislation that must be respected, it is not enough. to prevent social dumping on the road, the european union must at least have legislation to prohibit cabotage and better coordinated social legislation in the interests of employees, which means taking competition out of the centre of its actions.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a directive is to lay down rules on the award of works or service concession contracts. today, concessions are not subject to a clear legislative framework at european level, unlike public procurement. it is therefore necessary to clarify the legal framework and to establish clear and effective rules. i believe that the agreement before us is a balanced compromise, given the difficulties of the file, and i have voted in favour of it and i congratulate my colleague, the rapporteur, mr philippe juvin, who has done a great deal of work.
in writing. i welcome the fact that this report has been adopted by a large majority of meps. the commission's original proposal, which made no reference to public services, was reworked over a period of two years. i tabled a number of amendments to include references to article 14 tfeu and protocol 26, in particular to affirm the freedom of states and local authorities to organise and finance sgeis. the amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos and to the risk of asbestos-related products, which are not covered by the directive, are designed to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised.
in writing. this report provides for the establishment of clear and uniform rules governing the award of concession contracts at union level. the text gives the union the necessary tools to combat the risks of unfair competition while facilitating access to the concession market. less stringent criteria for selection and exclusion from market access are established. it also helps to avoid the obstacles of excessive bureaucracy.
in writing. the proposal for a directive published by the commission on 20 december 2011, for which i am the rapporteur in the european parliament, aims to define rules for the award of works or service concession contracts. the text adopted on 15 january 2014 in plenary following the agreement reached in the trilogue last july between the three institutions (european parliament, european commission and council) after almost two years of work is a major step forward in strengthening the internal market. it creates a new legal framework which is robust, clear, pragmatic and adapted to the specific nature of the concession. it strikes the right balance between the need for flexibility and leeway for public authorities on the one hand and the need for transparency and non-discrimination for economic operators on the other. the original legislative proposal of the european commission has been substantially rewritten, in particular to clarify the concept of concession and to introduce the necessary flexibility in the negotiation procedure. the final text preserves the free administration of the public authorities (the right to choose the mode of management of their public works and services which they consider most appropriate: concession, management, inter-municipal cooperation, etc.) and constitutes a balanced compromise.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the concession award directive in conjunction with the other two items on the agenda for this plenary on public procurement. as a green/efa group we had initially voted against in the imco commission but the negotiations during the trilogue had resulted in the removal of public water services from the directive, which was one of the key points for us. we were very much afraid that this would lead to privatisation of the water sector, which we are firmly opposed to. i am pleased that the mobilisation of civil society at european level, with the european citizens' initiative on water, has borne fruit and shown that convergent actions inside and outside parliament can contribute to real policy changes that impact on citizens' daily lives. in the field of public-public cooperation, a satisfactory solution has also been found with a fairly broad definition of this concept, leaving sufficient room for manoeuvre for public authorities both horizontally and vertically.
in writing. the rapporteur believes that the aim is to facilitate access for smes to the concession market while establishing a regulatory framework for the award of such concessions. more precisely, it is a question of opening up the market a little more. even if the water services sector is excluded from the scope of the directive and local authorities remain free to organise their public services, the safeguards are not sufficient. i vote against it.
in writing. concessions represent a significant part of the economic activity of the european union. until then, no text had been adapted to this specific case, leading to growing legal uncertainty and instability. the adoption of a directive explicitly mentioning the award of concession contracts was therefore a necessary step in order to make the european legal framework as transparent as possible. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report with a view to creating a directive on concession contracts. the directive will put an end to distortions of the single market such as favouritism and lack of transparency. every company will now be guaranteed fair access to the concession market. we will emerge from this crisis, which has been raging for years, with a more transparent, stable and secure european economy. this type of report enables us, step by step, to build a european union that lives up to its ambitions.
in writing. until now, there has been no european legislation on the award of concession contracts. the current situation is very heterogeneous: some member states fully regulate this form of public procurement (france in particular), while others have no rules at all - which can encourage an opaque use of public funds. in order to boost the european internal market and bring more transparency to this form of public procurement, the commission has proposed to establish a number of common rules for the award of concession contracts in europe. the final text, which was the result of long negotiations, seems to me to be balanced. i am pleased to see that it does not fall into the trap of over-regulation, but rather sets out general principles and a common definition of 'concession'. for all these reasons, i support it.
in writing. i abstained on this report. there was no legislative framework in france for 'public service delegations' which allow the authorities to transfer the management of a public service or public works to an undertaking. it is not necessary to mention the deviations in this sector where the lack of a legislative framework in this area gradually led to treating public service concessions as simple public contracts without taking into account the specific nature of this mode of public management. the report recalls that the authorities decide autonomously whether it is preferable for them alone to provide goods and services of general interest and that the concern to satisfy the needs of the population takes precedence over compliance with the internal market criteria. this report improves on the commission's original proposal but it is sometimes lacking in firmness and leaves a number of questions unresolved. the legislator has therefore not fully assumed his role, even if we stick to it within the framework of the current european treaties. this is a battle that will have to be fought further, particularly in the next european elections campaign.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a directive is to update the 2004 directive on the award of public contracts. the aim is to simplify and relax the existing rules, to improve the consideration of societal objectives (energy efficiency, social inclusion) and to reduce the structural disadvantages faced by smes in accessing public procurement. as with the concession dossier, i consider that the agreement reached in the trilogue with the council and the commission on this text is satisfactory, and i therefore voted in favour of the report presented by my colleague, mr marc tarabella.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text on public procurement. i particularly welcome the freedom left to the public authorities to choose not only the lowest price offer but also the 'most economically advantageous offer'. this allows them to base their choice on social and environmental criteria. the responsibility of the subcontracting chain, which will make it possible to combat social dumping, is also a major step forward.
in writing. the adoption of this text is the culmination of successful negotiations to adapt european public procurement legislation to economic and social developments in recent years. the need to strike a balance between simplified rules and sound and efficient procedures was emphasised. i particularly encourage the use of the 'code of good practice facilitating access to public procurement for smes', which promotes the integration of smes into public procurement.
in writing. although the reform of public procurement, which represents 18% of european gdp, was one of the priorities of the single european act, nothing had been done for 10 years. public procurement is a real strategic lever for jobs and growth in europe. the updating of public procurement rules in europe is therefore a step in the right direction. the legislative package, which will enter into force in 2016, changes the award criteria for contracts. in future, it will favour the most economically advantageous offers over the lowest ones. this will make it possible to take greater account of social and environmental aspects in tendering procedures, as well as international agreements and collective agreements. for example, abnormally low tenders - because they are linked to breaches of social or environmental legislation - will be automatically excluded. the use of subcontractors should also be made more transparent. finally, access to public procurement for smes will be facilitated by the use of contract allocation and the reduction of administrative burdens.
in writing. i supported this report on the award of public contracts, which is the result of an agreement reached in a trilogue last july between the three institutions (european parliament, european commission, council). the text adopted revises the existing directive 2004/18/ec and allows for the modernisation and simplification of the rules in force in this area: strategic use of public procurement, facilitation of access to contracts for small and medium-sized enterprises, dematerialization of procedures, and increased quality and transparency of award procedures. this modernisation of the rules was expected; the european parliament had previously published an own-initiative report on this subject. the result is an excellent compromise.
in writing. this directive lays down the rules governing public procurement. it introduces a mandatory social clause guaranteeing respect for labour law and collective agreements at the workplace. even if the principle of accountability throughout the subcontracting chain has not been respected, the new rules should improve its transparency. the european trade union confederation supports the progress made in this report. i'm not going to.
in writing. in this time of crisis, it is necessary to take all the measures in our power to enable our companies to remain competitive within the union. i therefore support the report on public procurement, which is aimed at simplifying the rules governing relations between public authorities and the economic sector. this will mean that smaller, but nevertheless vital players in our economy, such as smes, will no longer be disadvantaged by tedious bureaucracy and will be able to flourish. the directive proposes the creation of a european economic market which respects the social rights of citizens and is concerned about their environmental welfare. it is essential to ensure that our companies respect these rights. the question now is to choose the most appropriate offer, not necessarily the cheapest, which will allow the creation of a fair european market. i am glad that such a report has been adopted by the members of this house. i remain convinced that it is with this kind of initiative that we will succeed in building a stronger europe, capable of meeting the challenges of our time.
in writing. public procurement represents 18% of european gdp and is an important lever for achieving objectives such as sustainable development, inclusive growth, innovation and the development of smes. in the current economic climate, it is essential to allocate public money in the best possible way. that is the purpose of this reform, and i wholeheartedly support it. the most important point seems to me to be the replacement of the criterion of the lowest price in the award of public contracts by that of the 'most economically advantageous tender'. this will allow public authorities to place greater emphasis on quality, environmental and social aspects, while taking into account price and life cycle costs of supply. in future, quality will be at the heart of european public procurement, and i welcome this. the reform will also boost innovation, facilitate the participation of small firms in public procurement, combat abnormally low tenders, and provide for more stringent rules on subcontracting, thus combating social dumping and non-compliance with labour law. member states now have 24 months to transpose these new rules.
in writing. public authorities in europe spend the equivalent of 18% of gdp on infrastructure and public services. a fifth of this expenditure is made by inviting private companies to tender, under procedures known as 'public procurement' or 'concession contract'. in order to avoid any favouritism, unfair competition or patronage, i voted in favour of this major reform of the existing rules. thanks to the work of our assembly, the tendering procedures will be simplified. they will also make it possible to add ecological and social criteria so that the lowest cost candidate is no longer the only one to be favoured, and will promote access to public contracts for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. i voted in favour of this very important text on the european union's trade policy and reciprocity in access to public procurement. it is a technical text but it is crucial for the health of the european economy. public procurement accounts for between 15 and 20% of the european union's economy and many companies - particularly french companies - are highly competitive in this sector. at present, european public procurement is very open, which means that foreign companies can come and compete directly with european companies on european soil. our main trading partners, the united states and japan, on the contrary, give preference to their national companies when awarding public contracts: 32 per cent of us public contracts are open to european companies and only 28 per cent in japan. the adoption of this text, which provides for reciprocity in public procurement, will therefore make european companies better able to fight foreign competition, which will be beneficial for our economy and for jobs in europe! i therefore supported this report when it was put to the vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on public procurement. it is the result of a long struggle by the european parliament against the liberal approaches advocated by the commission and most of the member states in this field. so we were very careful. the report gives public authorities more leeway in public procurement by reinforcing the obligation to respect social standards in procurement procedures: award criteria will no longer be based solely on the lowest cost but may take account of social and environmental objectives. in addition, any company that has breached its obligations under social, environmental or labour law can now be automatically excluded and the possibility of promoting a principle of responsibility in the subcontracting chain has been introduced to ensure that all economic actors respect the rights of workers. finally, the report confirms the creation of a special regime for social services of general interest which will not be covered by these rules when they are organised on a non-profit-making basis. if not, they will be so only from a threshold of eur 1 million.
in writing. i welcome this vote, which endorses a thorough modernisation of public procurement in the european union, a sector which represents 19% of european gdp. thanks to the hard work of the european socialists, the agreement reached in these legislation, which are crucial for growth and employment, brings a major change: the choice of the contracting authority will be based on the most economically advantageous tender, and no longer on the sole basis of the lowest price. the difference is fundamental: social and environmental criteria will therefore be taken into account, as will sustainability. these provisions are also extended to the subcontracting chain, the regulation of which is included in a european text for the first time, in particular to combat social dumping. these texts will make public spending more efficient while simplifying procedures for smes and their access to markets. as for local authorities, their autonomy of choice is reinforced by legal clarification between public procurement and concessions, and by the exclusion of 'public-public' cooperation and certain sectors for concessions, such as water, transport, energy, civil protection, or emergency services.
in writing. the proposal for a directive aims to update the 2004 directive on the award of public contracts in certain specific sectors (water, energy, transport and postal services). as with the revision of the public procurement directive, the aim is to simplify and relax the existing rules, to improve the consideration of societal objectives (energy efficiency, social inclusion) and to reduce the structural disadvantages faced by smes in accessing public procurement. i also supported this report, considering it a balanced compromise between the three institutions.
in writing. i support modernising the rules on procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. the flexibility of the existing rules in this area will help to simplify procurement in these sectors and increase their efficiency. the text rightly provides, for example, for the facilitation of public procurement that encourages innovation.
in writing. although the reform of public procurement, which represents 18% of european gdp, was one of the priorities of the single european act, nothing had been done for 10 years. public procurement is a real strategic lever for jobs and growth in europe. the updating of public procurement rules in europe is therefore a step in the right direction. the legislative package, which will enter into force in 2016, changes the award criteria for contracts. in future, it will favour the most economically advantageous offers over the lowest ones. this will make it possible to take greater account of social and environmental aspects in tendering procedures, as well as international agreements and collective agreements. for example, abnormally low tenders - because they are linked to breaches of social or environmental legislation - will be automatically excluded. the use of subcontractors should also be made more transparent. finally, access to public procurement for smes will be facilitated by the use of contract allocation and the reduction of administrative burdens.
in writing. i supported this report on the award of public contracts in the so-called special sectors (water, energy, transport, postal services), which is the result of an agreement reached in the trilogue last july between the three institutions (european parliament, european commission, council) as part of a comprehensive package on public procurement and concession contracts. the text adopted revises the existing directive 2004/17/ec and allows the modernisation and simplification of the existing rules in this area. the result is a balanced compromise.
in writing. this directive lays down the rules governing the award of contracts by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. the aim is to develop provisions to coordinate the award procedures in order to guarantee openness to competition. i am opposed to the liberalization of these sectors and therefore cannot support this report. however, these procurements should be regulated in order to ensure equal treatment, non-discrimination, mutual recognition, proportionality and transparency. i vote against the privatisation of the sectors concerned.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on public procurement in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. like the more general report on public procurement, it is the result of a long struggle by the european parliament against the liberal drift of the commission and some member states. the report gives public authorities more room for manoeuvre by reinforcing the obligation to respect social standards in procurement procedures. and we know that there are deviations in this area, particularly in france, where the public authorities have found themselves without recourse to the large companies in the sector. in addition, social and environmental objectives will be part of the award criteria, not just the lowest cost. the principle of responsibility in the subcontracting chain is introduced. the creation of a special scheme for social services of general interest, setting a threshold of eur 1 million and excluding non-profit-making from the criteria, is confirmed. the report is imperfect, does not go far enough, but does present some advances compared to the current texts. it is part of the battles fought, in particular, within the framework of the intergroup on public services, of which i am vice-president with the ssig collective.
in writing. i supported this proposal for a regulation which aims to require our trading partners to be genuinely reciprocal in their access to public contracts. while 85% of eu public contracts are open to international competition, only 32% of us public contracts are open to european operators and 28% to japanese, not to mention china and india, where reciprocity is very low. it is therefore imperative that reciprocity be strengthened and this regulation is a good step in that direction.
in writing. this text reflects the european union's efforts to open up public procurement to its companies in third countries. the european union is indeed committed to increasing trade. the text thus aims to encourage third countries to open up their markets by regulating the access of foreign products and services to european public procurement. in order to continue these negotiations, it seems particularly reasonable to ensure that the principle of uniformity of the common commercial policy is preserved by including the award of contracts.
in writing. by voting on access of goods and services to the public procurement market, parliament sent a strong message to the rest of the world about the principle of reciprocity in trade relations. at present, some public contracts in third countries are still not open to european companies and investments, whereas our markets are open to the rest of the world. the eu therefore decided to give itself the opportunity to react by closing its markets to companies from countries that do not play fairly in international competition. the decision to exclude companies from 'unfair' countries from european public procurement is taken by the commission. however, the national authorities of the 28 may, in the name of the principle of commercial reciprocity, request authorisation to exclude a particular country from their markets.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as this is a first since for the first time the union has concluded a regional bilateral agreement with countries in black africa, excluding south africa. the nature of the agreement, which has been ratified by four states, has to some extent preserved the specific dimension of regional integration, which remains one of the objectives of the economic partnership agreement.
in writing. it is with a heavy heart that i abstained on mr caspary's report. in the present context, it seems logical to want to set up reciprocity instruments or to influence the opening up of public procurement in third countries whose companies already have access to public procurement in the european union. the problem is the general philosophy behind the text. while almost all countries in the world restrict access to public procurement, considering that taxpayers' money should primarily serve national objectives and benefit national companies, the european union has made the exact opposite choice. it has opted for total openness to global competition, to the extent that 90% of its public contracts are now fully competitive. the only real solution is the introduction of national rules of exclusivity and protection, which will encourage local businesses and employment. it is no longer possible, in a context of overtaxation which is legitimately being contested, to use taxpayers' money for the benefit of foreign companies in the name of your dogmas of competition and ultra-barterism. the legitimacy of taxation is first and foremost the legitimacy and acceptance by citizens of its use.
in writing. here is a report whose message and relevance can be welcomed. finally, the european parliament has taken a stand for a rebalanced globalisation to the benefit of the european union. it seems unthinkable to open our markets to firms from third countries which drive down prices and quality while our own firms remain at the doorstep of those countries which encourage their firms to engage in such practices. yet that is what the european union is doing and it has become intolerable! while public procurement in europe is 85% open, european companies have access to only one third of public procurement in the united states (32%) and only 28% in japan! let us not be the blessings of globalisation! i am glad that the eu is finally recognising this asymmetry and is restoring balance by advocating reciprocity in access to public procurement. a foreign company that submits an abnormally low bid may now be excluded if the reasons are not valid. it will also be possible to exclude tenders from countries whose public procurement remains closed to european companies. the eu will now be able to approach trade negotiations with ambition and realism.
in writing. i supported this report on reciprocity in access to public procurement. published in march 2012, this proposal for a regulation aims to restore fair competition between european companies and those from third countries in access to public contracts, by introducing a principle of reciprocal opening of public contracts and providing for the possibility of excluding tenders from foreign companies from countries that do not respect the principle of reciprocity. the text adopted provides for a number of conditions clarifying the application of this principle and takes account of the special case of the least developed countries. this text shows the european union's belated awareness of the need to act in this area: while nearly 85% of eu public procurement is open, some of our trading partners are resolutely closing access to their public procurement to european companies (in particular the united states, china and brazil). it was time for the eu to finally open its eyes and react.
in writing. we have adopted a key element of our commercial strategy, namely a reciprocity instrument in access to public procurement. this project was jointly promoted by commissioner michel barnier and his colleague karel de gucht and was able to benefit from the full support and commitment of all the meps of the french epp delegation. reciprocity must become the watchword of our trade policy. this is what nicolas sarkozy demanded when he was five years old, and it is a very important first step which has now been taken in this direction, despite the reluctance and reservations of those who see it as disguised protectionism. for my part, i welcome the fact that we are giving ourselves the means to be on equal footing in globalisation and to ensure reciprocal access for our european companies to public contracts in third countries.
in writing. the aim is to restrict access to eu public procurement by third countries that do not offer reciprocal access to their markets. but it goes to show that openness must be the rule. i don't think that's what you mean. in the context of the wto negotiations on the revision of the agreement on government procurement (gpa) and bilateral negotiations with third countries, the eu has advocated the opening up of public procurement at international level. public procurement is an important tool for development and national and popular sovereignty. developing countries in particular must be able to retain their freedom to reserve these markets for local operators, or to exclude certain key sectors from international competition. i am voting against this report.
in writing. the principle of reciprocity is a key principle for the proper conduct of economic relations between the european union and its international partners. however, the union's public procurement sector, which is ambitious in opening up to the rest of the world, is increasingly faced with restrictive practices by its major trading partners. i voted for the adoption of this report in the interests of improving trade relations between the union and these countries. we must protect our companies from unfair competition from the rest of the world. we do not see this as a measure of exacerbated protectionism but rather as a means of changing the union's relations with countries which have not, to date, shown any desire to enter into negotiations for an economic partnership. we need such an instrument so that our public market can develop in a global atmosphere conducive to its flourishing. i will always fight for a fairer trading relationship so that our economy can best serve our fellow citizens.
in writing. there are serious imbalances in access to public procurement between the eu and its trading partners: while 85% of eu public procurement contracts are already potentially open to international tenderers, this is the case for only 32% of public procurement contracts in the us and 28% in japan. the so-called 'reciprocity instrument' proposed by the commission is intended to remedy this situation - not to close our markets as some critics have claimed. this draft instrument would prevent non-european companies from being awarded public contracts in the eu if their country of origin does not itself offer this possibility to our companies. the proposed tool could only be used for contracts of at least €5 million, with the approval of the european commission, and the least developed countries would be excluded. the compromise reached seems satisfactory to me and i support it. i now call on the council to move constructively forward in the negotiations with parliament so that such a tool can be created as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft regulation which allows european public procurement contracts to be closed to companies from countries which do not respect strict reciprocity. according to the commission, 85% of eu public contracts are already potentially open to international bidders, compared with only 32% of public contracts in the us and 28% in japan. without this text, the large multinationals in the newly industrialized countries would continue to benefit from the opening up of european markets without our companies being able to work in those countries. we had to create a legal framework which would enable the european union to respond to this unfair competition. this text is the logical continuation of our commitments to a more equitable globalisation in which europe defends its interests.
in writing. i voted against this legislative report on the access of products and services from third countries to the internal market of the union. the purpose of this headline is to restrict access to eu public contracts by third countries when they do not offer reciprocal access to their public contracts. in most cases, this is to strengthen the eu's position in opening up public procurement to so-called european companies and to clarify the rules governing access of third country companies and their products and services to eu public procurement. i am firmly opposed to this kind of blackmail by the eu on developing countries as if they were playing on equal terms. public procurement is an important tool for development in the countries of the south and these countries must be able to retain their freedom to reserve these contracts to local operators or to exclude certain key sectors from international competition. this report risks creating burdensome administrative procedures and even limiting the freedoms of local and regional authorities with the aim of facilitating the conquest of markets by predatory companies and, as a consequence, all-round social dumping.
in writing. i spoke today in favour of reciprocity in access to public procurement. i believe that this vote is a step towards the 'fair trade' which we european socialists advocate and oppose to general free trade and protectionism. reciprocity will now prevent non-european companies from bidding on european public contracts when their home country does not give european union companies full guarantees of reciprocal and fair access to its public contracts or does not respect international labour law. the correct application of the principle of reciprocity is also a strategic issue: european public contracts are open at 85%, while those of the united states are only open at 32%, those of japan at 28% and those of canada at 16%. our companies must be able to compete on equal terms with their competitors in third countries: this is a point we are negotiating very hard in the free trade agreements with these three countries! it is therefore an important weapon in the battle for employment which we are waging on all fronts.
in writing. the purpose of this legislation is to clarify the rules applicable to labelling in the event of the presence of gmos in honey. following a ruling by the court of justice of the european union, any package of honey containing traces of gmos had to be labelled as such, which implies unbearable costs for beekeepers because it requires tests on each jar of honey to detect the possible presence of gmos. indeed, a beekeeper can never be sure that his bees have not gone to gather in a gmo field. in view of this situation, the european commission recalled that pollen is not an ingredient but a natural constituent of honey and that the rules on labelling the presence of gmo ingredients in food should not be applied. the commission has therefore proposed a beneficial amendment to the legislation to ensure this clarification. i voted in favour of this report recalling the status of natural constituents of pollen in honey.
in writing. i voted for the amendments to the plenary to reaffirm the natural character of honey. a majority of the european parliament considered that pollen is a natural component of honey, not an ingredient. we want quality honey and proximity in the union. honey must remain a natural product. the mortality of bees, the quantity of pesticides or the quality of products, especially imported ones, require stringent criteria from the european union. the fight against genetically modified organisms (gmos) is also a priority. because of the concerns about the very nature of gmos, the best way to prevent their spread is to ban the production of such crops throughout the european continent.
in writing. by voting for this text, parliament is affirming that pollen is indeed a constituent of honey and not an ingredient that can be separated from it. to say otherwise would have had a detrimental impact on the beekeeping sector. in particular, it was allegedly subject to excessive labelling and testing requirements which would result in an increase in the price of honey, which would be detrimental to the consumer. a negative vote would also have ended the natural product status of honey and opened the door to the addition of artificial products.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aligns the commission's implementing powers with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on clarification of the status of honey. in addition, it appears from this proposal that the commission would thus have the power to adopt delegated acts to lay down methods for verifying the compliance of honey with the provisions of directive 2001/110/ec.
in writing. i voted against the girling report amending council directive 2001/110 on honey because all the amendments relating to the classification of pollen as an ingredient from gm crops were rejected by a majority in the plenary vote. yes, pollen can be considered a natural component of honey and does not need to be indicated on the label. however, in the interests of transparency and consumer information, i think it is desirable to consider pollen as an ingredient when it comes from gm crops or when the honey has been imported from a gmo producing country. this approach, which respects eu legislation on gmo labelling, aims to address the concerns expressed by both consumers and beekeepers who are concerned about producing quality honey from eco-responsible agriculture. as this debate is not yet over, i hope that in the next stages of the negotiations we will be able to reach a consensus on the appropriate and applicable solutions to this problem.
in writing. i am pleased that parliament has confirmed the commission's position on the nature of pollen in honey, despite the decision of the court of justice of the eu. it is difficult for me to consider pollen as an external ingredient, since it is essential to the composition of honey. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. while i understand that any trace of gmos above 0.9% found in an ingredient must be reported and labelled, this rule cannot apply to natural food constituents. how do you expect beekeepers to check jar by jar if their honey contains traces of gmos because a bee has been poaching in the wrong place? if legislation on gmos is to be made, it certainly does not have to be by penalising beekeepers who are only collateral victims of agricultural practices whose effects are not known. the number of beekeepers has fallen dramatically in recent years and we are buying more and more honey from countries whose production methods are far from as reliable as in europe. let's not burden them any more.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague julie girling, who considers pollen to be a natural constituent of honey, not an ingredient. this will save honey producers from having to pay very high additional costs to check that each jar of honey does not contain pollen from gm plants. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. we have taken decisions on two dossiers related to the question of gmos. i first supported the report clarifying the legal status of pollen, particularly in relation to labelling in the event of traces of gmos in honey. i felt that the obligation to indicate the presence of traces of gmos, if such presence were to be found, would entail too high a cost for our beekeepers. i think that the consumer should be informed of the presence of traces of gmos in food products, but i think that pollen is a component of honey and not an ingredient. penalising our companies and beekeepers for traces of gmos that are caused by the fact that bees sometimes forage for gmos in fields several kilometres from their hives would have been an inadequate and costly administrative burden. on another report, however, i opposed the planting of the genetically modified maize pioneer tc 1507, given the lack of scientific evaluation of the possible environmental risks of this gmo which persist.
in writing. i call for a ban on the open-field cultivation of gmos. without going back to that objective, the report proposes to define pollen as an ingredient in honey, so that labelling of genetically modified pollen would be compulsory. this is a minimum of legitimate consumer protection. but the amendments have stripped the text of its substance, namely consumer protection in relation to gmos, so i voted against.
in writing. i voted against the idea of considering pollen as a mere ingredient of honey and not as a natural constituent of the product. this technical detail hides a much more political issue: defining pollen as an ingredient could open the way to dubious honey recipes (with mixtures or pollen substitutions). in addition, these changes involved a complete overhaul of the labelling system for jars and gmo tests on honey. the economic consequences would have been disastrous for most beekeepers. the use of this 'honey directive' by environmentalists in the name of the principle of excessive precaution put the whole beekeeping industry at risk.
in writing. bees have no borders, so pollen can come from any crop that is part of their habitat. the question is whether when honey contains pollen from gm crops, it should be reported. the commission and the rapporteur replied that pollen would be a natural constituent. i said, as my colleagues have said, that it is an ingredient. the whole nuance is in the labelling obligation. if the commission's proposal is accepted, the labelling obligation would only take effect from a threshold of 0.9%. however, the concentration is always less than 0.5%, so the proportion of gmos will never reach this legal threshold and will therefore never be reported. on the other hand, if pollen is considered to be an ingredient, it must be declared, whether the gmo is all or part of it, even if it is only a small part. i think that the freedom of information of consumers must be guaranteed. i regret that the majority of members do not see it that way, and that leaves the door open to abuse, favouring imported honey whose composition is not always known, as opposed to beekeepers who try to operate in a transparent way.
in writing. in 2001, the court of justice of the european union ruled that pollen is an ingredient and required the labelling of honey containing gm pollen. in 2012, the commission presented a revision of the so-called community honey legislation, and proposed that pollen be considered as a natural constituent of honey and not as an ingredient, thus circumventing the cjeu judgment. a very large majority in the european parliament (right-wing, pro-sovereignty, social democrats and liberals) considered that pollen is a natural constituent. i regret that it has thus rejected the mandatory labelling of honey containing gm pollen, referring this provision to the legislation on the labelling of gmos. this vote deprives beekeepers of protection against gmos, believing that beekeeping is no longer a problem for gm producers. the beekeepers and consumers are the winners of this revision. the activity of beekeepers is threatened because there is a suspicion of gmo contamination, since the consumer cannot be informed of the presence of gmos. the vote on l. 1507 maize also shows the inconsistency of meps on gmos.
in writing. determining whether flower pollen should be designated as an ingredient or a natural constituent of honey has many regulatory implications. if pollen is considered to be a natural constituent, no labelling is necessary; if, on the other hand, it is considered to be an ingredient, then beekeepers may, under certain conditions, be required to label their honey to inform the consumer about the presence of gmos in their product. my position, like that of the french socialists, has always been very clear: pollen is a natural constituent of honey but in the exceptional case where a honey contains pollen from gm crops, this pollen can be considered an ingredient under european legislation on the labelling of gmos. i regret the outcome of the vote in favour of the commission's proposal in the european parliament today. this is like hiding the presence of gmos from consumers! our approach would have supported all producers who are trying to bring to the market quality, non-gmo honey that meets consumer demand. but the fight is not over!
in writing. the hercule iii programme is designed to promote anti-fraud activities, in particular the fight against cigarette smuggling. increased taxes on these products, particularly in france, can distort competition within the eu and encourage smuggling of cigarettes from both member and non-member countries.
in writing. this text strengthens the protection of the financial interests of the european union by establishing the hercule iii programme for the period 2014-2020. it is important that the european union progresses towards an effective prevention of fraud, corruption and other illegal activities. it is therefore particularly interesting to offer specialised joint training for staff in national and regional administrations. such a proposal contributes to ensuring an equivalent level of protection throughout the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to continue the action taken by the european union in the field of the protection of the union's financial interests. one of the benefits of this measure is that it allows savings to be made through the collective acquisition of specialised equipment and databases for stakeholders. in addition, the provision of assistance to facilitate investigations and the setting up of joint investigative teams and crossborder operations are elements which i hope will make it possible to actively combat financial fraud.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague monica luisa macovei on the hercule iii programme and protection of the financial interests of the european union, aimed at combating smuggling and fraudulent practices, particularly in the context of the cigarette trade. the report proposes to strengthen the cooperation mechanisms and investigative capacity of olaf (european anti-fraud office). the text was adopted by a very large majority with 644 votes in favour, 14 against and 12 abstentions. i'm very pleased with this adoption.
in writing. this report focuses on the hercule iii programme which promotes the protection of the eu's financial interests for the period 2014-2020. initially launched in 2004, the hercule programme focuses on three main areas: strengthening cooperation between anti-fraud actors, strengthening information exchange networks and providing operational and technical support to law enforcement agencies. it also aims to increase the number of measures to combat counterfeiting and smuggling of cigarettes. the programme has consistently proved its effectiveness and i believe that it is essential to continue it, particularly at a time when budgetary questions are central to the problems facing the member states. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i supported this text which strengthens the coherence of european legislation with the new institutional framework. it seems to me appropriate to seek to streamline the production of community statistics on trade in goods between member states, in particular by clarifying the definition of statistical value.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague hans-peter martin on statistics relating to the trade in goods between member states. the text delegates to the european commission implementing powers for the adoption of certain measures, the communication of information by the customs administration, the exchange of confidential data between member states and the definition of the statistical value. the text will now enter the negotiation phase with the council and the european commission with a view to a final agreement. so i welcome this result.
in writing. the fight against wildlife crime requires coordinated global action by the highest political and enforcement bodies at national and international level, and the effective use of tools to strengthen law enforcement and criminal justice systems. this type of traffic is a danger to the environment and local communities. i therefore supported this text which also calls for all the member states of the european union to strengthen coordination in this area in order to put an end to it.
in writing. the european parliament, through this resolution, calls for the strengthening of the european union's instruments to combat crime linked to poaching and wildlife trafficking. in particular, in order to combat trade in illegal wildlife products such as ivory or live animals, it is appropriate to raise awareness among member states of the need to introduce appropriate criminal sanctions.
in writing. i supported the resolution calling for the fight against wildlife crime, which is often linked to transnational criminal organisations, drug traffickers and human traffickers. the resolution calls for stricter action by the authorities and greater cooperation with international organisations such as interpol. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. europe is an important market for poachers who take advantage of the non-harmonisation of european regulations on the protection of biodiversity to bring goods into the eu. wildlife crime includes acts of poaching, trafficking or possession of protected flora and fauna. these practices often lead to the extinction of species, damage biodiversity and cause serious damage to ecosystems. the resolution adopted therefore sets out guidelines to combat this form of crime. it was essential that the european union commit itself to combating wildlife crime and i therefore supported the resolution voted by the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on combating poaching and wildlife crime. as vice-president of the animal welfare intergroup in the european parliament, i am very much involved in issues of respect for biodiversity. poaching is now an activity of mafia-type criminal groups that take advantage of weak controls and law enforcement, especially in african countries, to expand their activities. interpol and the international fund for animal welfare have shown that the ivory trade is booming and that the european union is the world's leading destination market! in this text i have therefore called for the european union to introduce moratoriums on all imports and exports of elephant tusks and raw or processed ivory products until wild elephant populations are no longer threatened by poaching. i have also asked for more precise controls to be applied to imports of hunting trophies for a number of species, again with the aim of raising awareness among the european public of these issues.
in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which highlights the issue of wildlife crime. the aim is to combat illegal wildlife trade, poaching and illegal harvesting, and trade in wildlife products. in 2013, over 41 tons of ivory from elephant poaching in africa and asia were seized - the highest amount in 25 years! the same is true of rhinoceroses, especially in south africa. not only is this trade unacceptable from the point of view of respect for animals, which are usually protected species, and the balance of ecosystems, but several international organisations, such as the united nations and interpol, have shown the link between the exploitation of wildlife and international organised crime. as the european union is the world's leading destination market for trafficking in human beings, it is time for the eu to put in place a coordinated legal framework to strengthen the fight against this real scourge. the setting up of a special committee within europol to deal effectively with this issue may be a first step in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the freedom of movement of europeans is a fundamental right to which a very large majority of our citizens are very attached. this principle is at the heart of the realisation of european citizenship. in this debate, we must first and foremost focus on the facts rather than on myths conveyed by some conservative or populist elected officials through baseless accusations. it is a dubious amalgamation that is maintained. so, to return to the facts, just 2.8% of european citizens live in a country other than their own. most of them are taxpayers. in particular, 79% live in a household where at least one member is employed. health expenditure for non-active mobile european citizens accounts for 0.2% of total health expenditure. finally, as was just mentioned on the massive or invasive side of mobility, 24 romanians seem to have arrived in the uk since the beginning of the year and, for the netherlands, 21 romanians and 15 bulgarians, on whom companies have rushed. rules, obligations - if we want to put it another way - already exist at european level to regulate the conditions of residence and the rights to social benefits of european citizens who decide to go to work in a country other than their own. so first they have to be implemented. we must stop pointing the finger, without any further proof, at the immigration of european citizens as the sole cause of the difficulties in public finances. it is therefore unacceptable that these european citizens should be regarded as useful scapegoats to conceal the responsibility of certain policies. the debate is more about internal politics, purely electoral and nationalistic. this is the kind of discourse that is being used by elected officials who are happily, and sometimes intentionally, mixing up the issues of the lifting of the transitional measures and the accession of romania and bulgaria to schengen. they are the same people who accuse european citizens of tourism and welfare benefits but for whom the maintenance of opaque rules on the posting of workers is absolutely no problem, and who are also fiercely opposed to any direct subcontractor being held responsible for the non-payment of wages to a posted worker. these mobile european workers make an important contribution to our economies and we must emphasize this. the solutions are elsewhere: in the recovery of our economies, in the defence of workers' rights and the fight against poverty. we reject the idea that there should be first and second class citizens, and this is clearly not the direction we want for europe in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the freedom of movement in the european union is now being limited. mass immigration from within and outside europe, the roma problem and the directive on the posting of workers, which leads to unbridled competition and social dumping between european workers, have rightly aroused anger and euroscepticism. the debate on intra-european immigration is intensifying in france, britain and germany with the opening of the labour market to romanians and bulgarians since 1 january. the european council's response? increased controls by labour inspectorates to prevent fraud and abuse, but in no case the abolition of the directive on the posting of workers. as regards the roma, member states must commit themselves to national integration strategies through access to employment, education, housing and health care, while the economic crisis and austerity measures have left many of their own nationals unemployed and in poverty. it is high time that the sovereignty of states should be restored, the principle of free movement called into question and frontiers reestablished. it is not those who have defended, against all logic and wisdom, the dogma of free movement who can now provide solutions to the problems they have created.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, what are we discussing today? the practice of some member states of selling their nationality and residence permits, all at the cost of huge sums of tens or even hundreds or thousands of euros. the justification put forward by the member states, namely to encourage investment, to fill the deficit, is unbearable, especially when it comes from states which are accustomed to giving us moral lessons. it is clear who will seize these opportunities: those who cannot invest otherwise. it is only a way of circumventing a number of rules, and it can only encourage money laundering. at a time when statements are being made, when hundreds of people have died in the mediterranean and crocodile tears are flowing, and when fortress europe is closing its doors to the migrants who are trying to reach our shores with their money, these practices can only disgust those who are committed to the values of freedom, equality and solidarity. certainly, merchandising has no limits for some and money has no smell. it is not citizenship that is at issue but the universal values on which the european union is supposed to be built, values which it unfortunately flouts more and more every day.
madam president, the resolution before us does not address the reasons which have led to the dramatic situation in south sudan. no, we are not in an ethnic conflict but, once again, in the exploitation for political purposes, not to say political, of the different groups living in this country. the partition of sudan, which has been so badly managed, is largely at the origin of these tensions. president mayardit has turned his jacket around. today, he's making an alliance with the sinister al-bashir and delivering his oil to him. he betrayed his former allies, the opponents of the dictator of the north, and this at a time when they, gathered in large numbers, have never threatened the regime so much. all those who denounced this treason, military or political leaders, including former vice-president riek machar, are in prison. the violence is unprecedented, there are already thousands of dead and refugees. instead of helping dictators or corrupt regimes, we must help those who want to work for peace in order to avoid a rwandan-style scenario. yes, everything has to be resolved politically once again, and yes, the european union must put its full weight into it.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, we welcome this debate this morning, even if it leads us to discuss a situation which is not acceptable because the situation of the homeless in europe today is totally contrary to the objectives you have proposed that we set with the europe 2020 strategy. today we need to go further. we need that homelessness strategy. of course, there is the social investment package, but it is not specific enough. that is why your parliament has asked you to provide us with indicators in the regulation on the european social fund. through the legislation on the european social fund, the need for member states to provide indicators to give a global picture of homelessness will help to identify this reality better and thus to combat it, possibly through social investment, but also, perhaps above all, with a real strategy against homelessness. in this context, we are concerned about the rumours circulating that the question of the platform for the fight against poverty and social exclusion could be called into question by the outgoing commission in the context of a review of the europe 2020 strategy. this is unacceptable in substance and form. i would like to draw attention to two points. first, the development of the criminalization of homelessness. this is a specific phenomenon which must be looked at closely. the development of practices in town planning which are designed to drive the homeless away and thus impose a double penalty on them is also completely contrary to what a renewed european social model should be.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament is once again going to adopt a resolution in favour of a homelessness strategy. for three years now, parliament has been mobilized through the adoption of a written question, a resolution, consensus conferences with housing ministers, who are ready. we have been constantly reviving the commission since then. at no time did the commission bother to justify its silence. what are you waiting for? your silence is guilty. the situation is getting worse every day. i should remind you that homeless people are here all year round, not just in the winter. the commission must come out of its ivory tower. i'll bring up another topic: the waves of eviction are exploding. this is the case in spain, where the mortgage law continues to violate european law to the detriment of households who can no longer renegotiate their credit, resulting in more than 500 000 illegal evictions. this is also the case in greece, where the moratorium on property seizures is being lifted under pressure from the troika and thus from the commission. all to bail out the banks. the human first! it is in the name of this principle that i would like to remind my colleagues that we will have to vote in favour of the amendment denouncing the criminalisation of the homeless, which is particularly widespread in hungary. the homeless are being chased by the police and are subject to heavy fines. being poor is not a crime. i would remind my colleagues in the epp who would rather see this resolution fall than turn a blind eye to this tragedy which denies all human dignity. that is blackmail which is infamous in this parliament. if the barroso commission is not able to put a european strategy for the homeless before the elections, then i say it clearly, i invite the european citizens to take note of this at the ballot box to put solidarity back at the heart of public policies.
madam president, commissioner, i wanted to tell you how much support you will find in this house, even if the house is not particularly supplied, for the question on which i am inclined to say: 'you have taken a risk' because we are living in an interpretation of the european union at the moment which, very often, under the guise of subsidiarity, leads the authorities to not take their responsibilities. the issue of homelessness is part of the europe 2020 strategy. it is clear that we cannot have an inclusive policy if we leave people on the street in the strict sense of the word and, as a colleague has said, there are those who are on the street, there are all those who find solutions for fortune while sometimes being workers, there are children who go to school living in caravans. i think that for the world's leading trading power, it is not very dignified. as chairman of the intergroup on the fight against poverty in this parliament, i really wanted to encourage you. do not be discouraged by all those who talk about subsidiarity. this is a fundamental rights issue, and fundamental rights are one of the issues that the european union has to deal with. it's written in our charter and if we don't address it, we're gonna have trouble looking at ourselves in the mirror one day.
madam president, we ask that the spanish government abandon its abortion bill. this is a text which will challenge the position of the weakest women, which will lead them into hiding, which will send them back to the most dangerous situations and which will favour the wealthiest women who will be able to make social tourism. this bill refers to the darkest hours in the history of women, in the history of europe, because when the situation of women is attacked, the history of europe is also attacked, and these are the very foundations of democracy. if mr rajoy is not convinced by the european parliament, he should look at the who studies, which clearly state that where there is a ban, abortion is not restricted. secondly, the epp group with which we want to work is not mr rajoy's group. it is perhaps that of mrs simone veil who, forty years ago, told us: 'we cannot prevent illegal abortions'. mr rajoy should remember that and take inspiration from it. the spain we love, the spain with which we like to cooperate as europeans, is that of felipe gonzález, who has brought us, with the maastricht treaty, a whole chapter on european citizenship. let us find that spirit, the european spirit.
madam president, in the european union, only three countries have very restrictive abortion laws. in malta, abortion is totally illegal. in ireland, the legislation has changed very little. in poland, a further attempt at regression has just failed. the spanish government's proposal would set women back thirty years. restricting abortion rights has never reduced the number of abortions. this approach puts the poorest women back into the misery of clandestine abortions, with disregard for their right to health and even their right to life. clandestine abortion is violence against all women. women should have the freedom to choose what they want to do with their bodies. no one is forced to have an abortion. no one should be able to impose his choices, including religious choices, on all the women of a country. the lobbying of ultra-reactionary groups who practice lying as a method of conviction is unworthy of our democracies. we know where the ideology is, we know where the respect for women's rights is. to reduce women's rights is to reduce society as a whole.
in writing. there are still many problems of inequality and discrimination in access to health care and in the area of reproductive and sexual rights. the spanish government's willingness to reverse the abortion law is a tragic illustration of this. it is a camouflage against centuries of struggle by women for their rights, in spain and all over europe. it is also the resurgence of health problems for women who have no choice but to resort to clandestine contraception. it is also a violation of equality between citizens, given the cost of abortion abroad. it is a challenge to women's freedom to choose what to do with their bodies. while some may be complacent about the treaties, no one can deny that the european union is first and foremost a community of values, committed to respect for human rights, freedom and equality for its citizens. the role of the european union must be to sound the alarm whenever its members deviate from its values. no one can claim to defend cultural differences where these values are flouted.
in writing. spain, cited as an example for its framework law against violence against women, has played a pioneering role in women's rights in europe. equal access to rights and the principle of non-discrimination in matters of sex are also two fundamental principles of respect for human dignity, as recalled in the charter of fundamental rights to which all member states are subject. the reversal of the presentation of this spanish law dramatically restricting access to the ivg illustrates the fragility of these achievements in the face of a growing reactionary wave: the alliance of conservatives and the extreme right has here yielded to religious and traditionalist lobbies. this text calls into question the situation of the most vulnerable women and encourages the right to abortion in the underground: it is not with the authors of such a text that we want to advance social rights in europe. mr rajoy wanted to satisfy the church hierarchy and seduce the most conservative wing of his electorate: the right of women to decide on their motherhood cannot, however, and in no case, enter into the framework of a political or ethical debate that does not consider as an unavoidable starting point the free decision of women.
author. - madam president, the question of environmental damage, which is of a very different nature from the whole subject we have just discussed, is becoming increasingly important. first, because of the irreversibility of the situation, we have entered the sixth extinction of species, and also because of the financial cost of this damage. i would remind you that the services provided by nature amount to 23 billion a year, or half of the world's gdp. environmental liability directive 2004/35 recognises environmental damage but excludes a number of categories, including environmental damage resulting from disasters related to oil spills at sea. in return, erika iii does not decide the issue. the creation of a complementary fund in 2003, which is in addition to the fipol, has resulted in the abandonment of a project to integrate ecological damage into the categories of damage compensated by this fund. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. yet in the united states, environmental damage is recognized by case law, see the exxon valdez judgment. the european court of human rights recognises a right to a healthy and protected environment, see tătar v. romania. the court of justice of the european union has upheld the polluter pays principle as a general interest principle in the mesquer judgment in the erika case. finally, in this last case in which i had the honour of defending the french communes, the french court of cassation has recognised the existence of pure ecological damage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the environment.
author. - madam president, 100 000 tonnes is the weight of heavy fuel oil that the erika and the prestige alone have dumped on our coasts. the environmental damage caused by the sinking of the erika was estimated at 360 million euros, and the overall damage of the prestige exceeded 4 billion. these ecological and economic disasters, which have been a real trauma for our coastlines, have infiltrated every aspect of life on our coasts: 300,000 birds died from the oil spill on the erika. oyster farmers have been hit hard; tourism has fallen steadily, as a result of the deteriorating image of a polluted coastline; fish stocks have decreased by 43% in some fishing areas. other consequences will never be recorded, such as the impact on biodiversity. why are we talking about erika and prestige now? last november, the spanish courts ruled that there was no liability and therefore no reparation, despite the historic scale of the flood. although the decision of the supreme court is still to be awaited, the absence of sanctions and the failure to make reparation for the damage is a bad signal for shipping, contrary to all efforts to prevent accidents at sea. in france, however, the court of cassation made two significant advances in the fight against pollution in the erika case. first, the french courts established a chain of responsibility extending not only beyond the ship's captain but also beyond the shipowner, allowing the charterer to be convicted. secondly, the judges established an ecological damage and quantified it, thus allowing compensation to be paid to the victims. the legal chasm between the court decisions in the two cases is clear, and is symptomatic of the european legal vacuum. while europe rightly boasts of an integrated maritime policy and the ambition of protecting the marine environment, we cannot allow the pollution of europe's coasts to go unpunished. (the president interrupted the speaker to ask her to slow down)
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to start by saying that i was for ten years vice-president of the amoco union, which was set up following the sinking of the tanker amoco cadiz off the coast of brittany. marine pollution by oil is one of the scourges that presents enormous difficulties in prevention and remediation. that is one of the shortcomings of international law. the complex concept of liability in the event of disasters caused by shipwrecks affecting the seas and territories of the union needs to be defined more broadly. in france, the erika legal proceedings established the existence of pure ecological damage, which complements the economic, material or moral damage. at european and international level, the existing provisions are not sufficient to recognize purely ecological damage caused by natural disasters. the recognition of these rights is essential for the preservation of our territories and our seas, and in particular for the future of maritime activities in the context of the development of blue growth, which we all support. the convention on civil liability must also recognize that environmental damage is liable to compensation. the current regulatory framework only covers the cost of rehabilitation. in addition, the international compensation fund for oil pollution damage, fipol, established in 2003, should facilitate compensation for all types of damage. the procedures for using these funds should be simplified. for example, it would be useful for each member state to be able to work with fipol to establish lists of experts capable of speeding up compensation procedures. at european level, the scope of the environmental liability directive needs to be extended to take account of ecological damage to european marine waters. it could be invoked in cases where the convention on civil liability does not apply. finally, i think it is essential to set up a fund to supplement the fipol fund, which would be designed to repair the environmental damage. the cope fund, which was already proposed by the commission, was abandoned in 2003. it would have avoided the current legal vacuum.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today too often those who pollute and are responsible for ecological disasters are not the ones who pay. the polluter pays principle, which is at the heart of the european treaties, is not easily applied, as the judicial handling of these disasters shows. two examples have been widely cited. in france, for example, the erika case involved €143 million of public funds after the erika oil spill, whereas total was only fined €375,000. bp, which operates oil rigs in europe, has committed only one-twentieth of its market value to compensation for the unfortunately historic deepwater oil spill in the gulf of mexico. how can we compensate and make amends when we cannot prevent these natural disasters and the resulting ecological damage? europe has taken the lead by calling on member states to strengthen their criminal legislation and access to justice. but we must and can go further to force environmental offenders to face up to their responsibilities and make amends. at european level, the deadlock in the council over the directive on access to justice in environmental matters must now end and we must embark on a review of european regulation to make it more stringent and harmonised. in france, the erika case has set in motion the development of the law on the concept of pure ecological damage, but it is at european level that we can exert our full weight and ensure common and effective mechanisms, and that we must go further so that everyone assumes his criminal and civil responsibilities and so that cases such as the erika or the prestige really belong to the past.
in writing. the recent crisis has hit european economies hard and affected the industrial sector, with 3.8 million jobs lost. the industrial base is the natural foundation for which a new strategy for growth is essential. the manufacturing industry in particular needs major reform if it is to compete in the world market. i voted in favour of this text, which proposes a new approach to industrial policy by strengthening the competitiveness of the european union. the aim is to generate growth, jobs and to foster the transition to a low-carbon economy.
the industrial recovery in europe must be the top priority of the european agenda. a europe without industry is a europe of unemployment with bleak economic and social prospects. from telecommunications to the automobile and renewable energy, the situation calls for a move to the offensive. it starts with a radical change in our current practices. unfair tax competition is no longer tolerable in the european union. in this context, it is essential to make concrete progress on the coordination of business taxation. the introduction of harmonised tax bases is a welcome first step. i hope that this report will be followed up because it illustrates the general awareness of the european parliament in this area.
in writing. i supported this text to reindustrialise europe to promote the competitiveness and sustainability of our market. it is necessary to stress the importance of a strong industrial policy in europe, a sector which accounts for a quarter of european employment. business investment in research, innovation and sustainable technologies should be encouraged. this is a prerequisite for the revival of growth and competitiveness in europe.
in writing. while european industrial production, which accounted for 36% of world industrial production 20 years ago, now represents only 24%, member states must show much more willingness. the european union must have a genuine industrial policy which is innovative and ambitious. the economic crisis, the social crisis, the unemployment problem, the question of relocation are challenges which cannot be solved by national strategies alone. we must respond to it with a common strategy and an offensive. the union must support the sectors which are already at the forefront in europe and invest in the sectors of innovation. in the same way, we must allow the emergence of internationally competitive european 'champions' and to this end we must rethink our community policies on competition, industry and trade, so as to put them at the service of a genuine reindustrialisation strategy for the future creation of jobs and growth in europe. the european heads of state or government recently decided to cancel the february summit on industrial competitiveness in europe and to refer the matter to the march council. i regret this, because it sends the wrong signal to european businesses and citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because, at a time when the european union is recovering from the adverse effects of the economic crisis, the european industrial sector must be considered. the efforts made to develop entrepreneurship to boost the internal market or to improve access to international markets are therefore in line with the commission's wishes, which i can only encourage.
in writing. the report starts with a positive feeling and an undeniable conclusion: europe must be reindustrialised. europe, which has gone from secondary to tertiary education in a few years, has also sacrificed its agriculture in the name of cap reforms. we have to go further and be consistent. the european union is largely responsible for the disaster of deindustrialisation by opening its borders to the free-for-all of unbridled globalisation, abandoning community or national preferences and refusing any protection that balances trade. reindustrialisation is a priority but the values the commission is promoting are in complete opposition to this objective. protecting our industries and jobs through realistic national policies and european cooperation is an urgent matter.
in writing. with industrial production in the euro area up by 1.8% in november, member states should take advantage of this favourable climate to consolidate europe's industrial policy, which is continuing to fall behind the united states, china and the emerging powers. the elected representatives of the european parliament, faced directly in their constituencies with the ravages of the industrial crisis which has caused many factory closures, have therefore decided to support a new approach to industrial policy in europe. this policy, which translates into the reconquest of territories, will only be effective and sustainable if it offers a collective vision and avoids uncooperative behaviour and unfair competition strategies within the euro area. the crisis has destroyed 3.8 million jobs in the industrial sector. it is already too much and it will only get worse if the member states do not realise the value of a collective approach at home and an offensive approach abroad.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague reinhard bütikofer calling for reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability. this report supports the design of an industrial policy that encourages investment in r & d, while promoting energy price developments and access to finance. the text was adopted by 385 votes to 100, with 60 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. on wednesday i voted in favour of an own-initiative report on the essential reindustrialisation of europe. the aim was to make a number of strong recommendations to revive industrial production in europe. among the recommendations we make are to simplify the legal framework to revitalise investment, to impose, as i said earlier, reciprocity in trade relations between the european union and its partners, not to underestimate but to encourage the potential of successful european industries, such as the luxury and high-end sector, and finally to build an effective anti-dumping strategy.
in writing. this report could have been a step towards the necessary reindustrialisation of europe. but trapped in a neoliberal trap, the only options he offers are reducing labour costs and restructuring. and he gives us the usual rhetoric that the grail of 'competitiveness' would necessarily pass through privatisation and other fairy tales. i vote against it.
in writing. the reindustrialisation of europe is a major challenge in the current economic and social context. unfortunately, the measures proposed in this report are, once again, based on a neoliberal logic. the solutions proposed are cost reduction, increased competitiveness and privatisation, measures which have been used consistently in recent years and have proved ineffective. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. now more than ever, the european union needs a single strategy to meet the challenges of the crisis. it is imperative that we join forces to re-industrialise our economy so that it can be a source of growth and job creation. european companies need clear and stable regulation to improve their competitiveness. they must have access to the countries to which we open our borders. technological development is our competitive advantage over the rest of the world. it is therefore important to enable companies to develop in an international environment conducive to innovation. i am therefore pleased that this report has been adopted. this type of initiative will allow the european economy to recover and make the best use of all its resources. i regret, however, that the report does not go further to protect our companies, which are already subject to heavy environmental regulations, in particular by introducing a carbon tax at europe's borders for companies from third countries to combat unfair competition. it is, however, a considerable step towards a modern and economically developed europe. for a long time our governments have wrongly favoured a service-based economy, and now it is time for reindustrialisation.
in writing. on 15 january, the european parliament voted on a report on the reindustrialisation of the european union. it would have been hoped that this report would have tackled the root of the problem, and denounced an industrial policy which was exclusively focused on increasing profits for shareholders. this report could have called for strong public investment in research and development to promote european cooperation in the employment and territorial services. that would have been good news for all the employees. but this is only the latest in a long line of boastful statements that have gone unheeded. it is an 'initiative report', so it is merely a declaration by the european parliament with no binding force. the report refuses to acknowledge the disastrous consequences of unbridled competition and social dumping organized by the european rules themselves, in order to remain within a dogmatic view of competitiveness and the single market. at best, this is a missed opportunity to defend the strong industrial policy we need to safeguard both employment and production, and at worst it is an electoral decoy designed to give the illusion of a european industrial strategy. i voted against this report.
in writing. ms sabine lautenschläger delivered a very satisfactory hearing before the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs. i therefore voted in favour of his appointment as a member of the executive board of the european central bank.
in writing. i voted in favour of the appointment of ms sabine lautenschläger as a member of the executive board of the european central bank. it is a symbol of openness in an institution marked by a very masculine management
in writing. i have given my approval to the appointment of sabine lautenschläger as a member of the executive board of the european central bank (ecb) for a term of office of eight years. i approve the decision of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. as regards the consultation procedure as such, i welcome the binding value of parliament's approval of the appointment of the members of the executive board of the ecb. it is essential that parliament has a veto on all decision-making posts in the ecb, and beyond that on the major posts in the european institutions.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague sharon bowles on the appointment of a member of the executive board of the european central bank, ms sabine lautenschläger. the text was adopted by a very large majority, with 443 votes in favour, 47 against and 47 abstentions. i'm very pleased with this adoption.
in writing. the proposal to appoint sabine lautenschläger of germany to the executive board of the ecb follows the departure of jörg asmussen of germany from that post. he joined the spd-cdu coalition government as minister delegate for employment. it must be understood that this is an episode of mrs merkel's policy and is intended to strengthen the control of the german austerityists over the ecb. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. if she were to be appointed to the ecb's executive board, europe would sink deeper into austerity! the french newspaper la tribune wrote about his appointment: "the eurozone, still in the credit crunch, and threatened with deflation, did not need this new difficulty. but the spd has once again chosen to sacrifice the general european interest to its german interests. that view is correct. i oppose the appointment of sabine lautenschläger, the last piece of the puzzle in angela merkel's strategy to make the euro the new deutsche mark and the ecb the new bundesbank.
in writing. just a tax formality, i voted in favour of this text. it allows france to apply a reduced rate of certain indirect taxes to 'traditional' rum produced in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs huebner's report authorizing france to apply a reduced rate of certain indirect taxes on 'traditional' rum produced in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. this will help to support this local product which creates a wealth of products, especially flavourings.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the hübner report applying a reduced rate to certain taxes for 'traditional' rum produced in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. given the narrowness of the local market and the disadvantages of remoteness, the distilleries in the overseas departments can only develop their activities if they have sufficient access to the market in metropolitan france, their main trading partner. by adopting the report, the european union is promoting the economic prosperity of all its territories and of all its economic actors.
in writing. the outermost regions, such as guadeloupe, martinique and réunion, are a clear asset for europe. however, they are victims of their remoteness from the european capitals. and as a result, they face competition from neighbouring countries, which export similar goods but whose production standards are less stringent than the social and environmental standards imposed on european producers. for this reason, it is entirely justified that producers in these regions receive aid to rebalance competition and enable them to sell their products on the internal market.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague danuta maria hübner on the authorization given to france to apply a reduced rate of certain indirect taxes on 'traditional' rum produced in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. these preferential provisions, which are extended for the period 2014-2020, are justified by the geographical context and the narrowness of the local market for this type of traditional production. this text was adopted by a very large majority, with 455 votes in favour, 94 against and 22 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report authorising france to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to traditional rum produced in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion and sold in the territory of metropolitan france, which may be lower than the minimum rate of excise duty laid down by the european directive. i welcome the adoption of this text in response to the request of the french authorities and which maintains a 7-year derogation period until december 2020. this measure is important to support the activity of local distilleries overseas, which cannot develop their activities without sufficient access to the market in metropolitan france.
in writing. this report extends until 2020 the preferential tax regime for rum produced in the french overseas departments (guyana, martinique, guadeloupe, réunion). justified by their remoteness, insularity and production difficulties, this reduction in alcohol taxes expired at the end of 2013. i regret that, because of the commission's slowness and the british's excessive pressure, this scheme could not be extended before, even though the necessary applications were submitted by france almost a year ago. this has exposed these french rum productions to serious commercial dangers, whereas they are an asset for europe and the quality of the spirits offered to its inhabitants. i also think that the reference to the competitiveness assessment, which is added by this report, is completely unnecessary to justify the maintenance of this tax system in the future. on the contrary, it should be maintained in order to guarantee decent production conditions in the sugar cane-rum sector on a lasting basis. i therefore vote in favour of this report and ask the commission to implement it as soon as possible.
in writing. the report proposes to extend until 2020 the reduced rates of tax which france benefits from for rums produced in its overseas departments and intended for marketing in the metropolitan area. this preferential scheme had expired at the end of 2013. i voted in favour of this derogation which allows the continued support of rum production and sugar cane growers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this amendment to parliament's rules of procedure concerning the waiver and defence of parliamentary immunity. the commission also stressed that the european parliament's immunity was not a personal privilege of the member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and its members.
in writing. i voted in favour of the jääteenmäki report on the amendment of the european parliament's regulation on the waiver and defence of parliamentary immunity
in writing. i voted in favour of the jäätteenmäki report on the framework for the waiver and defence of parliamentary immunity. the report proposes legal protection for parliamentarians by laying down clear and precise rules. this parliamentary immunity allows for the free exercise of european democracy since it implies that meps cannot be prosecuted for opinions or votes they have expressed in the course of their duties.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague anneli jäätteenmäki on the amendment of the european parliament's regulation on the waiver and defence of parliamentary immunity. this is a normal procedure for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament in order to allow the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. this is a purely administrative procedure which does not rule on the substance of the case concerning the member who is the subject of the procedure. the text was adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the european parliament's regulation on the waiver and defence of parliamentary immunity. the report clarifies the procedure under which parliamentary immunity is granted as a guarantee of the independence of parliament as a whole and of its members.
in writing. the aim is to reform the rules applicable to parliamentary immunity in order to structure them in a more coherent way and to harmonise their content with recent case law and the practice of the committee responsible. i would point out, however, that this reform is aimed more at restricting the possibilities for members to defend themselves. the full freedom of members of parliament to exercise their mandate free from any pressure is a fundamental democratic requirement. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. genetic engineering offers hope in many areas, including the development of vaccines, more resistant and richer food production and new ways of combating pollution. the challenge is to advance science to meet the needs of today and tomorrow. however, whether it is placing on the market or cultivation, we demand much more serious management of applications for authorization of gmos, both for the amflora potato and for pioneer maize and all other types of gmos! this means, for example, increased financial and human resources so that the scientific studies carried out by the european food safety authority are much more comprehensive and naturally impartial. finally, it is a real pity that it is the council of ministers of the union or even the european commission that always has the final say on the procedures for the authorization of gmos. a sensitive and important subject such as gmos should always be submitted to the approval of the meps, the elected representatives of the european citizens. for all these reasons, i voted for this resolution opposing the cultivation of gm maize tc1507 in the eu.
in writing. i voted against the placing on the market of pioneer 1507 for several reasons. on the one hand, there is a clear lack of certainty about the possible environmental risks of this gmo. however, a risk has been identified, which is a risk to butterflies. our ecosystem is already in danger, especially with the bees, and we should not allow products whose effects are not guaranteed. this is the case with the gmo pioneer 1507. finally, pioneer did not respond to the european commission's request for amendment of the authorisation dossier, which shows the importance of the precautionary principle.
in writing. i voted against the marketing of genetically modified maize. while no gm crops have been authorised in the european union since 2010 and the long-term effects on human health are unpredictable, i am strongly opposed to gmos within the union. as a member of the european parliament, i defend the interests of the citizens of the union, the majority of whom are opposed to the cultivation of gmos and their use for food.
in writing. we have taken decisions on two dossiers related to the question of gmos. i first supported the report clarifying the legal status of pollen, particularly in relation to labelling in the event of traces of gmos in honey. i felt that the obligation to indicate the presence of traces of gmos, if such presence were to be found, would entail too high a cost for our beekeepers. i think that the consumer should be informed of the presence of traces of gmos in food products, but i think that pollen is a component of honey and not an ingredient. penalising our companies and beekeepers for traces of gmos that are caused by the fact that bees sometimes forage for gmos in fields several kilometres from their hives would have been an inadequate and costly administrative burden. on another report, however, i opposed the planting of the genetically modified maize pioneer tc 1507, given the lack of scientific evaluation of the possible environmental risks of this gmo which persist.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution that pioneer 1507 gm maize should not be authorised in the eu. we must first of all obtain better guarantees from the european food safety authority that this insect-resistant crop will not harm butterflies and moths.
in writing. this resolution opposes the commission decision authorising the placing on the market of genetically modified maize zea mays l 1507. i regret the end of the moratorium which protected europe from this scourge. the commission's insistence on allowing the placing of gm food on the market seems to me to be the prelude to the transatlantic market which is intended to flood the european market with these products. i am voting for this resolution which opposes it.
in writing. this european parliament motion for a resolution opposes the commission's proposal to authorise the placing on the market of genetically modified maize zea mays l 1507. the commission's request is not trivial and is, of course, intended to prepare the european market for the transatlantic free trade agreement which will allow american manufacturers to import these products into our market. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which opposes the commission's request to allow the placing on the market of a new gmo maize.
in writing. i voted in favour of rejecting the pioneer proposal to grow gm maize. the rejection is not a condemnation of gmos in general but a criticism of the european commission's lack of seriousness in its assessment of the marketing of gmos. on such a sensitive subject, we call for the financial and human resources of the european food safety authority to be strengthened and for the european parliament to play a greater role in authorisation procedures, representing citizens.
in writing. in november 2013, the european commission submitted to the council a proposal to authorise the cultivation of the gmo maize zea mays l.1507. if the council follows the commission's lead, this would be the first time in over 15 years that a gmo has been authorised for cultivation by the eu. the european parliament, which is not involved in the authorization procedure, which falls within the competence of the commission and the council, has no choice but to adopt resolutions to give its opinion and to try to oppose it. i voted against this authorization along with 384 other meps, only 201 were in favour. a large majority of the european parliament has therefore opposed this cultivation of gmos, in particular because the commission's proposal exceeds its implementing powers in the legislation concerned and because it is necessary to improve the procedures for evaluating authorization and renewal as some member states do and as environmental ngos have been asking for many years. i am sure that the council will follow the majority opinion of the european parliament, since a large majority of europeans are opposed to gmos. it is also time that on a multi-impact issue such as this, the european parliament could be involved in the decision-making process.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which underlines the importance of free movement in the european union. the ability of european citizens to move freely within the european area is at the very heart of the european project. the european union has a long history of supporting the right of asylum and the right to free movement.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the fundamental right to free movement because, while defending the right to free movement, which is a fundamental right in the european union, i refuse to accept that we cannot think of solutions to improve it, but also to better combat certain excesses in free movement such as crime. this resolution, which has no legislative force, prohibits almost any challenge to this principle, even by means of debates. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the joint motion for a resolution recalling the fundamental right to freedom of movement in the european union, as guaranteed by the european treaties. as of 1 january 2014, bulgarian and romanian workers can work in all eu member states; that's great news. however, in order to combat fraud and unfair competition, i urge member states to strengthen control measures and administrative requirements for companies posting workers. i believe that the mobility of workers is a factor in prosperity and economic growth.
in writing. in several european union countries, announcements by their governments or the positions of major political parties, sometimes members of coalition governments, are provoking your indignation today. these announcements are intended to envisage restrictions on the free movement and free establishment of european union nationals, or to restrict, albeit modestly, their access to certain social benefits. the countries considered to be 'rich', and which are becoming less so, are worried about having to bear the cost of european social solidarity, which the countries of origin are happy to throw away. the crisis, your sacrosanct freedom of movement, your regulations have turned europe, whether you like it or not, into a supermarket of the most advantageous social benefits on the one hand, and low-cost labour on the other. not only is it not illegal for a country to refuse to support people who have never contributed, or very little, to its social protection system, to protect the labour market from unfair competition or to limit immigration at a time when unemployment and poverty among its citizens are exploding, but it is even a duty. a duty to its own citizens, and a duty which must take precedence over the obligations imposed by brussels.
in writing. i strongly protest against the adoption of the joint resolution of the european parliament on respect for the free movement of workers. while i do not dispute this principle, which has contributed to the development of the internal market, it seems to me that this resolution would have been better served by taking account of the abuses and shortcomings associated with this principle when it is used unconditionally. the gap between the words of many meps and the reality felt by the citizens is growing dangerously wide. free movement can contribute to the growth of a country when it is short of labour or when it is a means of developing talent. however, we cannot ignore the increase in illegal residence and the fraud in social benefits that this has also generated. let's not give in to the angelism. yes, we must defend freedom of movement but we must also recognise and combat all the forms of abuse that this has generated. that is why i have decided not to support this resolution, which in my view does not at all respond to the concerns of the citizens and only further deepens their dismay at the european parliament.
in writing. on thursday, i voted against a draft resolution on the respect for the free movement of workers in the european union. although it seems essential to respect the principle of free movement as established by the treaties and european law, i am nevertheless concerned by the problems linked to the abuse of this right to free movement and by certain movements of illegal immigration within the eu.
in writing. free movement is a fundamental freedom guaranteed and protected by the european treaties. it's a vital skill. but we must think critically about the problems that may arise. we cannot condemn all talk just because it highlights the difficulties it can cause. there are failures and abuses. we have to recognize it and we have to do something about it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. this resolution recalls that the right of free movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union as a cornerstone of european integration and directly linked to european citizenship. it therefore totally rejects any proposal to limit the number of migrants within the eu and calls on the member states to refrain from any action which could undermine the right to free movement. it therefore obliges the member states to assume the situation created by the enlargement of the eu without social precautions. it obliges them to imagine a collective system for the decent management of internal migration rather than confining it to areas of poverty. this resolution is timely in the current context, amplified by the lifting of the transitional provisions on the free movement of workers from bulgaria and romania as of 1 january 2014. i vote for it.
in writing. the european union, before offering a single market, offers, above all, the fundamental right to be able to live and work in any member state, without discrimination or unequal treatment. however, restrictions on this free movement may be introduced for a specified period. thus, the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu in 2007 was followed by a transitional period until 1 january 2014. in order to deal with and prevent further restrictions on free movement within the eu, i have decided to support the european parliament's resolution which challenges the positions taken by some european leaders aimed at restricting the freedom of movement of european citizens. the aim is to ensure that the fundamental right to free movement is respected in the long term for present and future generations.
in writing. free movement is a fundamental freedom guaranteed and protected by the european treaties, in particular articles 12, 18, 40, 44 and 52. this is a key achievement, repeatedly confirmed and defended by the court of justice of the eu. however, we must think critically about the problems that may arise, in order to anticipate them better. we cannot condemn all talk just because it highlights the difficulties it can cause. we have to recognize that there are shortcomings and then work on them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the whole of this resolution on respect for free movement within the eu. the end of labour market restrictions for these citizens has triggered a wave of protests among western european countries fearing a massive influx of bulgarian and romanian workers. the resolution shows that this fear is unfounded, because the figures show that such an influx did not take place. moreover, the free movement of european citizens is a fundamental achievement of the european construction and this precious achievement should not be impeded. finally, there are already rules which very strictly regulate this freedom of movement and residence: european citizens have the right to move and settle in the territory of any member state, if they meet certain conditions - in particular, for stays of more than three months, if they are employed or selfemployed in the host member state, or have sufficient resources not to become a burden on the host member state and full health insurance, or are studying and have full health insurance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because bulgarian and romanian citizens are not second-class european citizens and i welcome the fact that the limits for workers from these countries expired in january. the right to live and work in a member state other than the member state of origin is one of the fundamental freedoms of the union and an integral part of european citizenship as recognised by the treaties. it may not be subject to discriminatory practices or unequal treatment. it was important that the european parliament should vigorously challenge the position adopted by some european governments, who are calling for the free movement of citizens to be modified and restricted according to the member states. i regret, however, that the majority of my colleagues did not agree to strongly condemn the xenophobic speeches heard in recent weeks from leaders and political representatives of all stripes, such as the statements of mr elmar brok and mr cameron. while nationalist retreat is fuelled by these speeches of hatred of the other, it is more necessary than ever to fight for the implementation of the universal values of freedom, equality, social justice and solidarity.
in writing. i am deeply shocked by the maltese approach of putting passports on sale to buyers who want to buy maltese and therefore european citizenship. this is totally contrary to the values of european citizenship. i therefore voted without hesitation in favour of this resolution, which strongly condemns the maltese approach.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the phenomenon of eu citizenship for sale. normally, you can apply for the nationality of a member state if you meet criteria such as residence, for example, place of birth. but for the very wealthy, it is also possible to buy a nationality. malta recently offered to acquire maltese and thus european citizenship for the "modest" sum of €650,000! even though states are free to give their nationality to whomever they wish, behind this 'sale' there is at once a discrimination between rich and poor, questions about the profile of the buyers and the implications for european citizenship. citizenship is a matter of rights but also of duties!
in writing. i voted in favour of adopting the joint motion for a resolution recalling the basic principle that european citizenship is not for sale. some member states, including malta, have adopted measures which have the direct or indirect effect of selling european citizenship. that is an unacceptable proposal. the european union is a political project which cannot be the subject of monetary negotiations. i believe in a europe of values, respectful of its citizens. european citizenship cannot be bought and sold.
in writing. malta has developed a programme to attract investment, limited to less than 2,000 people, which provides for the acquisition of maltese citizenship for foreign nationals who subscribe to it, subject to several hundred thousand euro in contributions and a number of checks. this is causing an uproar, even though other countries in the european union have the same type of programme but are not the ones to be blamed. we would like you to have the same concerns about the easy and even automatic granting of the nationality of certain member states to tens of thousands of people a year, some of whom do not even speak the language of the country correctly and have no intention of integrating. but the bottom line is that whether or not you agree with the various national regulations on access to citizenship is none of your business. this is a matter of the sovereign right of the states. european citizenship is an ideological tool. a few years ago, you even wanted to grant it to any non-european resident, with minimum conditions. it's amazing that you're defending today what you wanted to sell yesterday.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i am very concerned by the revelations of several cases in europe of citizenship of a member state, and therefore european citizenship, being granted through investment programmes. it is true that the states remain - and must remain - the only sovereign ones to grant citizenship to their countries. but it can only be observed that these sales practices give rise to certain discrimination which is unacceptable, thus creating 'second-class citizens' between those who acquire nationality solely on the basis of their wealth and others who, despite a long-term presence in the territory of a member state, regular payment of taxes and compliance with integration measures, still too often struggle to obtain the famous 'sésame'. such measures also risk opening new avenues for money laundering through fraudulent activities abroad, as none of these investment incentives provide for controls on the origin of the money invested. we therefore need a european approach which, in my view, will prevent the possible drift of a system which, if it were to continue, would further undermine mutual trust between states.
in writing. how incongruous the decision of the maltese socialist government to offer the acquisition of maltese nationality for the modest sum of €650,000! apart from the fact that in my view naturalisation is not bought but earned, i regret that the maltese government has not considered the adverse effects of such a decision for the rest of the european union. malta's citizenship allows anyone with the necessary funds to move and reside throughout the eu. and it is a safe bet that naturalisation candidates will not only be virtuous entrepreneurs and lovers of maltese culture, history and cuisine! we should be wary of such decisions which could fuel crossborder crime networks. i therefore call on the maltese government to reconsider this decision in a spirit of calm and european solidarity and on all other member states which might have similar temptations not to take the same path.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution condemning initiatives to grant national passports, and thus european citizenship, against financial investments, notably as recently proposed by the maltese government. this phenomenon, which is questionable in principle, could facilitate the movement of people affiliated with mafia networks in the schengen area or facilitate money laundering. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. the granting of citizenship is a matter of national subsidiarity and falls within the competence of the member states. however, by selling maltese citizenship, european citizenship is being auctioned off! this affects the european union as a whole. european citizenship comes with rights and duties. it is the expression of participation in our common project, and it is one of the pillars of the european union. the idea that this citizenship can be sold to the highest bidder is truly outrageous. the maltese government is betraying the trust that member states must be able to have in each other, the trust that we have been trying to build for several years.
in writing. this resolution condemns certain practices in the issuing of passports in eu member states. the report therefore opposes the sale of passports and residence permits by certain states. in the cases mentioned, citizenship is acquired either through investments, which are also suspected of concealing money laundering, or through outright sale without residence requirements (especially in malta). national identity cannot be a commodity. the false national consciousness of a state in the midst of decomposition cannot be used as a pretext for such a challenge to the civic status of the nation. i vote for this resolution condemning them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which gives an overall picture of the progress of reforms, including democratic reforms, in serbia in 2013. it is important not to adopt too positive language towards serbia and the integration process as concerns remain about the independence of the judiciary and respect for the rights of several minorities in this country.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on serbia. this resolution follows the decision of june 2013 to open accession negotiations with serbia and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia on 1 september 2013. i would remind you that this does not mean automatic membership of the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the committee on foreign affairs on the opening of negotiations for serbia's accession to the european union. i do, however, agree with the recommendations in this report, which call for the establishment of a genuine rule of law, the protection of minorities and the establishment of a constructive social dialogue between the government and civil society. both the european union and serbia can benefit from this accession. i therefore support the full transposition of european legislation into serbian law.
in writing. i supported the resolution by my colleague jelko kacin, who welcomed the opening of accession negotiations with serbia, while stressing the need to act in the field of justice, the fight against corruption and media freedom. the resolution also welcomes the normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on serbia, welcoming the decision of the member states to open accession negotiations with serbia. the resolution therefore calls on the serbian government to implement the reforms, including socioeconomic reforms, which will enable it to meet the obligations of the treaties. particular attention should be paid to the fight against corruption and organised crime, which are widespread in the region.
in writing. enlargement policy has proved to be 'a powerful instrument for transforming society', according to the council's texts. it is clear that it is the effective instrument of neoliberalism. the resolution stresses this point, calling for structural reforms in serbia which have "been delayed". in the same vein, all this is embodied in the 'promotion of regional cooperation based on free trade'. liberalisation, privatisation and the wealth gap. who could wish that on their neighbor? the commission nevertheless makes a doctrine of it. the resolution also seeks to recognise kosovo as an independent state. the question is not settled by the un and some of our member states. for me, kosovo does not exist outside the us base there. the resolution of the conflict is a sine qua non condition for serbia's accession to the eu. i am surprised that the eu has not been so demanding, either with the stateless linguistic minorities in the baltic states or with the cyprus case. the resolution calls for the eulex forces in kosovo to be reinforced, as they work in conjunction with those of the nato war organisation. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which gives an overall picture of the progress of reforms, including democratic reforms, in kosovo. we also call for kosovo to be allowed to participate in regional organisations, including the council of europe, since france has recognised it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on kosovo. this resolution follows the agreement of april 2013 on the normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina in the framework of the eu-facilitated dialogue and the opening of negotiations by kosovo for a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) with the european union on 28 october 2013. this does not, of course, lead to automatic membership.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the committee on foreign affairs welcoming the efforts made by kosovo in the process of joining the european union. the report thus highlights the positive effects of government economic policies. the report also welcomes the normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo. europe must turn its back on conflict once and for all, and this rapprochement is a major symbol of this. the report is firm, however, on the many obstacles to kosovo's accession. the kosovo authorities are invited in particular to promote the efficiency, transparency, impartiality and independence of the judiciary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleague ulrike lunacek which welcomes the normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia and encourages the five eu member states which have not yet done so to recognise kosovo as a state. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on kosovo welcoming the opening of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo. this agreement is positive because it encourages the implementation of measures that will ensure greater stability in the region. the text reviews a number of important issues, such as the protection of minorities and cultural rights, the implementation of which remains a major challenge in kosovo. similarly, the fight against corruption and organised crime, which are widespread in the region, needs to be given special attention.
in writing. the resolution 'encourages the five member states which have not yet done so to recognise kosovo'. however, un resolution 1244 of 1999 provides for autonomy for kosovo, not independence. these european states are therefore entitled not to recognize it, as are the other 30 states of the world. it called for a swift conclusion of a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) to promote the 'rapid transition to a market economy' and 'the promotion of regional cooperation based on free trade'. theoretically, international "supervision" ended in 2012. the text calls for the european union to step up its activities on the ground. kosovo remains the 'playground' for many international missions with vague mandates and uncertain powers, most notably kfor of the nato warfare organisation. stabilisation of the region cannot be achieved by nato forces, nor will it be allowed by granting random rights to different ethnic minorities to create a state that is at odds with the people's conception of a republic. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which takes account of the change of government in iceland. this new conservative government has halted the process of joining the european union until the icelandic people have spoken on the subject in a referendum.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on iceland. the icelandic government has stated that accession negotiations will not be continued until a national referendum has been held. the public opinion polls show that a majority of icelanders want the accession negotiations to be completed. i hope that the referendum will be held within a reasonable time. above all, i hope that a rapprochement with iceland will allow a speedy settlement of the case of mr scheefer, who has suffered from not being able to see his daughter for 600 days following a binational divorce. our power to intervene is even more limited because of iceland's non-eu status.
in writing. i supported the resolution by my colleague cristian dan preda on the prospects for iceland following the elections after which the icelandic government had suspended the accession process pending a national referendum on the issue. the resolution notes that recent public opinion polls indicate that the population supports the continuation of these negotiations and proposes to contribute to the icelandic parliament's assessment of the evolution of the european union. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on iceland, which follows the suspension of accession negotiations by the new government, which plans to hold a referendum. we would like to remind you that the european union still considers iceland a candidate country and is following with interest the preparations for a referendum. the european union is in favour of welcoming a new member state with a long-standing democratic tradition, as well as strong institutions and civil society.
in writing. the report proposes to put pressure on iceland to join liberal europe. since the last elections, the new right-wing government in iceland has suspended negotiations for the country's entry into the european union and is proposing that its people decide via a referendum. not only that, but i am totally opposed to one of the criteria for integration into the eu, namely preparing economies for liberalism. i note that the polls are only mentioned in such texts when they are in line with the eu. and just a few months ago, polls showed that icelanders did not want to join the eu. the government is currently conducting an assessment of the accession negotiations and of the internal developments in the european union, which is in the throes of a crisis, in which the eu would like to participate, that is to say, to be both judge and party. whether or not we agree with the rest of the policy of this government, it is nonetheless democratically elected and it is not the eu's place to put pressure on this sovereign country. i vote against
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which takes account of the dramatic humanitarian and political situation in south sudan and calls for a swift and peaceful resolution of this conflict which has torn the sudanese people apart for far too long.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in south sudan, a country on the brink of chaos
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in south sudan. the world's youngest nation, south sudan has been the scene of violence and human rights violations since its inception. thousands have died in armed conflicts. the european union must react and commit itself to the defence of human rights. i also renew my support for the 5 990 un missioners present in the country as part of the minuss mission.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the current situation in south sudan which deplores the deteriorating health situation in the refugee camps. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution, which strongly condemns the latest outbreaks of violence in south sudan following the recent escalation of violence, stemming from a political conflict at the top of the state. with this text, we urge both sides to reach an agreement for an immediate ceasefire and to seek a path to lasting peace and stability.
in writing. this resolution does not in any way describe the political realities in south sudan. it fails to see that the struggle for power is about creating and exploiting ethnic divisions that are leading this country into all-out civil war. this report deliberately ignores the cutting on the underground mining lots. this situation puts the people at the mercy of an incompetent and corrupt government and the big powers who interfere in the management of the country not to help it develop but to manage the extractive industry. it strongly supports the peace process, the reinforcement of un troops, the work of humanitarian workers and condemns the many human rights violations. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in south sudan. south sudan is the world's youngest state, created in july 2011, and is currently in the grip of a terrible civil war. this war has caused the displacement of more than 500 000 people since the beginning of the fighting on 15 december, when the president of south sudan, mr kiir, accused his vice-president of attempting a coup d'état. vice-president machar rejected this accusation, accusing the president of having wanted to eliminate his rivals. this political rivalry is compounded by a conflict between ethnic groups: mr kiir's dinka ethnic group and mr machar's nuer ethnic group. fighting has now spread to much of the country, with the rebels controlling several areas in the oil-rich north. the conflict has already claimed several thousand lives, according to the un, which has denounced atrocities on both sides. the resolution adopted expressly calls for the perpetrators of crimes against humanity against the civilian population to be prosecuted and for the two sides to reach an agreement quickly to restore peace in south sudan.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a european union strategy for the homeless. these citizens, who are sometimes deprived of their rights, must be defended like everyone else and must be able to benefit from a european-level strategy to help them. i have supported the idea that the esf could be used to help them.
in writing. i supported the joint motion for a resolution calling for the development of a european strategy to combat homelessness and for a strong commitment by the eu member states. the report calls on the member states to implement the european fund for the most deprived quickly and effectively in order to combat poverty and insecurity. civil society, local, regional and national authorities must be the guarantors.
in writing. it is crucial that the european union develops a strategy to reintegrate the homeless in a sustainable way and to break the cycle of isolation. the economic difficulties facing the eu have increased the drop-out of the most economically vulnerable. emergency housing for the homeless is suffering from a severe shortage of places. in paris, for example, there are only 3,500 places available for about 8,000 homeless people, a figure which shows the scale of a housing crisis which particularly affects the unemployed young, migrants and the 'working poor'. while this is the responsibility of local and national authorities, the commission must nevertheless endeavour to take the problem of homelessness into account in its recommendations to the member states.
in writing. three months after the adoption of a resolution calling on the european commission to launch a european strategy for the homeless, i regret that no concrete proposal has yet emerged. that is why i supported this resolution calling on the european commission to finally act, especially as the economic crisis is putting more and more people on the streets, impoverished by precarious work and individual situations of precariousness. such a strategy should focus on housing, the quality of services available to the homeless, prevention, the situation of young people and cross-border aspects. it was also important for me to stress that it is not acceptable to see the flourishing of decisions throughout europe which penalize the homeless and make their reintegration into society more than improbable: being homeless is certainly not a crime. more than ever, we need to be empowered to fight against the discrimination faced by the homeless and the marginalisation of entire communities.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the european strategy for homelessness, which encourages the european commission and the member states to adopt measures to combat this phenomenon, which is worsening in the current crisis and increasingly affects young people. so i welcome the adoption of her.
in writing. the european union implements policies which it is free to regret the consequences of. with uncontrolled extra-european immigration and the accession of central and eastern european countries, the problem of homelessness has exploded in all countries with the most attractive labour markets and social systems, but also in those most affected by the crisis. the commission is concerned about this and is calling on the member states to put in place a strategy to eradicate this phenomenon by 2020. how did you do that? by what means? when we see budgets constrained by austerity policies and the insane policy of social dumping. so yes, poverty is spreading, "homelessness" in european jargon is exploding everywhere and not just for migrants. it is not by dealing with the effects that we combat the causes. the free movement, the free establishment and the immigration from outside europe must be questioned, the social systems reserved for nationals in a europe of free and sovereign nations which many people today wish for. i vote against this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution calling for the establishment of a european homelessness strategy, with the setting up of a high-level expert group to assist the european commission. the european strategy should address transnational homelessness, housing-based approaches, the quality of services to homeless people, youth homelessness.
in writing. this compromise resolution on the situation of the homeless is well-intentioned. it will have little practical impact. however, it does recall some principles such as the fact that poverty is not a crime. it also denounces the lack of social housing in the face of growing demand. the resolution therefore calls on the commission to develop an eu homelessness strategy in line with the guidelines set out in parliament's resolution of 14 september 2011. it's about time! i have no illusions about the effectiveness of such a position taken by parliament, but i abstain in order to encourage it.
in writing. this proposal is a compromise between the individual resolutions of the green, liberal, socialist and christian-democratic groups. the lack of ambition of this proposal is regrettable, since no concrete measures are proposed on housing and the criminalization of homelessness is not condemned, but the situation seems to me too dramatic to risk the status quo. i voted in favour of this resolution, which is a positive signal and which i hope will lead to concrete measures to combat this scourge.
in writing. the number of homeless people is rising dramatically in the member states most affected by the crisis. 8% of the population of the european union lives in extreme material deprivation and more than 400 000 people sleep on the streets every night. this is not a crime or a lifestyle choice contrary to popular belief but the consequence of the growth of wealth gaps. it is mainly up to the member states to take the ad hoc measures to find solutions, the eu has almost no competence in social matters but a european strategy could play a complementary role. the resolution urges the union to develop a strategy without further delay, based on the evolution of the number of homeless people at european level, the compilation of policies and services for homeless people in the member states and the promotion of social innovation. we could have gone much further, because only the introduction of austerity policies is capable of stopping the growing social misery, but it is difficult to oppose this catalogue of good feelings on the sole grounds that it does not go far enough. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. as agreed in the french epp delegation (ump and udi), i voted against the alternative resolution of five political groups close to the original report by my austrian colleague (greens group), ulrike lunacek, on an eu roadmap against homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. it was not possible to remove paragraphs which, for some, fall within the sovereignty of the member states (family law, mutual recognition of the effects of all civil status acts, such as marriage) and therefore do not fall within european competence and, for others, require more political debate, for example the concept of gender identity. i believe it is essential to combat all homophobic behaviour and discrimination based on sexual orientation. it is unacceptable that among lgbti people, 26% are victims of violence and 20% of occupational discrimination because of their sexual orientation. a road map is therefore needed, but without affecting family law, which is a matter for the sovereignty of the member states. i am convinced that defending the family is compatible with combating discrimination based on sexual orientation.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the 2005 directive on unfair trading practices has proved its usefulness and effectiveness, with general principles according to which a practice can, on a case-by-case basis, be described as unfair or with a blacklist of practices still considered as such. however, we are facing new challenges today, major challenges arising from the development of new technologies. this is not only linked to the development of e-commerce, but also to the explosion of social networking and the proliferation of files of all kinds. this creates new unfair practices which also pose new challenges. i would simply like to mention three of them which are of particular concern and which have arisen from the rise of the internet. first, the confusion between independent information and advertising, for example in the form of dishonest comparisons of goods and services or, at the very least, maintaining ambiguity for dishonest purposes. i am thinking, for example, of the false comparators: those who charge companies whose products they recommend to buy by pretending to be objective. the second concern is false consumers and all the deception that can be made about the true identity of the author of a post on the internet, for example. unfortunately, it is not uncommon for certain traders to impersonate consumers in order to disseminate hidden advertising, and this is scandalous. third example, ip-tracking is also a practice that tends to spread. it involves artificially raising the price of a good or service each time a consumer visits the same web page from the same computer, giving them an artificial impression of urgency or scarcity that pushes them to buy immediately when there is no reason for it. the directive also faces other challenges: there are changes in behaviour and attitudes. with the growing awareness of the importance of sustainable development, greenwashing is in vogue. false environmental claims are on the rise. consumers may choose one product over another because they think they are making a better choice for the environment, or because they are willing to pay more for it, when in reality they are being duped. the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow draws the attention of the commission and the member states to these new practices. we want them exposed and fought. we believe that there is no need to amend the directive to that end because, by extension, it covers the cases i have just mentioned. however, there is one condition for the directive not to be amended: that it be properly applied, fully applied and fully applied. in other words, let the member states put the resources into it. i am thinking in particular of adequate resources but also of effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions against offenders. this is not sufficiently the case where, for example, the fines are lower than the abusive profits resulting from these bad practices. the commission must play its full part, obviously by monitoring the application of the directive, that is, by prosecuting those states which infringe the directive, do not implement it or do not ensure that it is applied properly. madam president, some people doubt the usefulness of europe, some say that it is concerned with things that are very far from the concerns of the citizens. i would like to conclude by saying to them that they are sometimes wrong. the directive on unfair trading practices is a concrete text example of what europe does well on a daily basis, provided, of course, that the states apply it correctly. we need to do even better in this area.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur for including the reference to ip-tracking in his report. this practice raises serious concerns among internet users and consumers and would, if proven, constitute fraudulent use of protected personal data. this practice is apparently growing in the air transport sector, where there is a severe lack of transparency in tariff policies. i therefore renew my call on the european commission to investigate the frequency of this practice and to adopt appropriate legislation if necessary.
in writing. the most vulnerable must be protected, and it is true that women without papers are particularly vulnerable. however, we cannot call for granting asylum to all undocumented women, simply because they do not have papers, or for creating specific rights for women who are in fact in an irregular situation. while we must protect women victims of human trafficking and do everything possible to combat their exploitation, we cannot reasonably expect that undocumented persons can lodge anonymous complaints against their employers. that is an irresponsible position which i cannot support in any way.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. as rapporteur, i would like to begin by thanking the fictitious rapporteurs and all the political groups. it was thanks to our excellent cooperation that we were able to achieve unanimity in the committee on legal affairs on a sensitive subject such as copyright in the digital age. collective management companies are associations set up by artists and authors to defend their interests. it is the collective management societies that guarantee all european creators, not just the most famous ones, adequate remuneration for the use of their works and offer them social benefits. in the past, we have had to lament some examples of malfunction. from now on, collective management companies will have to comply with strict regulations. in addition, they will play their full role in european cultural policy and contribute to cultural diversity. we have achieved three objectives with this text. first, to guarantee the exercise of the rights of creators and artists. we have introduced greater transparency into the financial management of their accounts to avoid abuse or conflicts of interest. we have shortened the time for distributing the amounts collected. we have established the central role of the general assembly in the decision-making and control process so that the functioning of collective management societies is truly democratic. the second objective is to improve relations between collective management organisations, commercial users and citizens. relations between collective management organisations, broadcasters, radios and platforms now include reciprocal information obligations, in particular on the tariffs applied, which will simplify the licensing of copyright-protected works. if a platform like spotify gets a music catalog faster and cheaper, it means that european users will have easier access to the music of their choice. the third objective is to consolidate the digital single market. collective management societies will play a facilitating role in the internal market. instead of having to apply to 28 member states before being able to launch a pan-european online music service, the text will allow european platforms and start-ups to apply to a limited number of collective management organisations that will license the use of a global music repertoire. this is a real innovation. a spaniard or a greek living in brussels will have extensive, rapid and inexpensive access to the music of his country of origin. in conclusion, i note that copyright issues in the digital age have generated a lot of debate, but our work has changed the position. with this unanimous vote in the legal affairs committee, we have demonstrated to both the british conservatives and the swedish pirates our willingness to legislate in the general interest and in the interest of the digital single market. this directive is proof that copyright is easily adaptable to the digital world. it is proof that copyright is not a hindrance but an asset, a lever for growth and a source of jobs for the digital single market.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats welcomes the result achieved on the directive on collective management companies between parliament and the council. i think we should also thank the lithuanian presidency, which has facilitated the conclusion of this agreement. i would like to congratulate the european parliament on the very good work it has done in the run-up to this trilogue, thanks in particular to the very constructive and collaborative working method adopted by the rapporteur, marielle gallo. this apparently very technical directive on the operation and control of collective management societies is in fact an essential part of the way copyright works in the european union. collective management organisations are key players in the collection of rights and, above all, in their fair redistribution to all categories of rightholders. they are also the engines of cultural creation and dissemination. it is therefore essential that this system be based on strong principles of trust, transparency and good governance. this directive now guarantees that. in anticipation of the debates which will be taking place in the coming months, and which commissioner barnier has just announced will be extended, it would be good if the consultation could be offered in languages other than english. collective management societies will be essential partners because they represent all those involved in cultural creation and dissemination. in the term 'collective management companies' i would like to emphasize the term 'collective'. it is probably the most significant in designating a management system which recognizes the sovereignty of the general assembly, in which all members are directly represented. this is a rare management principle that should be highlighted. it classifies collective management societies in the social economy sector on the same basis as cooperatives. this specificity has been protected from unfair competition between agents and commercial companies dealing exclusively in rights licences. with this directive, which is the basis for a strong and aggressive european cultural policy, i think we have the elements of cultural creation, dissemination and diversity.
mr president, better management, efficiency, increased transparency in tariffs, revenue distribution and accounting practices, better governance, multi-territorial licences... the issues surrounding collective management are crucial. this legislation is eagerly awaited by the general public and the authors, who are a million members of these collective management societies. the advances made by this directive are at the heart of these priorities, which many of us have been advocating for several years, and they are real. this text thus lays the foundations for the reform that is expected. i welcome this because, by deciding on new approaches to rights management, we are helping to protect both creativity and cultural diversity, while promoting a more transparent, fairer and more democratic society. the ball is now in the court of the member states, which will have to implement the advances of this directive effectively.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would also like to thank commissioner barnier and my colleagues with whom we have indeed worked very constructively - this is also thanks to their own qualities - and to thank the lithuanian presidency, which has helped us a great deal on this matter. i will not go into detail, but i would just like to express my conviction that it is in the field of the creative and cultural industries that we europeans have the greatest chance of having international champions. we must therefore make every effort to ensure that this sector grows, especially in the digital age.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i will not derogate from the unanimity expressed in this house on the revision of this directive. on behalf of my group of environmentalists, i wholeheartedly and unreservedly welcome this final agreement and i personally congratulate the rapporteur, arlene mccarthy, on her active role in the negotiations. she was a composer without giving up. i shall not go back on the content of the decision. i agree with what the commissioners and my colleagues have said. i would just like to make a comment, perhaps a little more political, on the substance. on this issue, europe has now gone all the way. she wasn't afraid of her own shadow. it has succeeded in reaching the end of its regulatory logic by establishing a strong and dissuasive sanctions regime for financial crimes which, as we know, have worsened the crisis in our european countries. i should like to stress the political significance of this directive on the eve of the european elections. europe, which today faces scepticism and, very often, rejection of public opinion because it has, perhaps, too often hesitated before the manipulations of the banking sector, which at times has been teased by this sector, europe is this time showing courage and determination with all its institutions: the european parliament, the commission and the european council. it sends a message which seems to me to be extremely clear to the public: those who believe and have believed that everything is permissible in the financial sphere should know that from now on there are rules and that abuses will be severely condemned. it is zero tolerance, as the commissioner said. europe, with this dossier, is showing itself to be more than a machine for spreading austerity. it is becoming a vehicle of justice and morality, as commissioner barnier said.
mr president, i would like to raise a point of order, especially since my name is mentioned in the report on the immunity of mrs lara comi. firstly, i am glad that mr ziobro was given the floor on his immunity, but i would like to point out that i was denied the floor in the plenary. secondly, i note that mr rapkay and the majority of the committee consider that when mrs comi speaks of the economy, she is acting as a member of the european parliament, and that when i speak of immigration, which is a matter for the european union, i am not acting as a member of the european parliament.
president of the italian republic. mr president, dear friend, i thank you very much for your warm welcome and for your friendly expressions of appreciation for my institutional commitment to the service of italy and europe. i am returning to this house seven years after the homage i wished to pay to the european parliament shortly after my election as president of the italian republic, and i take up today the opportunity offered to me by your president to renew that homage, basing it on reflections arising from the most recent experience of all of us. in the past seven years, the european project has been faced with the most difficult tests in its history. it has often been observed that from the outset community europe developed through crises which gradually arose and were then overcome, but these were essentially political crises in relations between member states of the community; the european union is facing a new challenge: structural crises, the capacity for economic and social growth, the functioning of institutions, the basis for consensus among citizens. the continuation of the path taken was therefore never called into question, and never was it radically called into question. this is the context in which the elections for the renewal of the european parliament are being held. i therefore believe that the situation that has arisen, although it varies in size and form from one country to another, must be regarded as a moment of truth, to be dealt with in its entirety and with all its implications. it is quite clear that the main source of disillusionment, mistrust and rejection of the european project and, above all, of the work of the union's institutions, is the deterioration in living conditions and social status which has affected large sections of the population in most of the member states of the union and the eurozone. the emblematic figure, summing up all the negative and traumatic effects of the crisis, is the increase in unemployment, the dramatic rise in youth unemployment. it is therefore natural that the issue of a breakthrough capable of leading to the real revival of growth and employment which is considered by all parties to be essential and desirable has taken on a clear priority in the public debate and in the political debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the latter has been the predominant response to the sovereign debt crisis in the euro area and has favoured drastic measures to contain the deficit-to-gdp ratio, to rebalance, in forced stages, the public finances in each euro area country. in the face of the crisis, which had seriously jeopardized the financial sustainability of the eurozone countries, it was necessary to define and make binding a budgetary discipline which had been seriously lacking since the introduction of the single currency. you have therefore rightly contributed, as the parliament of the union, to the launching of important packages of measures to establish a strict framework for monitoring and coordinating budgetary decisions of the euro area member states. italy in particular has made considerable efforts and sacrifices in recent years, being subject to strong pressures on the financial markets because of the level of interest on the huge public debt accumulated in the previous decades. and even the marked improvement in this respect achieved in 2013 cannot dissuade us from the commitment to gradually and substantially reduce debt, a heavy burden that cannot be placed on the shoulders of the younger generation by the national ruling class. but the consequences of the severe stabilization measures adopted by the union and anchored to the maastricht parameters have had undeniably serious repercussions in terms of recession, falling gross product and domestic demand, especially in the countries called upon to make the greatest sacrifices, and this despite the courageous choices made by the ecb to combat speculation on the market for government bonds and to inject liquidity into the very tried economies of the euro zone. the change many people are calling for today cannot therefore be accompanied by demagogic irresponsibility and a retreat into situations of excessive deficits and debts. it must, however, reflect the awareness of a vicious circle which has now developed between restrictive policies in the field of public finances and the backwardness of the european economies, which are now at the crossroads between the first signs of recovery and the risks, if not of deflation, of substantial stagnation. breaking what has become, in many respects, a vicious circle - suggesting to an authoritative scholar like claus offe the image of a 'trapped europe' - is now essential, especially if we look at the condition of an entire generation today adrift. the same applies to a recovery in growth - if weak and not geared to specific objectives for the unemployed young people - which tends to offer poor and bad employment. in this connection, account must be taken of the radical technological changes that have taken place and are still taking place, and of the difficult competitive situation with large non-european economic areas. reforms of training systems and the labour market must therefore be carried out where they have not already been carried out, and investment must be made in knowledge, research and the preparation of the young workforce for new opportunities and forms of employment. sustained and qualified growth certainly requires structural reforms, but it also requires a revival of private investment and well-targeted public investment in the service of european and national projects. this requires beyond reference to rigidly defined parameters greater attention to the actual conditions of debt sustainability in each country and, in this connection, sufficient openness on the ways and timing of further financial rebalancing. the european parliament gave useful guidance in the wide-ranging resolution adopted on 12 december, which was inspired by the criteria of renewed solidarity within the union and in particular the eurozone. from the banking union, launched by the european council in june 2012, to an adequate budgetary capacity of the union based on specific own resources, to strong rules for the coordination of economic and national policies, ensuring greater cohesion between the economies of the member states: these and other elements are placed in your resolution in the context of a relaunch of the strategy of 'differentiated integration', with particular reference to enhanced cooperation in the field of economic and social policies. the resolution also makes reference to the unexplored potential of the existing treaties and to the need for future amendments to the treaties. in short, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a profound change in the way the european union is and operates. the citizens-electors are not faced with a misleading choice between tired, rhetorical defence, on the one hand, of a europe which has shown serious shortcomings and distortions in the path of its integration and, on the other hand, destructive agitation against the euro and against the union. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. no, that's not the terms of the choice. (the president cut off the speaker)
president of the italian republic. - in fact, faced with a dramatic financial, economic and social crisis, the european institutions have moved with difficulty, amidst too many hesitations, divergences and slowness, but they have certainly moved in the direction of correcting previous behaviour. president draghi denied at a conference in berlin last november that there was any "lost decade". the euro area countries were encouraged, he said, to 'use the second decade of the euro to undo the mistakes of the first'. there is no rhetoric in these words, but a clear self-critical awareness. the euro was an innovation of historical value, but for too many years it remained a monkey's paw, devoid of essential complementarities, which can only be explained by anachronistic national closures and entrenchments in fields which, after the introduction of the euro, could not remain under national sovereignty. the gravity of the crisis has overcome many resistance and pushed strongly in the direction of greater integration. however, as regards the method and legal framework which prevail, there is no doubt that this has been done in the light of intergovernmental decisions and international agreements, outside the community framework, and that it will therefore be necessary, as parliament calls for and as the fiscal compact itself provides, to 'place the governance of a genuine economic and monetary union within the institutional framework of the union'. the question of a decisive strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of decisionmaking within the union is therefore: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. i would like to say that - in the crisis of popular consent which the european union and the integration process are suffering - there is the full weight of the economic and social malaise which the union has not been able to avoid, but there is also the weight of a serious political shortcoming, in various forms, in terms of information and involvement of citizens in shaping the union's policies and choices. and the change to be proposed to the electorate must therefore go beyond economic and social policies. the challenge must also go beyond these areas, to the forces that deny and oppose the project of european integration, its continuity and its necessary and possible renewal. a new era of economic growth, sustainable in all respects, is essential to rebuild confidence, but it is not enough to guarantee the democratic legitimacy of the integration process if it is not accompanied by new institutional and political developments in the life of the union. i think that those of us who believe in the cause of a united europe can prepare for the elections with serenity and confidence, as agents of change, all the more so if our design and experience are given their full face, their full richness, after having seen a reductionist, economic version prevail in recent years, with heavy technical connotations. the vision of what has actually been built in just over half a century has been attenuated and must be forcefully re-proposed: the community is not just a common market and an area of economic cooperation, but a community of values and, with it, a complex community of law, structured in the name of freedom and democracy. the european project has been continually broadened and the prospect of a common european vision and capacity for action in the field of international relations and defence and security has also emerged. the leaven of this unprecedented construction was the feeling of a very rich common culture: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i draw the conclusion from all this that the foundations of the european construction are now so deep, that there is such a deep-rooted interconnection and interpenetration between our societies, our institutions, the social forces, the citizens and the young people of our countries, that nothing, nothing can bring us back. so there is empty propaganda and little credibility in the words of those who have taken a liquidating attitude towards what we have built over the past decades, from the europe of the 6 to the europe of the 28. how can one speak of the 'end of the european dream' and claim that this end could be avoided by abandoning the euro to save the union? the feasibility and traumatic consequences of such an abandonment are considered by some with disarming simplicity, nor do i see what the place should be and who the guarantors of such an unlikely exchange should be. in fact, despite the proliferation of catastrophic predictions of the imminent collapse of the euro in recent years, the institutions of the union and the most farsighted national political leaders understood that to safeguard the entire european project it was essential to defend the euro. but it was necessary to come to terms with the mistakes made, which were clearly due to the weakening of the common political will which had made that leap forward possible and which was to have presided over all the subsequent developments in european integration, together with the processes of german unification and the enlargement of the union. if what we are experiencing today, and which will be manifested in the forthcoming electoral contest, is - as i said at the beginning - a moment of truth for the cause of european unity and the future of europe, the decisive condition for success is a new, stronger and more decisive common political will, capable of conveying to the widest possible audiences the historical reasons and the new motivations of the european project. to convey them rationally and emotionally: it must be a message of passion, of deep feeling, like the one conveyed by the great images of the past decades. the one, for example, of françois mitterrand and helmut kohl, who hold hands and pay tribute to the dead in the terrible battle of verdun during the first world war. it has been written that these "two great europeans were imbued with the tragic sentiment of history": the european community is a community of nations, and the european community is a community of peoples, and the european community is a community of peoples. but i have never been infected by the fear that, in passing on political and governmental responsibilities to succeeding generations, the inspiration, the awareness, the common european political will, culminating in the unification of the entire continent on the basis of peace and freedom, might be dissolved. however, the question of whether these have not been dissolved and can find their strength in a different and new context is what must now be put to the test. of course, the motives of the european project have changed and they can speak well to the europeans of this century, to the europeans of today's world. yesterday the springboard of ending economic and political nationalism, which generates fatal conflicts, was a powerful springboard for winning consensus for the cause of european unity. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. europe as a whole has become smaller than other continents in terms of population, economic power and its role in the world balance, but if it can combine its forces more and more, it can continue to make its peculiar contribution to the historical development and future of world civilization. the new and exciting mission of a united europe is to bring to life, in the current of globalisation which could overwhelm us as european nations, our historical identity, our unmistakable cultural heritage, our example and model of supranational integration, of the community of law, of the social economy and of the market. but if this mission is to be shared by the peoples of our union and be carried out successfully, we need stronger european political cohesion, more convinced and determined european political leadership. thirty years ago, exactly thirty years ago here in strasbourg - let me remind you - altiero spinelli succeeded in making the european parliament express this leadership capacity with the draft treaty bearing his name. the opportunity was not seized then, but its constitutional inspiration has continued to live and count, also because its idea of a federal europe had nothing to do with the scarecrow stirred up by various parts of a centralized super-state. we have therefore come a long way since 1984, but there are still hard political battles to be won, if not against the possibility of aggressive nationalism, then certainly against the persistence of national selfishness and meanness, against narrow-mindedness, calculations of convenience and anachronistic conservatism, which are daily found in the national ruling classes. what is missing today, as helmut schmidt recently noted, is the "long-sightedness" of too many european leaders, who are not sufficiently aware of the decline threatening europe. the founding fathers and builders of the community were not only "imbued with the tragic sentiment of history", they were also the bearers of a bold and realistic vision of the future. and this can only be achieved today, or in the years to come, by a policy which finally becomes european, whereas, up to now, in a continent as interconnected as ours, politics has remained national, with its fatal limitations and widespread degeneration. a european policy, a european public space, european political parties, what is the political union of which we speak, if we do not make democratic political confrontation, competition between the different ideological currents and organized political forces, a reality on a european scale? this is a great leap forward and one on which the european parliament and its members have much to say, in close liaison with national parliaments and parliamentarians, in order to reach the broadest masses of citizens, involving them in a more informed and active political participation in the building of a more united, more democratic, more effective europe. the original and vital nucleus of european political parties is already at work in this parliament. it is here that the greatest sensitivities and skills are gathered on which to base a political message for the governance of europe to be shared with the citizens, beyond the code language and the complex technicalities of the union's governing institutions. it is in your hands, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and in your hands in large measure, to give birth to and develop the political dimension of european integration in the new phase of development which it is about to enter. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
in writing. i voted in favour of this text amending regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 to allow greenland to participate in the kimberley process (pk) certification scheme for trade in rough diamonds. greenland would be considered an integral part of the territory of the european union and this would facilitate trade in this area.
in writing. i voted for the inclusion of greenland in the implementation of the kimberley process certification system. this process of certifying rough diamonds, known as the kimberley process, is supposed to prevent parallel circuits that have financed bloody conflicts in africa. this process is believed to have put an end to the "blood diamonds".
in writing. the amendment includes greenland in the implementation of the kimberley process certification system for international trade in rough diamonds. the system is designed to curb the trade in war diamonds, which are used to finance rebel movements. including greenland will help to regulate the diamond trade with that territory, where melting ice is creating new opportunities for mining.
in writing. unfortunately i was not able to take part in the vote on the report by my colleague vital moreira, but i would have supported it insofar as it sets out the conditions under which greenland may export rough diamonds accompanied by the union certificate, as defined by the kimberley process. i welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because, with the amendment of regulation 2368/2002, we will allow greenland to participate in the certification system for the trade in rough diamonds. greenland would thus be able to export rough diamonds accompanied by the union certificate.
in writing. these proposals aim to enable greenland, an autonomous territory of denmark and a member of the union's list of overseas countries and territories , to participate in the kimberley process certification system for international trade in rough diamonds (import and export) in the framework of its cooperation with the european union. this process, which is the result of the un, sets minimum regulations to avoid, among other things, feeding violent groups. however, it ignores greenland's sensitive ecosystem and encourages extractivism. i vote for it.
in writing. this regulation will allow greenland to participate in the kimberley process, which certifies exported rough diamonds. this system, introduced in the early 2000s, has significantly reduced conflict related to diamond mining. today, the main concern is to guarantee the origin of the minerals exported. as rapporteur for my group, i could only support the principle of extending this process to a new country, which is why i voted in favour of it in the plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text amending regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 to allow greenland to participate in the kimberley process (pk) certification scheme for trade in rough diamonds. greenland would be considered an integral part of the territory of the european union and this would facilitate trade in this area.
in writing. i voted for greenland's participation in the kimberley process certification system. this process of certifying rough diamonds, known as the kimberley process, is supposed to prevent the parallel circuits that have financed bloody conflicts in africa. this process is believed to have put an end to the "blood diamonds".
in writing. the kimberley process for international trade in crude diamonds requires its participants to ensure that each batch of rough diamonds imported into or exported from its territory is certified. parliament has rightly established the rules for greenland's participation in this certification system. this would in particular strengthen the diamond trade between greenland and the european union, which would then be based on common standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because of the importance for greenland of joining the kimberley process, as the issue of exporting rough diamonds remains a sensitive one. i welcome the ban on greenland accepting imports or exports of rough diamonds without a valid certificate. furthermore, the draconian measures on the export of rough diamonds from greenland or on their import from third countries are part of a climate of surveillance which makes it possible to combat all kinds of illegal trafficking, which i welcome.
in writing. unfortunately i was not able to take part in the vote on the report by my colleague mr vital moreira, but i would have supported it in so far as it allows greenland to be represented in the kimberley process, allows it to export certified rough diamonds to the union and prevents the entry into or exit from the union of diamonds that would not have been certified in the kimberley process. i welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. - linking to the eu certification system as an overseas territory allows greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification system. joining this important innovative tool allows us to combat the flow of diamonds that finance rebel movements in wars against legitimate governments. the european union therefore welcomes this initiative and will monitor imports and exports of rough diamonds in accordance with regulation (ec) no 2368/2002.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because, with the amendment of regulation 2368/2002, we will allow greenland to participate in the certification system for the trade in rough diamonds. greenland would thus be able to export rough diamonds accompanied by the union certificate.
in writing. these proposals aim to enable greenland, an autonomous territory of denmark and a member of the union's list of overseas countries and territories , to participate in the kimberley process certification system for international trade in rough diamonds (import and export) in the framework of its cooperation with the european union. however, the report is particularly aimed at 'potential investors' - while it is up to greenland, which has limited resources and for which this new resource represents a development opportunity, to decide on ways to develop its diamond industry, so that it does not become a new resource to be plundered without ecological or social considerations. i'm not going to.
in writing. this decision will allow greenland to participate in the kimberley process, which certifies exported rough diamonds. this system, introduced in the early 2000s, has significantly reduced conflict related to diamond mining. today, the main concern is to guarantee the origin of the minerals exported. as rapporteur for my group, i could only support the principle of extending this process to a new country, which is why i voted in favour of it in the plenary.
in writing. the gradual introduction of the 'single euro payments area' (sepa) is intended to facilitate payments by citizens and businesses within the area of the 33 european countries concerned by this initiative (the 28 eu member states, monaco, switzerland, lichtenstein, norway, iceland and san marino). although this transition should end on 1 february, delays have occurred and an extension until 1 august 2014 is therefore necessary. i therefore voted in favour of this report implementing this exceptional extension of the deadline for implementing this measure.
in writing. i voted for the report on migration to a european system of transfers and withdrawals for simplification of banking procedures.
in writing. with this text, we are giving the member states a period of six months to put in place the necessary arrangements for the creation of a single area for transfers and withdrawals in order to avoid payment incidents. it provides in particular for exemption from payment of fees to service providers in the event that a conversion between the two systems is necessary, in the absence of a migration of the user. this measure rightly makes it possible to support payment users - in particular individuals and smes, who would be the first to suffer from these incidents - in the establishment of a single area for transfers and withdrawals.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which provides for a migration to a european system of bank transfers and withdrawals. as crossborder financial exchanges are increasing, the european union must intervene.
in writing. i was unable to take part in the vote on the report by my colleague sharon bowles on the migration to a european system of credit transfers and direct debits amending regulation (eu) no 260/2012. this regulation establishes common technical and commercial requirements for transfers and withdrawals in euro and is therefore a central element in the implementation of a single euro payments area (sepa). it set 1 february 2014 as the deadline in the euro area for migration from national and intra-european transfers and withdrawals in euro to sepa transfers and withdrawals. the amendment introduced a retention of vested rights clause, which allows banks and payment service providers to continue to process non-sepa-compliant payments after 1 february 2014 for a period of six months, in parallel with sepa transfers and direct debits. i welcome the adoption of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation introducing a six-month derogation for euro area banks to migrate to a single european system of transfers and withdrawals in euro. the system, which aims to make all transfers in the euro area simple and secure, is expected to be in place by 1 august.
in writing. the proposal lays down requirements for transfers and withdrawals enabling banking interoperability. this is a technical measure to establish the single euro payments area (sepa), i.e. the creation of an internal market for payment services in euro in order to strengthen free competition. these measures primarily address the concerns of banks and do not bring any major tangible benefits to citizens and economic operators, apart from the significant costs of switching from one system to another. i am very critical of financial and banking liberalisation, of which this technical measure is only an appendix, and i am abstaining in order not to jeopardise the continuity of payments without approving this new banking encroachment.
in writing. the single euro payments area (sepa) aims to harmonise the means of payment in euro (bank transfers, direct debits, bank cards) between the member states. all countries of the european union, including those whose currency is not the euro, plus monaco, switzerland, liechtenstein, norway, iceland and san marino are members of the sepa. an update of european standards was due to come into force on 1 february, but the european commission wanted to make the transition period more flexible. the aim being to avoid any disruption to businesses and consumers, and the additional period being relatively short (6 months), i voted in favour of this report which implements in practice the conditions of the transitional period.
in writing. according to the international maritime organisation (imo), 24 000 people in the fishing industry die every year in the course of their work. in order to combat this situation, security measures must be taken, in particular through the implementation of the torremolinos international convention. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted for the single vote on the report by werner kuhn on the 2012 cape town agreement and the torremolinos protocol on the safety of fishing vessels. the vote was on a proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to ratify the cape town agreement concluded at the international maritime organisation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of the kuhn report authorising the eu member states to ratify the torremolinos international convention on the safety of fishing vessels. there are many risks involved in fishing which should be reduced as much as possible. the safety requirements for the construction and maintenance of fishing vessels contained in this convention will improve the working conditions of seafarers.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to improve the safety of fishing vessels by allowing member states to sign or ratify the 2012 cape town agreement. parliament approved a simplification of the rules for member states on the safety of fishing vessels, although it also envisaged stricter inspection visits. this is a significant step forward in an industry where accidents cause 24,000 deaths a year. i support improving the safety of fishing vessels, which also means helping to increase fishing capacity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which should help to strengthen safety on fishing vessels. according to the international maritime organisation, 24 000 deaths are recorded each year in the fishing sector worldwide. it is therefore more than necessary for this protocol to enter into force in order to guarantee a legal framework which provides greater protection for fishing vessel personnel.
in writing. i was unable to take part in the vote on the report by my colleague werner kuhn on the authorisation of member states to sign, ratify or accede to the cape town agreement of 2012 on the implementation of the provisions of the 1993 protocol to the torremolinos international convention on the safety of fishing vessels, 1977. this agreement will help to improve safety on fishing vessels. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. - in order to improve the safety of fishing vessels, we have acceded to the 2012 cape town agreement on the implementation of the provisions of the 1993 protocol to the 1977 torremolinos international convention. this agreement is in addition to the existing eu directives on fishing vessels flying the flag of an eu member state and on fishing vessels flying the flag of a third state. these rules not only guarantee a common safety regime for all vessels, mainly concerning navigation rules and life-saving equipment, but also ensure fair competition in eu waters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation for a cape town 2012 agreement which aims to improve the safety of fishing vessels of 24 metres in length or more through an international agreement on, inter alia, life-saving equipment and radio communications.
in writing. the absence of international rules on the safety of fishing vessels leads to the development of a genuine modern slavery. the maritime sector is global, so the rules need to be extended and harmonised. the european union should not enter into fisheries agreements without legal protection for seafarers. the development of safety at work, the extension of social rights and the protection of the environment are one and the same. by ratifying the cape town agreement on the safety of fishing vessels, member states will facilitate the entry into force of international regulations. i vote for it.
in writing. the vote by our parliament on the 2012 cape town agreement is a cause for satisfaction as it allows for the strengthening of measures related to the safety of fishing vessels in europe. far from imposing disproportionate constraints on small vessels, this text negotiated at the level of the international maritime organisation favours an adapted approach which genuinely takes account of the needs of small-scale fishing without sacrificing safety. this decision is primarily purely legal: the union is not a member of imo and therefore cannot ratify the cape town agreement of 2012, but as it is an exclusive competence, member states are not entitled to act without the commission's agreement. our vote therefore resolves this deadlock, but it also demonstrates the need for action to ensure that the european union joins the imo and negotiates on behalf of its member countries. shipping is international in nature, it knows no borders and our maritime policy can no longer be the sum of 28 national approaches but the manifestation of a unified global leadership.
in writing. the european union cannot achieve its political objectives if the member states do not effectively apply eu law on the ground. member states are responsible for the proper application of the acquis and are obliged to transpose directives in a correct and timely manner. the commission is responsible for monitoring the action of the member states and ensuring compliance with union law, including by means of legal action. i voted in favour of this report which seeks to explore new avenues for ensuring better application of european law.
in writing. i voted for the 29th annual report on the monitoring of the application of european union law (2011), because it is a good report.
in writing. this text presents the 29th annual report on the monitoring of the application of european union law. this type of document is important in highlighting the need to apply european law in an effective and uniform manner in the member states. this overview of the rule of law in europe rightly highlights the scope for further progress, particularly in the area of faster transposition of european legislation.
in writing. this report calls on the commission to monitor closely the actions taken by the member states and its role in monitoring the application of european law. delays in transposition increased by 60% in 2011 compared to 2010. it is becoming increasingly difficult for national administrations to integrate an exponential number of european texts into their legislative system, particularly when these directives compromise their economic, social or political interests. in addition, 85% of the european court of justice judgments are in favour of the commission, which raises questions about the court's independence. at the same time, in 2011, the commission decided for the first time to apply financial penalties for delays in transpositions. therefore, extended safeguard measures should be granted to member states to avoid such extreme decisions. this report demonstrates the role of an unelected, technocratic supranational administration in controlling states whose sovereignty is increasingly at risk.
in writing. i was unable to take part in the vote on the report by my colleague eva lichtenberger on the 29th annual report on the monitoring of the application of european union law (2011). it cannot achieve its policy objectives unless the member states apply union law effectively on the ground. the commission is thus responsible for ensuring compliance with union law, including by taking legal action. the report examines the results achieved with regard to the main elements of the application of union law and provides an overview of the strategic issues. i'm glad he was adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the monitoring of the application of union law by the european commission. the number of infringement procedures initiated by the commission against member states has decreased in recent years. nevertheless, we can regret that the delays in transposing european legislation are increasing.
in writing. this report takes stock of infringements for delayed transposition by the member states of the union. the idea is to legitimize the european commission's powers to control states that do not comply with legislation, in particular on insider trading and market manipulation, but also on austerity rules. in the context of the tscg and respect for the golden rule, this is a bad game for the time being, as the text requires contracting states to report their neighbours as "sinners" themselves. the conclusions will then enable the commission to impose sanctions under the lisbon treaty. the pretext of fighting financial crime is therefore a commitment to the rule of the troika's methods. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted on the request for defence of lara comi's parliamentary immunity: at the january 2014 plenary session, the european parliament decided on a request for waiver of parliamentary immunity (lichtenberger report) in a defamation action, following comments made by ms comi on a television programme. this report, however, concerns a request for the defence of parliamentary immunity lodged by lara comi on 16 october 2016 in the same case.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague, mr bernhard rapkay, on the request for defence of the parliamentary immunity of my colleague, ms lara comi. this report defends her parliamentary immunity insofar as the events involving my colleague (a television intervention) took place in the context of her mandate as a member of the european parliament and not as a national political figure. i welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of zbigniew ziobro.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague cecilia wikström on the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity of my colleague zbigniew ziobro, as this is a normal administrative procedure and does not rule on the merits. i welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. meps must constantly bear in mind the need to adopt protective standards where necessary, but also to reduce legal rules and provisions where they are no longer useful. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which reduces the administrative burden on entrepreneurs and citizens travelling to another member state.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation which aims to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. at this stage there is no agreement between the european parliament and the council. that is why the rapporteur has decided to put parliament's position at first reading to the vote. the proposal for a regulation provides, inter alia, for the cross-border use of simple copies and unofficial translations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which provides for the simplification of formalities relating to the cross-border acceptance of public documents. at a time when almost 12 million citizens live in a state of which they are not nationals, the introduction of multilingual eu standard forms for birth, death or marriage will ensure better access to the administration.
in writing. more than 14 million european citizens work and live in europe in a country other than their own and regularly face administrative hassles. it is to put an end to this situation that i have voted in favour of my colleague, mr bernhard rapkay's report, which aims to simplify the transnational recognition of official documents and to simplify the number of documents requiring certified translation. with this text, which i hope the council will adopt, the national administrations of the union should accept, for example, uncertified translations of school diplomas, residence certificates or intellectual property rights. as a member of the european parliament, my role is to help european citizens in their daily lives, and this includes removing unnecessary, time-consuming and costly administrative obstacles, including increasing the use of multilingual european forms for transnational use, which would solve the translation problem, as is already the case for the common electronic forms used for social security purposes.
in writing. one of the successes of european integration that is too often underestimated is the free movement of workers. in practice, anyone moving to another member state to pursue a profession there should not encounter any administrative or daily obstacles as long as they comply with the rules of that state. however, this common market project is not complete. there are still obstacles. this is why we, as legislators, strive to make it easier for citizens and businesses to move, bearing in mind that simplification and facilitation should not be synonymous with permissiveness and complacency. the proposal to simplify the acceptance of certain public documents is a laudable objective if, as a corollary, controls are not relaxed. it is this caution that led me to support two amendments limiting the scope of the regulation under consideration to documents from the official registers of the member states only. the cross-border use of plain text and unofficial translations, as advocated in mr rapkay's report, increases the risks of misuse and identity theft. parliament must be more vigilant at every stage of the legislative procedure. the citizens would not forgive him for his lack of firmness.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague bernhard rapkay to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. the report aims to reduce the requirements for legalising official documents and to harmonise the rules relating to them, while maintaining a high level of legal certainty. the text was adopted by a very large majority, with 573 votes in favour, 62 against and 44 abstentions. i'm very pleased with this adoption.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the recognition of public documents when citizens move within the european union. i welcome the parliament's position to facilitate the daily lives of the nearly 12 million european citizens who live in another member state when they are in contact with the administration of their country of residence.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to simplify crossborder formalities in order to facilitate the free movement of citizens and businesses. these provisions concern certified translations, apostilles and other means of recognising civil status documents. the principle of mutual trust will thus be applied, while the introduction of multilingual standard forms of the european union will make life easier for citizens and businesses operating abroad. i vote for it.
in writing. about 12 million eu citizens reside permanently or temporarily in another eu country. free movement between member states is one of the fundamental rights of european citizenship and everything that can promote its smooth functioning must be supported. i therefore voted in favour of this report by the european parliament which simplifies the acceptance of public documents issued by one member state in another member state. this includes civil status documents and should simplify their mutual recognition between member states. this includes, for example, certified or uncertified copies of identity cards, diplomas, documents certifying a disability, etc. in the future, this simplification should be extended to a wider range of document categories. another important element is the need to establish standard, multilingual forms, which is already common practice for electronic social security forms. it is therefore a tool to simplify administrative formalities between member states and should help to reduce the difficulties that european citizens may encounter when moving within the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it increases protection against the dangers of certain chemicals by adopting a common system of classification and labelling of chemicals, in line with the united nations system.
in writing. this text makes it possible to make the technical adaptations necessary to ensure the safety of users of chemical substances and mixtures. it does not, however, provide for changes in the scope and level of protection, but for a regular adaptation of the directives concerned in order to ensure the consistency of the union's policies in this field. the text is helping to simplify the measures affecting the chemical industry by aligning the references and terminology on a common basis. i fully support any further efforts to rationalize this legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to update the references and terminology of the five directives in order to bring them into line with european legislation on the subject. this report only increases consumer protection, which i welcome.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague sari essayah on health and safety at work on the alignment of certain directives with regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. this regulation aligns existing eu legislation with the united nations general harmonized system for the classification and labelling of chemicals (ghs), which identifies hazardous chemicals and informs users of the risks they pose by means of standardised symbols and phrases on packaging labels and safety data sheets. this report was adopted by a very large majority, 656 votes in favour, 15 against and 5 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of this technical text, which is necessary to align several directives on the protection of workers with a european regulation on the classification and labelling of chemicals.
in writing. the union regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures ('clp regulation') aligns current union legislation with the united nations general harmonised system for the classification and labelling of chemicals (ghs). this classification is used to identify hazardous chemicals and inform users of the risks they pose by means of standardised symbols and phrases on packaging labels and safety data sheets. the aim is to adapt five directives referring to the union legislation on classification to bring them into line with the new regulation. this is therefore a technical decision which does not involve any change in the scope or level of protection determined by those directives. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures considered to be dangerous, i.e. when they are explosive, flammable, toxic, corrosive, carcinogenic, etc. the european union has adopted a legislative framework on safety and health at work. the aim is to harmonise this framework, which is a set of directives, so that it is aligned with the un system for the classification and labelling of chemicals. this essentially technical report does not substantially amend the directives concerned, since it is simply a matter of updating the references and terminology contained therein. it is also an opportunity to recall the need to promote and, above all, maintain a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers when dangerous chemicals are present in their working environment. this is not unnecessary at a time when budget cuts are particularly hard on the health sector. it should also be noted that parliament took advantage of the revision of these directives to improve the labelling of the products concerned and to extend the list of these dangerous substances, in particular to better protect young people who handle these substances. that's a little more than i'd like to say.
in writing. copyright is a legal principle essential to the protection of creators' rights and therefore essential for the development of cultural works. the report aims to modernise the implementation of the rules applicable in this sector and to facilitate its transnational implementation. my colleague marielle gallo has done an excellent job on this, so i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marielle gallo on copyright and related rights. the multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use, in order to facilitate the licensing of online use of musical works, should stimulate the creation of online music services. this initiative helps to protect both authors and end users. speed, simplicity and diversity are the keywords of this directive on pan-european licences for online music services
in writing. i welcome the agreement reached after months of negotiations. the agreement will improve the functioning of collective management societies for copyright and facilitate legal access to online music in the union. i supported this fairly balanced text, which confirms the non-profit status of collective management companies and promotes new requirements for transparency and governance in copyright management. the negotiations have put the general assembly, representing the interests of creators, back at the heart of the system of redistribution of rights, although more could have been done. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. finally, i welcome the fact that the deadline for allocating rights has been extended to nine months, as opposed to the three months initially proposed by the greens, the liberals and the european right.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to facilitate the management of copyright for online musical works. it lays down the requirements necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the management of copyright and related rights by collective management organisations, which are used by rightholders. these organisations are better able to exercise effective control over the use of these works in internationalised markets. however, it is particularly important to increase the transparency of these collective societies so that rightholders can have all the necessary information, in particular concerning the amounts derived from the exploitation of their works.
in writing. improving the current governance of collective management societies is essential for the greatest benefit of their rightholders, the creators, as well as consumers. that is why i voted in favour of this directive, to stimulate the creation of online music services for consumers and to ensure better protection and prompt payment of copyright. the text will make it easier for service providers to obtain licences from collective management organisations operating at european level. collective management companies which do not provide licences covering more than one country will be able to ask another body to represent their repertoire, to the benefit of the development of greater cultural diversity. finally, collecting societies will have to ensure that artists receive adequate and timely remuneration for the use of their rights. these are all measures which go in the right direction, namely the protection of europe's cultural heritage, and which will facilitate consumers' access to a wider repertoire of cultural works.
in writing. on 4 february, the european parliament adopted a proposal for a directive which is a step in the right direction for copyright. this directive addresses the collective management of copyright in musical works for online use in the internal market. it is partly in response to longstanding demands by authors/composers for neighbouring rights and for the recognition of collective societies in europe (in particular to guarantee their rights throughout the territory), while respecting national legislation. i voted for this report but i remain vigilant because the commission directive recognizes the role of the companies to be included as such in the management of the cooperative societies. even if this is limited to a reality in some states, with no consequences for others, it is important to remain vigilant about this phenomenon. in france, collective societies, such as sacem, are run by authors/composers to enforce their rights and not, if companies are involved, to make a profit.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marielle gallo, which aims to make multi-territorial licensing of copyright in musical works more transparent and easier. collective management companies managing musical works will be subject to greater control by their general assembly and will have obligations regarding the distribution of revenues and information to be provided and will have to reinvest non-redistributable money in sectors defined by the member states (culture, social, education). the report was supported by 640 votes in favour, 18 against and 22 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. as regards the european digital market, we voted by a very large majority on the directive on the collective management of copyright and licences for online music. on a subject which is usually extremely sensitive, our rapporteur, mr marielle gallo, has this time managed to bring together a very wide range of people, from the swedish pirate party to the british conservatives! the directive has two main objectives: firstly, to create a single digital market for music, and secondly, to improve the functioning of collective management societies for copyright, which guarantee cultural diversity, such as sacem, which welcomes this new legislative tool at european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which will improve governance and allow for greater transparency in the management of collective management organisations. it is also a step forward for the free movement of services, as licensing of musical works at european level will be facilitated and transaction costs for users can be reduced. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the text concerns the collection and distribution companies (sprd). the aim is to define the governance model and to allow artists to join the sprd of their choice. if a regulation of these companies that operates in an opaque way is a good thing, the direction taken is not the right one. the opening up to european and international competition will lead to the elimination of small sprds for the benefit of large groups in a market that will be simplified for the consumer, but where artistic uniformity will be the rule. finally, no effort is made to allow artists to choose other modes of distribution, such as creative commons, and the only model considered is one based on scarcity, without taking into account the digital aspects where there is abundance (a digital copy has almost zero marginal cost). all alternative models, such as crowdfunding, are completely ignored. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive on collective management of copyright. the text will improve the governance and transparency of collective management organisations such as sacem in france and create a genuine digital single market for musical works. these new rules will allow for better collection of royalties and safer and faster remuneration of artists. finally, they will facilitate the granting of european licences for music on the internet, in order to create european champions of online music, such as deezer and spotify.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text which recognises the need to maintain copyright in the internet age. the debate was often passionate and ideological, but this time it was very constructive. i want the final directive, which was adopted by all the groups, to be proof of that. the new european legislation will make it possible to increase the transparency of collective management organisations. while artists have been criticised for being too opaque, they will now have to be better informed and given more control over their rights. in particular, they will be paid more quickly and will have control over the money coming from the exploitation of the works, which was not the case before. the text also lays the foundations for a digital single market by facilitating the licensing of music on the internet. the aim is to achieve legal download platforms offering music content across europe and not just from one member state! it is now up to us to create an 'itunes' in the european way, a kind of one-stop shop for legal, simple, secure downloading and which pays artists fairly for their creations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which obliges member states to provide for minimum rules and criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation. insider trading and market manipulation will be subject to criminal sanctions when committed intentionally. incitement and complicity will be dealt with in the same way. the european parliament had to send a clear message in the face of the many financial scandals.
in writing. i voted for the mccarthy report on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation. the penalties for manipulating will be more severe. this is a good sign for citizens who expect more justice and control in the activities of certain banks.
in writing. i support the application of minimum rules for criminal sanctions applicable to insider dealing and market manipulation. these most serious forms of market abuse must be punished by sanctions which are proportionate but have a real deterrent effect. only by such harmonisation can the european union ensure the integrity of its financial markets and the confidence of investors. it seems to me therefore normal that complicity or attempted market abuse should also be punished.
in writing. cases of insider dealing and market manipulation are currently not punished in the same way in europe, with some of the most serious financial crimes being punished by simple administrative sanctions with little deterrent effect. it is therefore in order to harmonize these very different practices in europe in the criminal field that i supported the report by my colleague mr mccarthy, so that in the future those responsible for a financial crisis who allegedly enriched themselves by manipulating the markets could be severely punished with a minimum sentence of four years in prison, with the member states free to propose even more severe penalties. these harmonised minimum rules will prevent financial crime offenders from exploiting the differences in regimes across the union and will make banks and financial institutions criminally liable, so that market abuse and its consequences will be taken more seriously. this text adopted at european level therefore brings a certain added value for our citizens.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague arlene mccarthy, which establishes a minimum level of criminal sanction for those guilty in the european union of insider trading or financial market manipulation. if the offenses were committed intentionally, they will be treated and punished as crimes, as will incitement or assistance by third parties. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this important report on financial markets, as it will require member states to establish minimum criminal sanctions to punish serious abuses linked to insider dealing and market manipulation. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. this report amends and adopts a directive which aims to harmonise penalties against 'market abuse'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the report postulates that financial markets are favourable to growth. nowhere is there any question of how these markets finance the real economy. no sanctions are envisaged against investors who destroy productions by speculating. in short, this text attacks the marginal symptoms (insider crimes) without addressing the causes of speculation. however, radical and concrete solutions could be adopted to cure the economy of this financial cancer: prohibition of over-the-counter markets and short selling, end of continuous stock exchange listing, taxation and voting rights differentiated according to the duration of investments, etc. instead, it is a text that is intent on promoting the anglo-saxon financial model and is not intended to challenge the previous stages of financial liberalisation orchestrated by the european union. i vote against it.
in writing. - one of the causes of the current instability of the financial system is the misuse of inside information and deliberate market manipulation. if a small number of bankers have been able to exploit their own dishonest information to make lucrative deals, the financial crisis has shown how much the eu member states have paid for banks' willingness to take excessive and unjustified risks for profit. i voted in favour of the resolution on criminal sanctions applicable to cases where information which is not available to the general public is used for personal gain. an example of such an action might be a situation where shares in a company are bought on the basis of information known only to the company itself about the attempts of another company to buy it. when such information is released, the company's stock usually rises sharply, and those who previously bought it dishonestly reap large profits. in future, member states will have to impose a minimum of four years' imprisonment for the most serious market manipulation offences and a minimum of two years' imprisonment for disclosure of classified information to a market participant.
in writing. i abstained on the directive on criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation. the text was intended to amend a first directive adopted in 2003 which established a general framework for the fight against financial crime. needless to say, it has not achieved its objectives. the aim was therefore to strengthen the sanctions systems of the member states and to tighten up those which were not sufficiently dissuasive. but sanctions that only affect individuals cannot be sufficient to solve financial market abuse. to be at least as effective as possible, the fight against financial crime must involve sanctions against the institutions involved in such activities, and these sanctions must be such as to lead to the closure of the establishments concerned. furthermore, is it worth saying that the logic of 'improving the efficiency of financial markets', 'guaranteeing the integrity of financial markets' and strengthening 'the protection of investors and their confidence in these markets' is at least completely foreign to me since it turns its back on the reality of the problems which are nothing other than economic deregulation and the excessive financialisation of the economy?
in writing. the european union is gradually developing a european energy policy and a single market in this sector, in particular to bring down energy prices and to combat energy dependence on certain neighbours. to achieve these objectives, the european union must develop a cross-border energy network. since the european commission provides some coordination of these projects, it is essential that it has adequate and up-to-date information on the development of these projects. that is why i voted for this report, which will help to disseminate information.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which establishes a common framework for the communication to the commission (every two years) of data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the oil, natural gas and electricity sectors, as well as on investment projects concerning the production of biofuels and the capture, transport and storage of carbon dioxide produced by these sectors. the commission will aim to carry out a regular analysis of the evolution of the energy system in order to correct imbalances. this text will replace the current council regulation of 2010, which was annulled by a judgment of the court of justice of the european union, following a challenge to the legal basis by the european parliament.
in writing. this text establishes a harmonised framework for the communication to the european commission of information on investment projects in energy infrastructure. the previous text on this subject had been annulled by the court of justice of the european union. parliament is therefore rightly making the necessary legislative adjustments to implement it. the communication of information on investment projects in energy infrastructure is essential for the commission to establish an effective strategy in this field. that is why i voted in favour of the amendments which call for maximum disclosure of these investments.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to take account of the judgment of the court of justice concerning the annulment of the euratom regulation. the member states will therefore have to provide the commission every two years with data and information on investment projects concerning the production, storage and transport of oil and natural gas. i welcome this further evidence of energy transparency.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this regulation which establishes a common framework for the communication to the commission, every two years, of data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in all sectors (oil, natural gas, electricity) and on investment projects concerning the production of biofuels and the capture, transport and storage of carbon dioxide produced by these sectors. the transmission of these data will enable the commission to carry out a regular analysis of the evolution of the european energy system in order to correct any imbalances.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague adina-ioana valean, which establishes a common framework for the communication to the european commission of data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the oil, gas and electricity sectors, as well as on investment projects in the production of biofuels and the capture, transport and storage of co2 produced by these sectors. on the basis of this data, the commission will carry out a regular analysis of the evolution of the energy system with a view to correcting imbalances in it. i welcome the adoption of this report by a large majority.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on investment projects in energy infrastructure, which provides for member states to inform the european commission every two years of their investment projects in energy infrastructure such as oil, gas, electricity and biofuels. this information is essential for the development of eu energy policy.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to replace another euratom regulation (no 617/2010), the practical purpose of which is to oblige companies and energy sector players to provide the commission services in brussels with information on their energy investment projects. this text is clearly the product of the ideological apparatus of the european union. in terms of energy policy, it is leading europe into its own delusions. in terms of the union's authoritarian tendencies, this text is a caricature. i vote against it.
in writing. interinstitutional dialogue is essential to ensure the effectiveness of the european institutions. in addition, european legislation must constantly be adapted to the evolution of the union itself and be in line with the european legal framework. it is important that parliament and the council establish a common framework for communicating to the commission information on investment projects in certain energy infrastructure in the union, such as in the oil, gas or electricity sectors. investment in these sectors is indeed crucial for the european economy. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report as it stands.
in writing. my colleague klaus-heiner lehne has the experience, competence and independence of mind required to be a member of the court of auditors of the european union, and i voted in favour of his candidacy in support of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposed appointment of klaus heiner lehne as a member of the court of auditors
in writing. i have given my approval to the appointment of mr klaus-heiner lehne as a member of the executive board of the court of auditors. i agree with the decision of the committee on budgetary control, which considered that he had the necessary qualifications to participate in the management of the union's finances. i welcome the binding nature of parliament's approval of the appointment of the members of the court of auditors. it is essential that the court's officials win the confidence of the european citizens through their representative body, the european parliament.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague inès ayala sender on the appointment of mr klaus-heiner lehne as a member of the court of auditors. the text was adopted by 457 votes to 169, with 55 abstentions. i'm very pleased with this adoption.
in writing. mr lehne is a member of the european parliament for the epp. in his home country, germany, he is a member of the cdu, led by mrs merkel. following the appointment of ms lautenschläger to the ecb's executive board last month, the appointment of mr lehne to the court of auditors would be a further step in the 'merkelization' of the european institutions. we know mrs merkel's policy, which is based on fiscal orthodoxy and the restoration of sound public accounts. it is she who is leading europe to disaster in order to serve germany's interests. i am categorically opposed to this appointment and i am voting against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it represents a good assessment of the current and future role of the court of auditors of the european union and sets the right priorities for this institution which is essential to the proper functioning of the european system.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the future role of the court of auditors and the procedure for appointing its members. this report has been profoundly amended by the group of the european people's party in relation to the socialist project. it stated that the court's choice of wording for the statement of assurance does not facilitate the european parliament's assessment of the commission's implementation of the budget and recommended that the court, while maintaining its independence, base its opinions on the significance threshold and not simply on the tolerable error rate, which is more in line with international auditing standards. parliament called for closer cooperation between the court and the national audit institutions of the member states and proposed that the possibility be examined of the latter, as external and independent entities and in accordance with international audit standards, issuing national audit certificates on the management of union funds to the governments of the member states for production in the discharge procedure, in accordance with an appropriate interinstitutional procedure to be set up.
in writing. i voted for the report on the court of auditors on the future role of the court of auditors, which is important to enhance in order to control union expenditure and improve its efficiency.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which sets out proposals concerning the future role of the court of auditors and the procedure for appointing its members. the proposal to give the european parliament a greater role in the appointment of the members of the court of auditors seems to me necessary in particular to consolidate the democratic legitimacy of this body.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague inès ayala sender on the future role of the court of auditors and the procedure for appointing its members. this report proposes a new procedure for appointing the members of the court of auditors, based on consultation of the european parliament on the basis of strictly defined criteria, in order to guarantee the democratic legitimacy, transparency and full independence of these members. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. the aim of this report is to clarify and frame the court of auditors' tasks with a view to transparency. the commission is proposing to strengthen parliament's powers in this area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. i vote for it.
in writing. meps must constantly bear in mind the need to adopt protective standards where necessary, but also to reduce the rules and legal provisions applicable where these are no longer useful. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the adequacy, subsidiarity and proportionality of eu regulation which will make better lawmaking possible.
in writing. this text emphasises the role of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality as the cornerstone of european law. it seems to me quite right to say this at a time when the european union is tending, all too often wrongly, to become increasingly active in areas which fall within the competence of the states. the division of powers between the national and supranational levels needs to be more clearly defined and respected. moreover, closer involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process is an effective means of better lawmaking in europe.
in writing. i voted against this report because i believe it is a serious threat to social dialogue and is simply aimed at calling into question a whole part of our social acquis. while european legislation should be simpler and more effective, any initiative to this end should respect the social acquis and the autonomy of the social partners. information and consultation of workers, as well as consumer rights and environmental concerns, should not suffer from this type of reform.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sajjad karim on the presentation of the 19th better regulation report covering the year 2011, on the adequacy and application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality of eu regulation. this report calls for a renegotiation of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement to take account of the new legislative environment created by the lisbon treaty, to build on existing good practice and to update the agreement in line with the better regulation agenda. the report was adopted with 413 votes in favour, 252 against and 12 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which sets out the priorities for improving european legislation, i.e. simplifying eu law, reducing administrative burdens and ensuring that european policy-making is based on concrete evidence. an important example already implemented is the principle of 'thinking first of smes' when drafting european legislative acts.
in writing. once again, the cynicism of european leaders leads them to pervert the democratic question. the authors invoke the objective of 'better legislation' without even considering the consent of the peoples to whom the legislation is addressed. they refer to the new legislative environment created by the treaty of lisbon , ratified against the negative votes of the french, dutch and irish peoples. difficult to legislate better when you have no democratic legitimacy to legislate at all. those who claim this should first consult the peoples of europe to see if they are willing to entrust them with legislative power! the real aim of the authors of the proposal is to increase the damage caused by liberal ideology throughout europe: all that is being said is 'lower charges', 'reduction of the cost of regulation', 'exemptions from regulation' - all the usual liberal catechism! worse still, the authors of the motion for a resolution are even calling for a 'status of the european private company', a direct attack on national labour law legislation! i vote against it.
in writing. european legislation is evolving day by day. in this context, it is important to ensure that the institutions' behaviour is as consistent as possible in order to adapt them to this new legislative environment. i am very glad that i voted in favour of this report. the first victims of overburdened legislation and overburdened bureaucracy are none other than smes. but it is these very enterprises that will most certainly enable us to emerge from the crisis in which the european union has been plunged for far too long. making it easier for them is a first step towards much needed economic recovery. the european union's primary task is to serve its citizens by providing them with a clear legal framework adapted to their needs.
mr president, nothing is lacking in the scandalous text which was adopted almost without debate following mrs lunacek's report. under the guise of non-discrimination, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 establish male homosexuality, lesbianism, bisexuality, transsexuality, etc. as new values for europe. paragraph 4 sets out the steps of a totalitarian process to this end: mobilisation of all agencies paid by european taxpayers, propaganda to young people in education in point d (i) , imposition of same-sex marriage on all member states article h (iv) , freedom to promote homosexuality, gay pride and others in point i , criminalisation of any criticism rebranded as "hate speech" in point h , right of political asylum granted to non-european lgbti people in point k. this text, which was tabled jointly by the left and the christian democrats, is a sign of their active contribution to the decline of europe.
in writing. i believe that it is essential to combat all homophobic behaviour and discrimination based on sexual orientation. a roadmap against homophobia can thus be justified. however, it should not affect family law or education, which are matters for the sovereignty of the member states. for all these reasons, i voted against this lunacek report, which clearly went too far.
in writing. i voted against this resolution, which is one of too many resolutions on the subject put on the table by the european left. it is important to remember that there is still a lot of discrimination against lgbti people and i have always condemned it, particularly in previous resolutions. however, the case of this lunacek resolution, in line with the previous estrela resolution, is, in legal terms, clumsy. when parliament, in this resolution, asks a member state to recognise civil acts such as same-sex marriage contracted in another member state, even though it does not recognise it in its own legislation, it is overstepping its prerogatives. when parliament interferes with the sexual education of children through all-inclusive proposals, mixing education, gender, discrimination, it also exceeds its prerogatives. that is why i rejected this resolution, which has no binding force, not because of ideology, but because i believe that it is the member states who must decide on their own culture, their own family system, etc., and particularly on education. if parliament interferes in this, it will always have the rejection of the people and unresolved debates.
in writing. i voted against the lunacek report. i believe that the recommendations made in this report go beyond the powers of the european institutions. i therefore took the view that the principle of subsidiarity should be strictly respected and i voted in favour of the alternative resolution calling on the member states of the union to combat all forms of discrimination.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has adopted by a large majority the roadmap against homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender, despite opposition from the ump. the main aim of this report is to enforce the existing anti-discrimination provisions (based on article 10 of the feu treaty) by asking the european commission to come up with an ambitious action plan. it refers to the responsibilities of each individual in the fight against discrimination, taking full account of the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. the fight against all forms of discrimination has always been at the heart of my various commitments, including my political commitment. but the defense of the family and freedom of conscience also. i voted against the lunacek report. as a supporter of the fight against homophobia, i have regretted that this text, by its lack of clear definitions and therefore by the ambiguities it contained, in particular on freedom of conscience or on the mutual recognition of civil status documents between the member states of the union, weakened the noble cause it was intended to defend. subsidiarity and the sovereignty of the states were not sufficiently respected in this text, despite a paragraph at the end of it which claimed the opposite. i am not opposed to a road map at european level, of course. i am in favour of this if it defends the fight against homophobia in a measured way, without threatening in particular freedom of conscience and subsidiarity. i believe that these policies are best implemented at national, regional or local level, as close as possible to the problems encountered and in accordance with the legal traditions of each member state.
in writing. this eu roadmap against homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity , proposed by ms lunacek, defines the individual on the basis of his sexual orientation and not his biological sex in order to confer on him special rights. however, the defence of rights and freedoms is not conditional on behaviour or orientation, and there is therefore no need to create specific rights for a category of the population. this report also aims to muzzle the divergent opinions to give voice only to self-proclaimed lgbti rights defenders and gender advocates. the principle of non-discrimination at european level is being misused, as is freedom of movement, two principles which are almost dogmatic in brussels and on which the lunacek report is based. it is high time to get rid of the ideological and normative invasion of the union. with the support of the europe of freedom and democracy group, i tabled an alternative resolution to remove references to gender identity and to recall that the defence of the fundamental rights of the human person must not be sectoral or community-based .
in writing. i voted for this report, of course. the massive shielding of european ultraconservatives against this text, based on false arguments, is incomprehensible. article 10 of the lisbon treaty states that the european union is obliged to combat discrimination in the definition and implementation of its actions. however, according to a study by the european agency for fundamental rights, 47% of homosexuals in europe say they are victims of discrimination or harassment. therefore, and following the example of the european strategies for gender equality, disability and anti-discrimination against roma, this report calls on the european commission to develop a roadmap to combat homophobia. ulrike lunacek, the austrian environmental rapporteur for the text, worked closely with the other political groups and put forward a text with a broad consensus for the vote. as a member of the lgbt intergroup, i took a stand and spoke in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted against the lunacek resolution and in favour of an alternative motion because, while the fundamental rights of all citizens must be respected, i would also like to stress the need to respect the principle of subsidiarity. it considers that family and education issues are not a matter for the european union but for the member states. all forms of discrimination are of course reprehensible and must be firmly combated. however, i reject the communitarian and ideological approach to this report, which would lead to the emphasis being placed on a particular community or category of citizens. in the face of the attacks and stigmatisation of those who advocate a protective family policy, i would like to reiterate my attachment to family values and the responsibility of parents in the education of their children. in the midst of the economic crisis, our citizens expect more from europe than the production of a chain of relations which are stigmatizing and non-binding.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which calls on the commission to draw up a roadmap against homophobia because i believe that we must put an end to the fear, isolation, harassment and discrimination which lgbti people are facing today in europe, most often with impunity. unfortunately, in our countries, we have to admit that the march towards equality is still very long and must continue because lgbti people are still too often the target of unacceptable stigmatization. suicide cases among lgbti youth are all signs that we need to act urgently to address this phenomenon. just as europe fights discrimination based on disability or ethnic origin, it is important that it also tackles discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender. while it is essential to tackle the economic and social challenges facing our continent, the role of the european parliament is also to conduct these debates in such a way as to build a european society that is faithful to the values of freedom and equality. it is high time that european texts were adapted to changing customs and promoted the universality of rights.
in writing. the economic crisis is a breeding ground for a retreat in identity and a crisis of values. history has provided us with a shocking testimony. the last few weeks have shown us how attempts to deconstruct the bedrock of values that make up a nation can exacerbate tensions. i therefore call for an urgent and necessary withdrawal. my rejection of the report on homophobia should not be seen as a denial of such discrimination. on the contrary, they exist and must be combated. however, i am convinced that this report, far from soothing the conscience, is only inciting anger and pits individuals against each other. i do not believe that individuals should be categorised according to their sexual orientation and that an identity should be reduced to that criterion alone. a peaceful debate must take place. it must not, however, be a matter of opposing one set of values to another, of destroying family values and family policy in order to impose a caricatured social pattern by force. the european parliament must continue to protect the rights of all but must never offend some to favour others.
in writing. the report on a roadmap against homophobia and discrimination was the subject of a crude disinformation campaign by the 'manifesto for all' organisations. what does this report say? a reaffirmation of the will to combat discrimination and to guarantee equal access for all to employment, health, education, goods and services, free movement, freedom of expression and assembly... the fight against discrimination is the "trade union minimum" in terms of equal rights. nothing very controversial or new (at european level, these rights are already guaranteed by the treaties (article 10 tfeu) and by the charter of fundamental rights). but today, for some movements, the mere words "homosexual" and "gender" are enough to stir up hatred and occupy the public debate, distracting attention from the real problems of society. criticism of the fight against discrimination, whatever its origin, is to call into question the very principle of equality. we are born free and equal in rights. if we have to fight this fight in 2014, we will fight it, and today and tomorrow, lies and hatred will not win.
in writing. i voted against the alternative resolution proposed by the epp to replace the own-initiative report by my colleague ulrike lunacek on the european roadmap against homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. while the proposal improved the original text, it left ambiguous legal provisions, such as the principle of mutual recognition of the effects of civil status documents between member states or the mutual recognition of registered partnerships or marriage for same-sex couples. i can only regret that the noble objective which justified this report, namely the fight against homophobia and any other discrimination based on sexual orientation, has been diverted for partisan purposes in an attempt to open the way to a questioning of policies which are exclusively within national competence. although not binding, this text could be used to influence national debates that have nothing to do with the fight against homophobia. the alternative resolution was adopted by 394 votes to 176, with 72 abstentions. i'm sorry about that.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will help to strengthen the fight against discrimination which still affects lgbt people in large numbers across europe. with the vote on this resolution, we ask that the european union finally adopt an action plan to combat homophobia and transphobia, in the same way as it already fights discrimination on grounds of sex, disability or ethnic origin, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, as provided for in paragraph 5. i also want to support this report because a retrograde wave is currently blowing across europe to challenge the fundamental rights acquired by both women and lgbt people, by organising intensive disinformation campaigns. it is essential to be mobilised and not to give in to this rise in conservatism and extremism across europe.
in writing. i voted against this text, as did almost all my colleagues from the ump in parliament. the reason for this choice was that, in this text, under the guise of combating discriminatory behaviour which still occurs today in the european union and which is unacceptable, the rapporteur wished to introduce provisions which trample on the sovereignty of states in areas of civil law which are absolutely not within the competence of the eu. i voted in favour of an 'alternative resolution', which unfortunately was not approved by the full house, calling for all eu citizens to be able to enjoy their fundamental rights fully, including the right not to be discriminated against.
in writing. i strongly condemn any discrimination, including on grounds of sexual orientation. article 10 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the union shall endeavour to combat all forms of discrimination in its policies. however, i cannot support the request that a member state recognise civil acts, such as same-sex marriage, entered into in another member state, even though it does not recognise them in its own legislation. the issue of same-sex marriage is a sensitive subject which must be left to the discretion of each member state, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. i cannot support the promotion of any kind of sex education in the european commission's programmes for young people. the issue of sex education must be approached with great vigilance and above all the central role of the family must be recognised.
in writing. given the reactionary climate, this text is welcome. it gives a fairly comprehensive overview of all areas of homophobic and transphobic discrimination, and represents a breakthrough for many european countries. however, it is regrettable that there is no mention of equal access to ldc for lesbian couples. finally, although the report is mainly concerned with negative rights to non-discrimination, it places the fight against homophobia and transphobia in a universalist framework. i vote for it.
in writing. the european union is committed to combating all forms of discrimination in its policies. this is a fundamental principle which must be safeguarded at all costs. it is absolutely unacceptable that many people are discriminated against in the member states of the union because of their sexual orientation. however, each member state is able, under the principle of subsidiarity, to create its own legislation to remedy this problem. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not undermined by the council's decision. i voted against this report because it supports ideas on family law, such as the european promotion of sex education, and this right is a matter for the member states. it is not incompatible to protect european citizens from discrimination and to safeguard the sovereignty of the member states in certain matters.
in writing. in order to promote a republican approach to the issue, there is an important balance to be struck between the defence of the family and the various forms of discrimination based on sex, sexual orientation and gender identity. all homophobic behaviour and discrimination must be firmly condemned, but we must not forget the traditional family model which is one of the pillars of our society. the lunacek report does not in any way correspond to our view of this balance. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted against the joint resolution which took up the main elements of the lunacek report and called for the development of a 'roadmap against homophobia and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity'. while i strongly condemn any discrimination based on sexual orientation, i did not wish to support this report, some of the passages of which were outside the competence of the european union. the text required each member state to recognise civil acts concluded in another member state, even if they were not recognised in its own territory. civil status and family law are sensitive subjects which fall within the sphere of national sovereignty.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the fight against homophobia because discrimination against lgbt people (lesbian, gay, bi and transgender) is still very much present in the european union. according to a recent study by the human rights agency, one in two lgbt people have been discriminated against or harassed and one in four have been physically assaulted because of their sexual orientation. this report calls for a new eu action plan to combat homophobia, in the same way that the eu already fights discrimination based on sex, disability or ethnic origin. it also respects the principle of subsidiarity on family law and does not require member states to adopt legislation on registered partnerships, marriage or adoption. these decisions are the responsibility of the member states' authorities and there is obviously no question of the european union interfering in this area!
in writing. i voted in favour of the lunacek report. this report has been the subject of a vast campaign of disinformation from the most reactionary fringes of our societies. this text is an opportunity to reaffirm our opposition to all forms of discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people in europe and around the world, whether in the field of employment, education, health, access to goods and services or freedom of movement and expression. we cannot tolerate crimes and hate speech against our fellow citizens. this is a non-binding own-initiative report which recommends that member states coordinate their policies to combat discrimination against lgbti people. it reminds us that the road to equality is still long and that all member states must make progress along this path. i deeply regret that the ump voted against this text. it is a very bad signal in view of the current situation in some member states and the international situation, and it is also a further blow to the values of respect and equality which weakens the wall between the republican right and the extreme right.
in writing. the european union must lead by example on lgbti rights: this is the signal that the european parliament has sent today by adopting this roadmap against homophobia and discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. we need to do more to eliminate discrimination against lgbti people in europe: just as the european union is fighting discrimination based on disability or ethnic origin, it is important that it also tackles discrimination based on sexual orientation, and this is the main thrust of this report. lgbti people are still too often discriminated against in the labour market, in schools and in the health sector. the report calls for existing laws against discrimination and violence to be systematically applied throughout the union in order to ensure freedom of movement without any unrest. i regret that too many members have succumbed to the pressure of the fallacious arguments of conservative lobbies.
in writing. i deplore the very principle of this vote, which gives easy angles of attack to europe's opponents to make citizens believe that the european union is no longer useful. i have always fought against discrimination based on sexual orientation, as the european charter of human rights proclaims. my negative vote is therefore not an objection to those who want to fight these practices of another age, but a warning to make it clear that if the eu continues to want to take care of everything, it will end up taking care of nothing! it is high time that the role of each individual was redefined and that it was made clear that social issues such as family policy and sex education are the responsibility of the states alone. what message are we sending when we spend hours debating a hypothetical roadmap, while europeans expect us to provide solutions to the consequences of the crisis, to increasingly porous borders and to an environment threatened by climate change? we expect europe to deliver concrete results and not to be the scene of a clash over cultural values.
in writing. this report calls for better enforcement of the rules applicable to protect citizens against unfair commercial practices, which are a scourge and a real danger to citizens. the european union must therefore act to reduce this risk, including by taking into account new developments on the internet. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the application of the unfair commercial practices directive to promote cross-border trade and consumer confidence by combating misleading advertising and unfair practices in business-to-consumer ('b2c') relationships across all sectors and by ensuring that consumers are properly informed to make informed choices.
in writing. i voted in favour of the rochefort report for an amendment to the directive on unfair business practices. the new challenges facing the union, due to the development of new technologies, require improvements to this directive. i am in favour of effective and genuinely dissuasive sanctions for companies that engage in this kind of practice.
in writing. this text rightly begins an assessment of the application of legislation on unfair commercial practices in the member states. the importance of this legislation in ensuring consumer protection and consumer confidence in the internal market is underlined. if this legislation appears to be adequate, improvements in its implementation are nevertheless possible. more effective and dissuasive sanctions to prevent unfair trading practices should indeed be encouraged within member states. the penalties imposed for non-compliance with eu law should therefore never be less than the benefit derived from a practice considered unfair or misleading.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to combat misleading advertising and other unfair practices affecting consumers. the european parliament recalls that consumers continue to be victims of many misleading practices, for example on websites selling airline tickets. for example, there is a surcharge applied to credit and debit cards when booking online. in addition, there are many complaints from users of online ticketing sites who have been victims of what is commonly known as 'ip tracking', a practice which aims to keep track of the number of connections a user has made via the same ip address and then artificially raise the prices of a property based on the interest shown by several similar searches. the european commission must urgently investigate the frequency of this practice, which creates unfair competition and constitutes a misuse of users' personal data. the report also calls on the member states to redouble their efforts in this respect and stresses the need for closer cooperation between national authorities within the framework of the consumer protection cooperation network.
in writing. in line with its commitment to consumers, parliament approved the report on the fight against unfair commercial practices in the european union. the legislation came into force in 2005, but the deadlines for transposition in the member states were not always met, so the european commission could only make a first assessment of its effectiveness in 2013. the aim is to promote cross-border trade and to encourage consumer confidence by combating misleading advertising and unfair practices in business-to-consumer relations and ensuring that consumers are properly informed. the legislation applies to unfair commercial practices from the stage of advertising and marketing, but also during and after the commercial transaction. although some shortcomings were noted, i am pleased that, overall, this first inventory was conclusive. the aim now is to better control 'hidden' advertising practices on the internet, which are very concretely characterised by the manipulation of professionals posing as consumers on forums and social networks, and to ensure effective, fast and inexpensive redress for deceived consumers.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague robert rochefort on the implementation of the unfair commercial practices directive (2005/29/ec). the report stresses the need for full application and proper implementation of the directive by the member states. it also called for the strengthening of surveillance operations, the imposition of appropriate sanctions against companies and the regular updating of the european commission's guidelines. the hidden advertising on the internet is also taken into account, as is the need to strengthen the application of the directive to vulnerable consumers, to emphasise the importance for consumers of effective, fast and inexpensive redress and to adopt a cross-cutting framework for class actions. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of an own-initiative report on the application of the misleading commercial practices directive, which recalls the urgency of implementing all its measures to protect consumers from certain unscrupulous or even completely fraudulent sellers and traders. parliament stressed in particular the new fraudulent practices on the internet, but also the issues related to false declarations about the environmental quality of products.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the application of the unfair commercial practices directive. progress is possible in the application of this directive adopted in 2005, which had to be transposed from 2007. it is therefore necessary that appropriate penalties are applied to undertakings, as provided for in the directive, where consumers are misled or exposed to aggressive marketing.
in writing. this report, which has no legal standing, commends the european commission for its implementation of the 2005 directive on the fight against unfair and deceptive trading practices. for the future, the text expresses moving intentions that range from pious wishes ("to make businesses aware of consumer rights") to charitable incantations ("to take better account of vulnerable people"). it is entirely consistent with the logic of intensifying trade and publicity. it therefore pays no attention to relocating production and encouraging short supply chains, which are fundamental levers for integrating the ecological imperative into trade that today has no boundaries. taxation and reduction of advertising are also not part of the recommendations of this report, which is part of the pure productivist and consumerist logic of the current european union. the report will therefore bring no real improvement to consumers, workers and citizens. i vote against it.
in writing. directive 2005/29/ec aims to protect consumers from unfair business practices and to increase consumer confidence in transactions in the internal market, while ensuring greater legal certainty for businesses. the provisions of the current directive are satisfactory and no major revision was necessary, but it is essential that member states implement it fully and apply it correctly. however, even if member states implement the directive fully and correctly, full compliance by businesses will only be more effective if prevention is strengthened and if they clearly see the prospect of being sanctioned in the event of infringement. i voted in favour of this report because i found in it these broad lines which i believe are essential.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to establish a benchmark for the judiciary and to contribute to the development of national judicial systems by enhancing their quality, efficiency and independence. it deals only with civil and commercial matters, since these are closely linked to the economy. it collects data from member states and evaluates it to help member states improve their justice systems.
in writing. i voted for the report on the eu justice scoreboard which is an important report for european justice.
in writing. this comparative table provides reliable data on the judicial systems of the member states of the european union. this will in particular enable exchanges of good practice between member states for a more independent and efficient judiciary. the achievement of this objective will strengthen the confidence of european citizens in their judicial system. it is rightly emphasised that an efficient and trustworthy judicial system encourages businesses to develop and invest at national and international levels. legal certainty is therefore inseparable from the recovery of competitiveness and employment in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which takes stock of the european judicial systems for the year 2013. on the basis of these conclusions, several options are preferred for the coming year, starting with reducing the length of procedures, in order to improve the operating environment for companies and thus make it more attractive to investors. in addition, ongoing training of judges is essential as national legislation is changing rapidly as a result of european legislation. all these measures are part of a genuine european judicial area, which i can only encourage.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr tadeusz zwiefka, on the scoreboard of justice in the european union civil and administrative justice in the member states. the objective of the scoreboard published by the commission is to enhance the quality, efficiency and independence of national judicial systems. the report calls on the commission to repeat the initiative in accordance with the treaties, in consultation with the member states and taking into account their structural characteristics and different social traditions when defining points of comparison between national judicial systems. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which follows the publication by the european commission of a justice scoreboard, a non-binding comparison tool for assessing the effectiveness of national justice systems in the areas of civil, commercial and administrative justice. this tool is important for enhancing the quality of national justice systems and contributing to improving the business and investment climate within the eu.
in writing. this report supports the european commission's proposal to create a reliable tool for comparing national legal systems. it aggregates quantitative as well as qualitative statistical data to enable better assessment of each country's improvements and setbacks. the aim is not to rank but to understand each other's systems. a better understanding of complex crossborder cases, in particular, would be very useful for many of our citizens who are increasingly faced with them. however, some of the rapporteur's main points are very vague and indicate a view with which i totally disagree. thus, legal systems should contribute to economic growth and stimulate competitiveness . the introduction of liberal mantras spoils this report which should have remained scientific in nature. i'll hold off.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which welcomes the paradigm shift in the way regions produce and consume energy. it also highlights the opportunities that geographical (or territorial) changes bring to the energy network of disadvantaged regions and invites member states and regions to invest in local smart grids through the european structural and investment funds. the deployment of smart grids requires a stable long-term policy framework and this is the call of this report.
in writing. i voted for the schroedter report on the local and regional consequences of the development of smart grids. our regions need coordination in this area.
in writing. by inviting member states and local and regional authorities to invest in smart grids, the text aims to move towards greater flexibility in energy consumption. by voting for this text, we wanted to help avoid approximation of charges by optimising energy consumption by responding in a targeted way to the energy demand of european consumers. finally, this text will not only make it possible to favour more sustainable consumption but also to opt for decentralised local production.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution on the implementation of smart electricity grids. these networks are tools that ensure better coordination between energy production and consumption systems in order to optimise costs. the modernisation of the electricity grid has become essential for the distribution of energy from renewable sources. these technologies are therefore a major asset in meeting today's energy challenges. they also represent an undeniable potential for growth and innovation for all the countries of the union. i welcome the fact that my amendment on raising awareness among users to become producers-consumers aware of the possibilities offered by these networks has been adopted in the final text.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague elisabeth schroedter on the local and regional consequences of the implementation of smart grids. the report welcomes the change in energy production and consumption patterns in the regions and calls on member states to invest in local smart grids to meet future energy needs. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 571 votes in favour, 87 against and 22 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. smart grids are based on decentralised energy production and consumption models and enable a stable and secure energy supply. the report before us proposes to strengthen these mechanisms. it is regrettable that these good intentions are reflected in an increased use of individual consumer responsibility, whereas the objectives pursued (reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, stable supply, etc.) are collective. moreover, the apology for public-private partnerships prevents me from supporting this text. the naivete of green capitalists is affecting ecological progress. for these reasons, i vote against.
in writing. the european economy needs local and regional energy initiatives to become increasingly self-sufficient in this area. for some time now, we have seen the creation of smart grids for renewable energy, which have the potential to create sustainable development and jobs. i voted in favour of this report as it stands. although environmental protection is very important, we should not be deceived into setting binding environmental standards that are not achievable for most member states. it is true that such developments as smart grids must be supported, but it must be borne in mind that the european energy sectors must move closer to these objectives without losing their competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world.
in writing. - the eu member states have few energy reserves of their own and therefore import more than half of their energy consumption (54.1% in 2010). so the price of energy that we pay every day depends on the situation in the world market or on the demand of the exporting country, and we have no other way to pay it. the only way to reduce costs at present is to reduce consumption and increase energy production within the eu. the eu is already implementing several successful pilot projects in which local communities and citizens have become productive consumers. this means that they produce energy for their own use by selling part of it to the grid or by receiving a discount for the additional electricity consumed using net accounting. the development of smart grids and virtual power stations, which provide for flexible supply and could store small amounts of electricity produced from renewable energy sources, is necessary to establish such a two-way system. the resolution stresses that the implementation of smart grids should draw on the resources of the european structural and investment funds by establishing partnerships with entrepreneurs at local, regional and national level. the network would help consumers to adapt their consumption to their needs, saving energy, improving energy efficiency, reducing peak hours, etc. this would reduce energy costs for businesses and increase consumer purchasing power. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i abstained on the very technical own-initiative report on the local and regional consequences of the development of so-called smart electricity grids. while i can only support a more sustainable approach to electricity consumption, this report has not gone in the right direction. it stresses competition and proposes to develop, as usual, public-private partnerships. he emphasises the role that regions could play in becoming electricity producers. this is not in itself a bad thing, but it may lead to a disengagement of the states, which is already well advanced, by liberalizing public network services. there are still considerable uncertainties about the use of 'smart meters' which are supposed to 'advise the user on his consumption'. the user must be assured that the personal data transmitted will be protected and must not be obliged to provide such data in exchange for services. finally, installation costs must not be passed on to the bill and the benefits in terms of consumption reduction must be real.
in writing. this own-initiative report provides a useful overview of the situation of small farms in the european union and the challenges they face. these small farms are necessary for the harmonious economic, social and territorial development of the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the future of small farms because they have not only a production function but also essential functions linked to the preservation of nature and landscapes, which are characteristic of the european rural world and of the biological diversity of rural life. i fully agree with the statement in this resolution that calls on 'the member states and the commission to take appropriate measures in the framework of the new common agricultural policy and to prepare guidelines for the period after 2020, taking better account of the specific needs of small family farms, which are an important part of the european agricultural model and the core of the multifunctional development of rural areas, as well as the sustainable development of regions in general'.
in writing. i voted for the report on small farms. it is aimed primarily at very small farms in the new member states from the eastern bloc. agriculture in these member states is still characterised by traditional structures and a large number of small farms. although they have been on the road to modernisation since the start of their accession process, profound differences remain. the cap reform introduced a flat-rate payment for small farms, to simplify their access to cap aid. the report welcomes the new system but considers that it does not fully address the problems facing these small farms. it therefore lists areas where the union must step up its action, in particular the fight against rural exodus and urban sprawl and the establishment of adequate financial engineering instruments.
in writing. the text calls for action to combat the depopulation of rural areas, where small farms are a real asset. the overall objective is to increase the competitiveness of these farms. this includes a proposal to mobilise the financial resources of the european funds and the necessary encouragement to support specialised production lines to enable job creation. finally, the text rightly encourages the creation of platforms for the exchange of good practice on the regulation and control of processing carried out on small farms.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to rebalance the weight of small farms in the common agricultural policy. it is therefore essential that the union's cohesion policy be used to help finance small farms in rural areas and thus enable them to overcome structural problems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it will help support the smallest farms, which play a key role in rural areas. first, it provides a clearer definition of small farms and calls for measures for small farms to be simplified and made more flexible under the common agricultural policy, in particular by facilitating access to certain aids. the text also stresses the role that the cohesion fund can play in helping to finance the infrastructure needed to set up small farms in the least populated areas. it has become urgent to tackle this problem in order to combat depopulation and rural exodus.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague czeslaw adam siekierski on the future of small farms. the report calls for better consideration of the needs of small farms in the new common agricultural policy, the preparation of post-2020 guidelines, the establishment of adequate financial engineering instruments and the fight against rural depopulation. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. this report proposes interesting ways of supporting small family farms and better taking account of their specific needs: increasing direct sales through the development of local infrastructure, mobilising 'special aid' for small farms which have opted for a cooperative structure or the sharing of agricultural equipment. he also criticised the 'insufficient' amount of aid provided for by the new cap for smallholders. it also called for the mobilisation of the european social fund and the cohesion fund and for more public subsidies to help rural development. but this report remains a prisoner of liberal europe. he calls for support for livestock but does not say a word about the abolition of milk quotas in 2015. he called for support for small farms but "without distorting competition" which is destroying them. he calls for more money for smallholders but does not criticise the reduction in the cap budget or the benefits of agribusiness. i'm not going to.
in writing. the european union introduced legislation to reform the common agricultural policy at the end of 2013. this is a major development which will ensure farmers a better future. however, it is clear that some definitions and guidelines are missing from this reform, particularly as regards small farms. i am glad that the report on this subject has been adopted. it is a good way of highlighting the particular case of small farms with profitability problems. these are usually small family farms, and there is no guarantee that they will be inherited. in the same way as we are promoting the rejuvenation of european farmers, we must support small farms to tackle the problem of rural exodus and agricultural development. the profitability of small farms must be ensured if an important element of the european agricultural model is to be maintained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on small farms. it is a list of good intentions with no legal value and could have been considerably improved. i supported the alternative motion for a resolution put forward by my portuguese colleague, mr joao ferreira, a member of the gue/ngl, which went in this direction. the viability and profitability of small farms must be strengthened. taking account of the agricultural characteristics of the country concerned, regional variations, encouraging the creation of cooperatives or increasing the direct sale of traditional products on local and regional markets are all measures which would reduce the pressure on small farms by giving them economic opportunities in the face of current distribution channels. in view of the guidelines of the failed cap reform, small farms must be supported and their strategic value recognised within the european agricultural model, as they are one of the pillars of rural development. it is not, however, the budgetary choices that have been made, except in a marginal way, and it is regrettable that this text is only a paved road of good intentions, the usefulness of which need not be specified on the eve of the european elections.
in writing. as this is a fast-growing sector in the european union, i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on the following points: ensuring fair working conditions in the delivery sector, creating trust labels linked to the supply chain, ensuring transparency and information at all stages and for all stakeholders, and creating common quality indicators.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on an integrated parcel delivery market to support the growth of e-commerce in the union. for a long time, particularly when i was president of the chamber of commerce and industry of tulle and ussel, i have been convinced that e-commerce and home delivery of parcels are a distribution mode that is a good solution both for local businesses and for customers, especially in rural areas. it is important to work on building consumer confidence in the delivery process. i support the need to improve geographical coverage and accessibility to a universal parcel delivery service in rural and remote areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on an integrated parcel delivery market to support the growth of e-commerce. internet commerce has been growing for several years. we have to support him.
in writing. the text calls for the strengthening of the parcel delivery market within the european union in order to promote the development of e-commerce. online commerce has been growing considerably for several years. however, it would appear that the lack of consumer confidence in cross-border delivery is a hindrance to this development. it is therefore wise to ensure the quality of these delivery services in europe. this is all the more important as e-commerce represents a preferred route of market access for smes in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, the main purpose of which is to adapt the parcel delivery market to the current digital age. it aims to take better account of the consumer's point of view by giving him access to information, such as delivery options and methods, which is part of a concern to modernise the it tool and to protect the consumer, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pablo arias echeverria on the establishment of an integrated parcel delivery market to support the growth of e-commerce in the european union. the report aims to ensure fair working conditions in the delivery sector and accessible, affordable, efficient and high-quality delivery services. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. this text contains some positive developments, such as the strengthening of the requirements for transparency but also for the reliability and safety of parcel transport (through measures to control final delivery and better attention to post-delivery services). however, all the measures envisaged in this text are only envisaged in the light of the liberal ideology of the creation of a european e-commerce market. the creation of such a market requires transport over long distances at lower cost, which is not compatible with satisfactory social and environmental standards. it leads to disasters, like the one at mory ducros. transport workers will once again see their working conditions worsen as european competition between companies deepens. the only beneficiaries of this system will be the large express transport companies. the measures envisaged to help smes in the sector are not up to the competition they face from these large companies. i am voting against this text because i do not want to encourage or endorse this sad continuation of a supply policy which denies social rights and is dragging down the whole european economy.
in writing. the economic importance of e-commerce has been widely recognised. in 2012, the european market for this sector grew by around 20% to reach some eur 250 billion, but the figures indicate that it still has significant growth potential in the european union. however, this potential can only be realised if delivery services meet the needs of online shoppers and retailers: accessible, affordable and quality delivery services throughout europe. in addition, recent studies have shown that problems with these services are one of the main reasons for not buying online. in particular, they account for nearly 70% of the abandonment of purchasing transactions. smes also express dissatisfaction with the lack of transparency, the quality of delivery services and the high costs of cross-border delivery, which they consider to be a significant obstacle to their development in the digital single market. i voted in favour of this report because it recognises that the parcel delivery market in europe is evolving rapidly, but that important obstacles remain, which risk slowing down the growth potential of european e-commerce.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out an action plan for the european steel industry to help the sector meet current challenges and lay the foundations for future competitiveness by encouraging innovation and creating growth and jobs. this is the first time since the davignon plan in 1977 that the european union has proposed such an action plan. it is structured around the following main axes: ensuring an appropriate regulatory framework; facilitating restructuring and meeting skills needs; boosting demand for steel; supporting demand by improving access to foreign markets and ensuring fair conditions of competition at international level; and boosting competitiveness through appropriate energy, climate, resource and energy efficiency policies.
in writing. i voted for the gyürk report on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe. the european steel industry must not disappear from the continent and unfortunately too many factories, particularly in france, have closed in recent years. we must support a revival of the very high quality of our steel industry.
in writing. i voted in favour of the gyürk report for a strong european steel industry. the union legislation, by establishing a regulatory framework and appropriate action programmes, allows the european steel industry access to foreign markets by establishing the conditions for fair competition at international level. the european union is thus giving itself the means to support a sector which is essential for economic growth and employment in europe.
in writing. this text calls for a revitalization of the steel industry in europe. the european union is the world's second largest steel producer. however, the sector is experiencing many difficulties and a significant loss of competitiveness in europe. it is necessary to maintain a strong steel industry in europe, in particular by supporting skilled employment and by boosting demand for steel. this is why incentive mechanisms should be put in place to encourage companies to invest in research and development in the territories where they carry out their industrial operations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which sets out a precise regulatory framework for the steel industry. the european steel industry, and in particular the french steel industry, is now facing increased competition from third country production. i welcome the vote on this text, which gives europe access to foreign markets while guaranteeing energy at affordable prices. finally, the desire to stimulate innovation by developing new, cleaner technologies is part of an environmental logic that i share.
in writing. the steel industry in europe, and particularly in france, is in a bad shape. since the creation of the ecsc, steel has repeatedly returned to the centre of public debate, now for the wrong reasons. the industry, which employs 350,000 people directly, has lost 65,000 in recent years. there are several reasons for this. asymmetric trade agreements allow third countries that practice social, economic and environmental dumping to have unhindered access to the markets of the eu member states. another factor is the rise in energy prices in europe, mainly due to massive investments in renewable energy, and wind in particular. we are paying today for the strategic error of having put everything on services at the expense of industry, which creates wealth, and its defence. finally, the european regulatory framework, which is extremely burdensome, is putting a damper on the competitiveness of industries by making their work, innovation and investments more difficult. simplification of the regulatory framework and a return to intergovernmental cooperation would make it possible to take better account of the expectations of this indispensable industry.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it will restore the competitiveness of the european steel industry by helping the sector to face its current difficulties. the european steel industry is of key importance for many other industrial sectors that create jobs (automotive, construction, etc.). i therefore welcome the action plan proposed by the european commission to restore our steel industry to its strategic role. the report adopted today calls in particular for control of energy and regulatory costs, which are a heavy burden on the steel sector. the union must have a climate, energy and environmental policy that preserves the competitiveness of our industry and makes it possible to avoid further relocations. finally, the report intends to combat asymmetrical trade agreements by adopting a reciprocity approach and using the trade defence instrument. the european union is still too often the 'big naïve' of globalisation in trade matters, putting our companies at a competitive disadvantage.
in writing. the steel industry is essential and strategic for the european economy as it is the foundation from which other industries develop and prosper. a plan to support and revive this priority activity, which had been deeply affected by the crisis, was therefore urgently needed. how can we believe that no major action has been taken since the davignon plan of 1977?! i am glad that the european commission has finally proposed a realistic, comprehensive plan adapted to the needs of this industry. tackling high energy costs, better protecting our market against aggressive and unfair practices from third countries, training qualified personnel, research, development and innovation are the major tasks on which the european union must concentrate its efforts. the priority of the union, like that of its member states, must be to boost employment and competitiveness. the role of the union is therefore to create a framework, conditions and space favourable to the flourishing of our industries and businesses.
in writing. steel is an important material for the whole european production fabric. for years, france and europe were important steel producers. however, since the 1980s, a significant decline has led to factory closures and relocations. a genuinely large-scale plan for the industrial revival of the steel industry is needed. as a member of parliament, i have been very involved in the legislative work on this report, in conjunction with the french trade unions. all my amendments were rejected by the rapporteur for the ppe (from the ump family). whether it was the question of consultation and the obligatory agreement of the employees' representatives on a relocation project, the requirement for public works to use at least 80% european steel or the total retention of employment, i received only one answer: no. the final report encourages restructuring, asks the commission to continue and deepen its competition policy, brings the wolf into the fold by welcoming the transatlantic market agreement and, without the slightest bit of imagination, puts the problems of the sector on the thin shoulders of environmental legislation. for all these reasons i could not but oppose the adoption of this report.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague andras gyürk on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe to help the sector meet the challenges of today. the european steel industry is at the heart of europe's main industrial value chains. thus, maintaining a competitive european steel production plays a strategic role in ensuring economic growth and jobs in europe. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 505 votes in favour, 97 against and 25 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe. i regret that the union's share of world steel production has been halved in the last ten years and, above all, that more than 65 000 jobs have been destroyed in europe in its last years, as was unfortunately the case in my region with the closure of the florange blast furnaces. specific measures are absolutely necessary to remedy this situation and the commission must use all the levers at its disposal at european level to improve the conditions of production in this sector in europe and to maintain the jobs involved. the commission has committed itself to an action plan across several axes: improving investment conditions, improving access for european producers to third country markets and combating unfair practices, addressing the risk of relocation of a carbon dioxide emitting industry in connection with european energy and climate policy, and fostering innovation.
in writing. under the pretext of revitalising the steel sector, the report proposes to increase trade with the united states in this area and welcomes the future large transatlantic market which will open the european market to american steels. as for job protection, it concerns only skilled workers, scientists and leaders talented . once again, the workers have disappeared! the report also condemns the protectionism applied by some countries to defend their steel industry. we will do the same with the establishment of social and ecological barriers. i am voting against this text.
the steel industry is a fundamental activity for the rest of the industrial chain. we must at all costs put this sector back on its feet so that we can regain our independence from the rest of the world. the strategic interests of the union must be defended and european producers protected against increasing global competition. i am therefore pleased to see this report adopted. it is pushing the european union to adopt an action plan to make the steel industry more competitive, which is now paramount. the report highlights three basic ideas: lowering energy prices so that they are more affordable for european producers, curbing environmental standards which are driving many companies to leave europe and imposing the principle of reciprocity in trade relations. this last element is particularly important. european companies must have the same ease of access within the union as outside. if the european union opens its market to third countries, it is only right that they should do the same.
in writing. the steel sector, although vital to european industry, has been in crisis for many years. to remedy this situation - we keep saying this in the gue/ngl - we need a comprehensive plan to revive the sector. the own-initiative report adopted by the european parliament does not meet the requirements for employment in the sector and does not live up to the challenges and expectations of employees. the amendments tabled by my group in the committee on industry have all been rejected. they called for the maintenance of employment in this sector, the mandatory consultation and agreement of employee representatives in the event of a relocation project and the obligation for public buildings to use european steel. this report is in keeping with the classic liberal line which prevails in the european institutions. it encourages restructuring, asks the commission to continue and deepen its competition policy and even welcomes the transatlantic market agreement, even though it will only jeopardise the future of industry in the european union. i therefore voted against this report. the steel industry, the men and women who support it, the regions that depend on it deserve better for their future.
in writing. the crisis has halved europe's share of world steel production and led to the loss of 65 000 jobs in recent years. because this sector is strategic for all industrial sectors, we must preserve our production capacity. we must not only overcome the crisis, but also prepare for recovery! europe has undeniable assets: it remains the world's second largest producer, and we need to involve the 350 000 workers in the sector in thinking about our priorities: reducing co2 emissions, fair trade in international trade, innovation, research... the european parliament's proposals, for which i voted today, are ambitious and must now be taken up by the european commission and the member states.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i am pleased to have the opportunity and the honour of addressing the european parliament as the representative of the council and the greek presidency. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his very creative, moderate and good-faith approach. i am glad that the council and the european parliament, as co-legislators, agree on the fundamentals of the single bank rescue mechanism and agree on the need and urgency of this measure. indeed, the crisis we have been experiencing in the european union, and in particular in the euro area, since 2008 has provided us with valuable lessons. it is absolutely essential to move towards the banking union which will be the fundamental pillar of economic governance for both the european union and the euro area. i come from a country where i was also finance minister at the worst of the crisis and i know what it means to put into practice a bank rescue mechanism with a bail-out system and i know, from our very close experience in cyprus, what it means to put into practice a bail-in mechanism in relation to bank rescue. the market is waiting and needs the single resolution mechanism. the citizens, depositors, investors expect and need this mechanism. it is very important, given the rapporteur's creative spirit, that we complete this process, if possible, in the current parliamentary term and it is true that we do not have much time. you are aware, honourable members of the european parliament, that two serious institutional issues have arisen which we are called upon to address with full respect for the treaties governing the european union and the institutional role of the european parliament. at council level, we have to reconcile the union's competences with the reservations and sensitivities of many member states, not in relation to their legislative bodies or their governments but mainly in relation to their judiciary and more specifically their constitutional courts, and this because there are many serious budgetary obstacles to the allocation and management of the resources necessary for the functioning of the single resolution mechanism. on the other hand, we must preserve the european union's ability to put in place a mechanism which may not be perfect from the outset but which must not be subject to national judicial challenges - so we must take the first step. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i must say that i personally understand and respect the sensitivity of the european parliament, but i respect even more the willingness of the rapporteur to overcome the problems and come up with a workable solution. i am aware, as is the council, of the case law of the court of justice of the european union in relation to the esm and i am also aware of all the problems that have arisen in relation to the legal basis. we must proceed with a method which is compatible with the requirements of the intergovernmental method but which fully respects the substantive and active involvement of parliament, we must complete the dialogue, discuss the issues of substance, find the best possible solution which is certainly a viable and financiable solution, a solution which will of course apply within the logic of the uniform treatment of banks which have the same problems and are in the same situation and, of course, of the systemic banks. in this sense, i believe that we can easily find a compromise, both on procedural and substantive issues, and arrive, with the necessary speed and if possible before the end of this parliamentary term, at the single resolution mechanism. we have the single supervisory mechanism which must prove to be effective. we need, and i will end with this, the single deposit protection mechanism, because in a single banking market higher interest rates operate and attract depositors, and this is of great importance, especially for the periphery of europe, for the countries of the south, for the countries emerging from the experience of the crisis. but the final and highest criterion for any depositor is always the safety of deposits. if there is no single deposit guarantee system there is a deep structural inequality within the banking union. i am therefore glad that this debate gives me the feeling that we are taking an important step towards a compromise and a practical solution.
member of the commission. mr president, i have noted the concern mrs giannakou has just expressed, which is also felt in many parts of europe, because of the number of natural disasters that are happening. but here we are talking about disasters that are not natural: it is the banking crisis. i therefore return to the subject, mr president, to greet the members of parliament who are here and you, mr vice-premier venizelos. the commission, ladies and gentlemen, has broadly shared parliament's aspirations on this matter from the outset. i am not just talking about the six months that have just passed since our proposal was published. long before this, since the non-legislative report presented by elisa ferreira, to whom we also wish a speedy recovery, we were already on the same page. like you, we want a fast, credible and democratic system for managing banking crises in europe. your parliament has expressed its disagreement, through the voices of its president and sharon bowles, with the organization of an intergovernmental conference on a text introduced under the ordinary legislative procedure. the commission's position on this point has been clear from the outset. article 114 is, in our view, the appropriate legal basis for the creation of the single fund. today, more than ever, i stand by that position. however, the political choice made by the council to leave the contributions to the resolution fund provided for by the brrd directive at national level is not, according to the analysis of our legal service, contrary to the treaties. it is essential, however, that the content of the intergovernmental agreement be strictly limited to the elements necessary to manage the transfer and pooling of bank contributions. all other elements, including the establishment of the fund, its governance, its tasks, the calculation of contributions and borrowing between national compartments in the transitional phase, should be laid down by a regulation adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. it would be a great concession for parliament to accept a limited intergovernmental agreement out of realism. the council, for its part, must fully recognise the role of this parliament as a co-legislator. the aim, once this principle has been established, is now, in a few weeks, to clarify the elements of an ambitious and acceptable compromise. at this stage, there are three major issues that need to be addressed together: funding, governance and the democratic accountability of the single resolution board. as regards financing, which is obviously at the heart of the debate, that is to say the setting up, as mr sánchez presedo has said, of this european fund, i propose four lines of work, if you will. firstly, the sooner we pool the national compartments, the better. i am personally in favour of a five-year pooling instead of a ten-year pooling. alternatively, if we want to maintain a unity and parallelism between the planned period for feeding the fund and the mutualisation, we could consider a period of seven years to achieve stability. in such a case, we might expect increased mutualisation at the beginning of the period. for example, instead of 15% per year over seven years, one could imagine 40% in the first year, 30% in the second, 20% in the third and 5% in the fourth and fifth years. secondly, we must strengthen cross-financing between national compartments. if a national compartment proves to be insufficient for the resolution of an institution, it shall be able to borrow from the other compartments. thirdly, at the end of the transitional period, i.e. when the fund is fully pooled, the board should be able to collect directly from all banks the necessary contributions, including ex post contributions to be raised in case of urgent funding needs. the council presents the intergovernmental agreement as a necessary tool. so, for the sake of realism, but then it must be a temporary solution that will make way for a viable solution, after the mutualisation. fourthly, we must move forward now on the question of financial support, even if it is only gradually being brought together. i think, for example, that we could explore the idea that elisa ferreira has proposed, that of a credit line as a last resort. the risk is limited, since these subsidies will only be in the form of guarantees and loans, which will be reimbursed by private money, without any impact on the taxpayer. finally, as regards financing, we must be careful not to focus the negotiations too much on the question of the fund. we must measure the reforms already achieved with you on supervision, on capitalisation and even on resolution, with the political agreement on the brrd directive. we're not in the same time as before. the guiding principle is now to lease in, not out. the use of resolution funds should therefore remain exceptional. finally, i would remind you once again that this is not public money but money collected from the private sector. i would add a few more points, mr president. we must find a viable and credible compromise on governance. when i put the proposal for a resolution on the table, i emphasized this point, without being an ideologue, but we must find ways of taking decisions quickly and effectively. financial stability and the fate of depositors are too important to be sacrificed in the name of institutional competition which would be inappropriate. resolution decisions must be motivated by technical excellence and not by considerations of national policy or institutional ego. it is in this spirit, again without being an ideologue, that i proposed that the commission be the institution responsible for pressing the button on the motion for a resolution tabled by the independent resolution authority. the council has chosen another path. the question is whether this will be an effective and credible way for the markets and for applying a resolution procedure to a bank. we're not there yet. parliament and the council have asked the commission to be creative, to design a system which is in line with the state of the case law. the court of justice's ruling a few days ago on short selling confirms the validity of the system we had originally proposed. i personally pledge to you, ladies and gentlemen, that i will do my utmost to find this creative solution. finally, the discussions should make it possible to strengthen the democratic accountability of the resolution board. we have already made clear in our proposal the principle of an independent authority, but one which is accountable to parliament for its actions. you have wanted to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the council of resolution and i fully support parliament's view on this point. i am convinced that the council shares this objective and i hope that the discussions will lead to a satisfactory compromise. in conclusion, i believe that the following are the major challenges facing us in the trilogues which are about to begin or which are still to take place, and some of the solutions which i would like to put forward as constructive proposals. reading the greek presidency's reply to sharon bowles and what i also heard at the ecofin council, it seems to me that the council is in a state of openness and is ready to find - at any rate, i hope so - a credible compromise. the commission, for its part, is there to facilitate the search for solutions, and you can count on my help and that of all my teams and departments. we have a few weeks to come up with a deal. this is too important a subject to risk failure or too long a wait which would undermine the whole structure of the banking union. since the outbreak of the financial crisis in 2008, and even more since the start of the sovereign debt crisis in 2010, europe has been able, we have been able, the citizens have been able to measure the consequences of a certain indecision every time we have had difficulty taking the necessary measures quickly. we are in the final stretch of the banking union on the most ambitious project in recent years and our top priority in order to clean up the financial sector is to restore confidence. so it is not a matter of slacking off as we approach the result. in order to achieve this result in the coming weeks, i want to confirm the full commitment and readiness of the european commission and myself in particular.
the committee on constitutional affairs has appointed a rapporteur for its opinion. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the bank resolution mechanism is the last and indispensable link in the construction of a solid and reliable european banking union. our fellow citizens need us to endorse the creation of this single resolution mechanism to avoid burdening the states and therefore the taxpayers with the bankruptcy of credit institutions. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs of our parliament, i had from the outset focused on the committee's competence, on our prerogatives in constitutional matters, on the issues of governance and democratic accountability, which are still one of the sensitive issues today. some of the tools that i had proposed, that we had proposed, were taken up in the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and i think they should be given serious consideration by the member states. we have, in particular, argued and still argue for parliamentary control of the exercise of the powers of resolution, the single resolution board, even though we are perfectly aware of the confidentiality issues, of course. we also believe that the european parliament should be able to give its opinion by means of approval procedures when appointing the executive director and the deputy executive director of the single resolution board. we must also try to define and guarantee, as far as possible, the right to information for national parliaments. finally, in the opinion which i voted in the afco committee, i naturally supported the legal basis based on article 114 of the treaty, which seems to me to be the most appropriate basis.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i too wish my dear colleague elisa ferreira a speedy recovery. the european union, and more particularly the euro area, remains in 2014 trapped in the rut it has been in since the financial crisis erupted in august 2007. the banking union project is based on the conviction, widely shared in this house, that the european union must prevent a failure in the private banking sector from spreading to public finances and that the failure of one institution leads to the collapse of the entire european financial and economic system. some progress has been made. the supervisory board, which is part of the european central bank, will take over from september 2014 the task of policing the main banking institutions in the euro area and will be responsible for checking the soundness of their balance sheets, through stress tests, which should make it possible to break the sometimes partial, even incestuous relationship that some national supervisors have with some of the giants of the banking sector. in future, when a bank is in financial difficulty, an internal rescue procedure will be applied to bring the shareholders and creditors of the institution in difficulty into the picture while providing an absolute guarantee to the savings of our fellow citizens of up to eur 100 000. on the other hand, as regards the procedures for bank resolution, at the very moment when we have to ask ourselves whether it is necessary to bail out a bank in difficulty, the european council has clearly fallen back on the mistakes it has been known for since the beginning of this crisis. it is too little, too late and on too intergovernmental a scale. too little, as the amount of the resolution fund will be quickly exhausted in the event of a bailout of a systemically important euro area institution; too late, because the phasing-out of the funds is planned over too long a period; and too intergovernmental, because the council seems to be unaware of the risks of conflict of interest it carries ... (the president cuts off the speaker's microphone)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr minister i thank you for being with us commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i extend my warmest regards to elisa ferreira, whose speedy return we all wish for. commissioner, you used the word 'realism'. i must confess that after a few years in this house working with you on these matters, i have learned to put into perspective what realism means to the council. not so long ago we were told that a number of things were not feasible, including putting the banks under the control of a european authority. if banks are now supervised at european level, i think it is logical that their eventual restructuring, or even bankruptcy, should also take place within a european framework. all this for the good reasons of the internal market, of putting the banks on an equal footing, of having a fund which is really common, so that we can be credible together vis-à-vis the outside world. we do not make laws just between us but to ensure the soundness of the european banking sector in the world; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i think that is what we should be guided by: the internal market, no recourse to taxpayers. i sometimes get the impression from reading the council's text that the ministers were sent out the door and are now coming back in through the window. as regards the legal basis, i am not convinced by the arguments put forward for an intergovernmental agreement. as a lawyer, i know that we have a narrow appreciation of anything that is not common law. do you think, commissioner, that anyone would accept that part of the prerogatives of the bundestag be withdrawn from this house by an agreement between the länder which would be contrary to the grundgesetz? you'd call that person crazy! i do not see why this parliament should be less respected than other, indeed, highly respected ones. we therefore need codecision and the respect of procedures in order to arrive, all together, at a text which will make it possible to take decisions quickly and effectively. everything else is just literature. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, for us the question of modernising our trade defence instruments is obviously a very political one. if we want to preserve our jobs today, create new jobs tomorrow, if we want to act for growth in europe - and this should be the priority for all of us here - we must of course pursue an offensive policy in favour of european industry, in favour of our investments, in favour of our companies, in favour of research, but we also need a genuine defensive policy, which protects our own interests and the interests of our companies. we must therefore have effective trade defence instruments which are a real deterrent. i do not see why, in the name of any ideology, in the name of any dogma, europe should be open to all dumping. europe must of course act in favour of its enterprises and its production. we cannot afford in today's world to be naive and to be less good at defending our interests than others. i am thinking in particular of the united states. we need to have a real business strategy, one that protects us from unfair practices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we regret this, because it has probably been done at the expense of our industry. in fact, for your information, if the eib did not finance solar panels in china, we would be more consistent there too. i should also like to add that the maximum duty for solar panels in the united states is 249%, whereas in germany it is 64%. look for the mistake... it is therefore clear that europe must defend its own interests better. that is why, commissioner, i think it is very important not only to reform but also to strengthen our trade defence instruments.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all say that the revision of trade defence instruments is absolutely essential today in this very difficult globalisation in which we live. we also see that this is what our fellow citizens expect, what european businesses expect, and that this is a step, albeit insufficient, but absolutely necessary if we are to have a common economic and industrial policy at the level of the union. the case of chinese photovoltaic panels was an example of a trade defence strategy extremely poorly conducted by the european union. not so much because of the european commission, commissioner, but because of the chinese interventions which threatened a number of member states, and because of the division of those member states, which forced you, in a way, to act badly on the question of chinese photovoltaic panels, where in the end the quality of the relationship with china weighed more heavily than the defence of a european industry, which was and is still a high-performing and competitive industry. in this review, the compromises achieved by the european parliament so far are important for the access of small and mediumsized enterprises to the mechanisms and for ensuring that social and environmental issues are finally integrated into our trade defence instruments. the idea of taking international standards, whether social or environmental, into account in the sanctions that could be applied in the event of dumping is an essential element of the evolution of our trade defence framework. and i hope that an amendment which has not been passed in committee will be passed in the plenary tomorrow, namely the possibility for trade unions to complain to the commission. this possibility exists in the large anglo-saxon countries; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, the least that can be said is that the late modernisation and strengthening of the european union's trade defence instruments is not arousing enthusiasm. the letters we receive clearly show the expectations and demands of a european industry which is the victim of unfair practices which are weakly combated. the first version of the report, which was drawn up by a socialist, and the initial positions of the commissioner responsible, mr de gucht, were not only inadequate but sometimes counterproductive. the amendments to the report by the committee on international trade are certainly more acceptable, although they leave out crucial issues such as the mind-boggling rule of lesser law. i imagine that the proximity of the european elections must have contributed to the relative firmness of many colleagues. i have heard this in this house from supporters of free trade, which has been unbridled so far. but i am concerned about the strength of these supporters and the fact that they are either totally indifferent to the plight of european workers or simply believe that the 'invisible hand' dear to adam smith inevitably brings happiness and prosperity. i am also concerned about the power left to the commission in drawing up guidelines which could completely unravel the timid legislative advances which this parliament is likely to approve tomorrow. finally, i am convinced that the real solution is not to entrust the commission with the defence of the european economy. the sad example of chinese solar panels, cited by other speakers, showed that in this field, as in others, the interest of the european union as a whole is not paramount, but that of its german leadership alone. the states have divergent interests and they must regain their commercial sovereignty.
mr president, commissioner, trade defence instruments are a very important, even central, point in european trade policy. it was necessary to start this reform process because while our trade defence instruments are still relevant in substance, we must admit that they no longer respond to the current context. it is not protectionist to give our companies the tools to defend themselves, it is economic realism. in this respect, the result we have achieved today shows that our main concern has been how to combat dumping in all its forms. how can we combat commercial dumping? i am thinking here of our efforts to make it easier for smes to access these instruments or to limit the duration of investigations. how can we combat the increasingly aggressive social and environmental dumping which we have always denounced? we have been able to achieve this result because, despite a very tight timetable, we have been constantly trying to reconcile very different positions. we therefore strongly hope that the commission and the council will be determined to continue their work at the same pace, because it would be a mistake to delay the entry into force of this regulation. a question, commissioner: can we have a clearer answer on the guidelines, please? (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i am aware of mr rübig's interest in the development of smes. it is clear that smes have never had the means to defend themselves against the outside world in terms of exports, because they do not have the means to do so, unlike large companies and multinationals. that is why we have made sure that smes can have much easier access to these trade defence instruments.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the financial transaction tax, which we are talking about again, must cease to be that sea serpent with which we pretend to run by allowing the great gamble of financial speculation to play out against labour and productive and social investment. the more months and days pass, the more this project is being drained of its substance under the pressure of the money powers to which governments are giving in, including, it is true, mr lamberts, the french government. such a tax is not a burden, as has been said; it is the contribution of finance to the common good. such a decision is therefore in the public interest to redirect money towards social and human needs. the commission's initial proposal is a step forward and would allow €36 billion to be recovered for job protection, the development of public services for the common good, the fight against poverty or climate change. taxing speculation on a wider basis also means reducing tax competition, which is so damaging to our economies. so now we must act quickly.
mr president, at the same time as many of our fellow citizens are becoming poorer, financial speculators are becoming more and more rich. our fellow citizens are turning their backs on the european project because of this profoundly unfair situation. however, we have a significant lever to mobilize resources, in the order of 30 to 35 billion euros, namely the financial transaction tax, in order to meet our needs, to fight poverty, to ensure the energy transition, to carry out cultural projects, etc. the financial and banking lobby is convincing some heads of state who, despite their declarations of principle, lack the will to implement this indispensable act. their responsibility is great.
mr president, madam commissioner, commissioner, in 2008 europe decided to take the lead in the world in climate, energy transition and industry. we have seen today that ambition for climate and that ambition for energy transition clearly dilute. the european parliament strongly advocates a 'package' which combines binding targets on climate, renewable energy and energy efficiency and unfortunately we see the commission pushing back the issue of binding targets, whether on renewable energy or on energy efficiency. the idea of a single european renewable energy target which is not declined at national level is not just a regression in terms of climate targets, in terms of energy transition, it is also a regression in terms of european integration, a regression in the will to carry a european project. environmentalists argue that 40% of the cost is to be met by energy efficiency, 45% by renewable energy and almost 60% by greenhouse gas emissions. it is a climate project, an energy project but also a civilization project for europe.
mr president, we are about to vote again on the quantified objectives for 2030, but all this seems to me to be nonsense! how many times have these numbers changed since 2008? and how many times will they change by 2030? will the future european parliament, which will be elected in may, not reverse this strategy? how much visibility are we giving to our industry in the midst of a crisis? as we have said time and again, our industry needs a stable and predictable framework to encourage long-term investment. but today, we are being asked to set targets that seem unrealistic to me. this is a real blow to our industrial enterprises. how do you expect them to stay competitive? at a time when the cost of developing subsidized green energy is being denounced everywhere, i am surprised that there is talk of a separate target for renewable energy, which would still weigh on electricity costs. let us therefore leave the member states the flexibility and freedom to decide on their energy mix. i will support a single target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. reducing co2 emissions is our priority. so let's focus on that goal. but when the eu is only responsible for 11% of global emissions today, and that percentage could even fall in the coming years, it is an illusion to think that the eu alone can change things. by pursuing a one-sided course, we are organizing the flight of our productive apparatus. it is simply the leap forward of this policy.
mr president, i would just like to express a message for a minute. i think that the three objectives which we want to be binding must first be incentives to chart our own path, that of sustainable and innovative growth which creates jobs. because we need to invest in an industrial device that is economical and low-polluting. solutions exist and are being developed. because we can get households and businesses to save on their energy bills through thermal renovation or other efficiency measures. because we can also do a lot to rebalance the union's trade balance by substituting, as far as possible, for our fossil fuel imports, indigenous and non-carbon production - i am talking about renewable energy. the time is therefore ripe for action, while europe can still hope to play a role in the whole chain from production to consumption. and at this stage our member states are fully responsible.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, anne delvaux, on the outstanding work she has done throughout these negotiations. in 2008, when the 2020 energy-climate "package" was being negotiated, the pessimists said, "we'll never get there. it's too hard, let's give up, we won't make it!" today, the european union is on track not only to meet its 2020 targets for reducing greenhouse gases and developing renewable energy, but even better, it should exceed those targets - not to mention job creation. without touching on these measures for 2020, we must already be thinking about 2030. you know my leitmotif is legal stability. we need to provide a framework for our business leaders to offer predictability and confidence in the markets and thus encourage investors to finance projects for the future. the challenge is crucial: it is a question of reconciling economic and environmental interests to ensure that our children have a future on this planet and also a job in europe. this requires at least two binding, ambitious and effective objectives. firstly, the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions must be set at a minimum of 40%. secondly, beyond the measures taken in europe, it is clear that the international agreement under negotiation is essential to ensure the future of our planet and our economies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. this control regulation ensures that the rules of the common fisheries policy are respected. in its proposal, the european commission reclassifies the competences conferred under the old comitology procedure by dividing them between delegated and implementing acts. this is a very formal division, but it is worth thinking about. the criteria for allocating these powers are laid down in the treaty, but in practice we are faced with a vast grey area which requires political arbitration, which is also the prerogative of the legislator. it is often wrongly forgotten that the allocation of institutional powers in the union as redefined in lisbon is an ongoing process and that these technically-appearing alignment regulations are an extension of it. the commission proposal almost always settles on delegated acts, and we are told that since these delegated acts are subject to the ex post control of parliament, parliament retains its competence. i would urge caution, ladies and gentlemen, because parliament does not have the human resources or the procedures at present to carry out such a post-mortem check in a serious manner. without these two conditions, the spirit of the treaty will be misconstrued. we also draw the commission's attention to the opinion which parliament's legal services have given us at our request. the 'lisbonisation' procedure is indeed intended to verify the conformity of the texts with the treaty, but if this conformity concerns articles 290 and 291, it also concerns the charter of fundamental rights annexed to the treaty. i call on the commission to confirm to parliament in its future work on alignment that this legal verification has been made. i have made two points on the fisheries control regulation. the first concerns the need for uniform implementation of the regulation. this need for consistency across europe has led me to defend the commission's proposal to give priority to delegated acts so that fishermen in san benedetto del tronto, loch inver, vigo, baltimore, hull, skagen and guilvinec will not suffer any injustice, thanks to a uniformly implemented control regulation. secondly, i followed the commission and defended the idea that this was merely 'lisbonisation', or legal alignment, and not a pretext for a revision of the fisheries control regulation. this request was all the more justified since the reform of the common fisheries policy entailed a subsequent revision of the control regulation. despite the numerous requests by my colleagues for amendments to the substance, i have stuck to a list of recommendations addressed to the commission so that it takes them into account in its future control regulation. i therefore regret very much, madam commissioner, that the commission is returning to us today with a proposal which does not incorporate any of these requests. the commission has recently sent us its proposal for an omnibus text to adapt control to the landing requirement, which is quite normal, in accordance with the common fisheries policy, but without making the intelligent and consistent adjustments to the control regulation. these adjustments could take account of both the reform as a whole and the substantive remarks of my colleagues, often drawn from the field and above all from the daily life of fishermen. instead, we have a review in slices of salami: sometimes landing, sometimes data collection... control is a whole that should not be underestimated. otherwise, the debates in parliament are cut short, all the more so when we are asked to legislate in haste. once again, the control regulation is the daily life of fishermen. the commission has had the necessary time to prepare its proposal. however, despite this unspeakable sense of disrespect, i will maintain my commitment to this compromise, without prejudging what the controlling debate will become.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i should first like to thank my colleagues and try to reassure mr romeva i rueda, even though he has left, by telling him that nothing has changed in this text in relation to the control regulation. we have only answered one question: how is it implemented? is it by executive act or by delegated act? i would also like to say to mr ferreira that the greatest harm to our coastlines is the feeling, sometimes unjustified, that in other ports controls are not applied in the same way. i will not repeat all the arguments of my colleagues, which i share. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your clarification. unfortunately, i find that we are still in the dark on the question of revision. i would also like to say that what our fishermen need are rules which are of course applied and, to do so, are known, are consistent and do not change every four mornings. if you change the rule every day - once the data was collected some time ago, the discards in 2013, maybe a revision in 2015 - the risk is that there is not only saturation but also exasperation and that the fishermen are the victims. i hope for their sake and for the sake of the effectiveness of our reform and our control regulation that you will take note of our comments, as you have said, madam commissioner, and i thank you for that.
the s&d group is therefore calling for a new directive on the safety of passengers in air transport, which is a very important one. the directive is aimed at ensuring that passengers are not subject to unreasonable restrictions on their rights to travel by air. the commission proposal made a number of improvements over the current text. i think we have succeeded in improving it, and i would like to thank our rapporteur and all my colleagues in the other groups for this result. we are proposing legislation that is actually applicable. there is no point in granting passengers very extensive rights if in practice airlines can circumvent their obligations by invoking some technical problem or if the rules are operationally unviable. we have therefore set very strict limits on the extraordinary circumstances which companies may invoke. the regulation also introduces an important new element: the right to financial compensation in the event of delay. however, we must take account of the diversity of destinations and the material constraints that arise from this, while keeping in mind the idea of a common continental airspace. we must therefore maintain the principle of the three trigger points for financial compensation. it may seem tempting to support amendments which seem to be very beneficial to consumers, but this could lead airlines - and you said it, commissioner - to simply cancel flights rather than try to meet reasonable deadlines. we must also maintain the prohibition on denied boarding in the event of non-use of the outbound or connecting flight. finally, i would like to mention a few important points: the total transparency of the displayed price, which should allow for better price comparability (including hold baggage), the authorization to take along personal effects other than cabin baggage, but also the obligation for airlines to provide contact points at airports in case of problems. all this, in my view, is a balanced text between better rights for passengers and realistic obligations for airlines, which is a good basis for discussion with the council.
mr president, i shall not be very long. i simply want to draw the attention of the house to the treatment of passengers to and from the outermost regions. these flights are categorized in the regulation as extra-community flights, contrary to all the principles on which the outermost regions are based as full members of the european union, and naturally a less favourable compensation system for delay follows. i have therefore tabled a number of amendments to correct this situation and i would ask my colleagues to support them.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking our colleague, mr bach, for his work on this matter. the commission's proposal to examine passengers' rights in the event of denied boarding, long delay or cancellation of their flight is in the right direction, but not sufficiently in line with parliament's wishes, which have strengthened passengers' rights through the work of its rapporteur and the amendments of the members. several contentious cases have given rise to important case law of the court of justice of the european union. it was therefore time for the legislator to take up the matter, and this was all the more important as the stress of the trip should not be compounded by the stress of the unclear legal framework. the text we are voting on tomorrow sets out better the rights that citizens can claim, and this is true throughout europe. they are even strengthened in relation to the commission's proposal. the means of enforcing these rights are also being strengthened: the provision of complaint forms by airlines and the role of national bodies responsible for the application of the text. i would like to express my deep regret, however, that i have not been able to convince my colleagues to ban denied boarding on the grounds of overbooking. the purchase of an airline ticket must, in my view, be treated as a contract, and the report that has been adopted says so. every citizen who buys a ticket has the right to his seat on the plane, and it cannot be taken away for commercial reasons. refusal of boarding should only be allowed as a measure to ensure the safety of the flight, of passengers and in exceptional circumstances, such as a health or terrorist threat. overbooking and the resulting denial of boarding have led to arbitrary situations in which only the strongest win out in the end. i do not want the members who are or will be concerned to regret the decision not to take this type of problem into consideration. that is the regret i wanted to express, mr president.
the commission has not yet responded to the request for information. mrs meissner, i of course agree with your point, but we still have to agree on what our female colleagues call a 'handbag'. if it is a party bag, it is not the same as some handbags that resemble real suitcases. so we can see here that the female fantasy gives rise to a wide margin of interpretation. that's what i wanted to make clear.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, let me first of all congratulate the european commission on its proposal and, in particular, cecilia malmström, the rapporteur, claude moraes, the fictitious rapporteur who was unable to be here today - we regret that - and all the other fictitious rapporteurs for the excellent work and compromise that has been presented to us today. i also welcome the good cooperation between all the political groups. we know that european migration policy is being developed and, in particular, the legal migration framework, which is in its infancy: the blue card, the single permit, posted workers and, today, the directive on seasonal workers. to understand better the progress of this reform, we need to ask ourselves three questions. first of all, why do we need such a directive? we are responding to a need in our economy, namely the need to use seasonal workers from third countries. every year, 100 000 seasonal workers travel to the european union to work. it is essential that the arrangements for their coming be made in a calm manner. then what do we do to maintain our ideal of justice? we guarantee these workers a fair wage and the same working conditions as european workers, because europe is not a purveyor of misery. finally, what are we doing to protect our european citizens and, in particular, their jobs? we avoid unfair competition by imposing the same pay, the same working hours, the same holidays for foreign and european workers. we allow member states to refuse the entry of seasonal workers if european workers are available. each state will thus be able to set the volumes of admission, which is essential to adapt the flow of foreign workers to the needs of each economy. we are thus giving ourselves the means of a competitive economy which can use migration according to its needs without endangering the jobs of european citizens. this is the face our migration policy must have, for a migration that is chosen and not forced. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, as i said at the end of my speech, this is a matter of immigration which will be chosen and quantified by the member states. therefore, each sme, depending on each member state, will be able to choose its immigration and have a chosen and quantified immigration. i therefore imagine that smes will find their way, that they will finally have a chosen resource in terms of employment and that they will be satisfied with the quality of the workers they will have under their control.
madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur on his work and tenacity in bringing about the adoption of this directive. this result was not achieved without difficulty; it would have taken almost four years, eight presidencies, as you said, to reach an agreement. the absence of political will in the council to advance the rights of these precarious workers has made things more difficult, when it was essential to prevent the intolerable behaviour of certain negligent operators. this text is therefore essential to put an end to the real and repeated abuse of seasonal workers who will no longer have to submit to conditions which, it must be said, sometimes amounted to slavery. the directive is also crucial for the european union to regulate this very useful form of work in certain areas of tourism and agriculture. to illustrate the positive effects expected from these new provisions, i would mention two guarantees, among others, of much more dignified working conditions: the obligation of a contract of employment or a firm offer of employment, which specifies pay and working time as a condition for the issuing of a residence permit, as well as the provision of appropriate housing and, in the case of accommodation arranged by the employer, a rent that is not excessive or automatically deducted from the worker's salary; two things in particular are important.
mr president, the text we are debating today finally grants a number of rights to the approximately 100 000 seasonal workers living in the european union. it should put an end, i hope, to the worst abuses in italy, greece, spain and elsewhere, since all the countries of the european union are involved. it is the result of long negotiations with the council, with member states stuck on these cases, but it also endorses a precarious status for these migrants who are among the most vulnerable, a utilitarian status that boils down to 'come when you are needed' and 'clear the floor when it is no longer needed'. this "kleenex" view of migration issues cannot be mine. this text will ensure rights for migrants when they have a work contract but will send them back to the underground at the end of it. the european union is constantly promoting the free movement of goods and capital, but people are not so fortunate. we are multiplying the precarious statuses and this is not acceptable. i shall therefore abstain on this minimalist text.
mr president, commissioner, look at what happens when everyone in the european parliament works together and when a migrant is also considered a worker: success is at hand! when i look at the outcome of these negotiations, with regard to seasonal workers from third countries, for once i see a glimmer of hope. i owe it to my two colleagues who surround me, claude moraes, alejandro cercas, but also to sergio cofferati and others. i hope that, on the basis of this dynamic, they have succeeded in inscribing in this text that a migrant worker must have the same rights and the same conditions as a european worker. the principle of equal pay for equal work must become the european union's true golden rule. i really hope that this concept of solidarity, which means that everyone has the right to decent work, wherever they come from and in whatever country of the european union they work, will become the cornerstone of this european social model which is far from being outdated and which is indeed our path to the future.
madam president, i will be very brief, this is really a point of order. i think the vote should be taken again and it is void. i did not vote because i saw that the rapporteur had asked to speak. and indeed, as he himself says, the right to speak comes before the right to vote. the fact that the rapporteur himself is asking for a vote against his own report is a crucial element. and this crucial element is likely to vitiate the vote that has been taken.
in writing. while i recognise the importance of protecting undocumented women in the european union, granting them new rights would be contrary to our positions to better regulate migration flows, both legal and illegal. this overly liberal report risked violating the right of member states to decide their own immigration policy and that is why i opposed it.
in writing. i voted against the report on the situation of undocumented migrant women in the european union because it gives too many rights to people who have entered the eu illegally. we should not congratulate people who have entered europe illegally by granting them the same rights as people who are legally making administrative arrangements. all this, of course, with due respect for human rights.
in writing. i voted against this text. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and immigration, in particular in the context of the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and immigration. however, i felt that this text went too far in encouraging member states to grant too many rights to persons who are in an irregular situation. i am of course of the opinion that the right to health is a fundamental right, granted to all, and that it should be dissociated from immigration controls. however, the granting of rights such as labour rights, for example, must remain conditional on a lawful situation in the member states.
in writing. i voted against this own-initiative report which once again stigmatises a category of the population, in this case undocumented migrant women in the european union. let us not fall into the trap of the left-wing ideology which, through positive discrimination, would like to give additional rights to certain categories of the population. i refuse to give in to this communitarian approach, which aims to emphasize, for example, that "undocumented lesbian, bisexual and transsexual migrants are victims of double discrimination", because it is all discrimination against migrants that must be condemned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. finally, i regret the lack of political initiative on the part of the union to agree on a clear strategy with the countries of origin of migrants, as many countries do, such as canada.
in writing. here is a report that will have its share of surprises. with good intentions, he simply praises the disintegration of european immigration policy and related national policies. the report makes the undocumented migrant women look like vulnerable people who have been forced to flee their countries only to find poverty and humiliation in europe. lesbians, transsexuals and bisexuals are now exposed to an increase in discrimination which makes the conditions for their entry into european territory more relative. since they have settled in a territory of the union without respecting the rules governing it, these women, in their status as victims, should be granted asylum or a permanent residence permit. what about those who, with similar characteristics, follow the procedures and are no less victims? the report does not answer that question.
in writing. i did not support the report by my colleague norica nicolai on the situation of undocumented migrant women in the european union. the report proposes to grant new rights to persons illegally present in the territory of the union. the implementation of these new rights requires substantial funds and resources, but is also likely to create a 'call to action' and thus encourage the arrival of undocumented immigrants in large numbers. i therefore regret the adoption of this report.
in writing. this report provides a detailed account of the obstacles, discrimination and violence particularly affecting women among undocumented migrants entering the union. due to their legal status, undocumented migrants have little or no access to basic services in the host country and women in particular, particularly in terms of access to healthcare. the report makes a number of recommendations, ranging from the most general to the most concrete, to the member states and the commission to ensure that the fundamental rights of these migrants are respected, starting with ratifying the un international convention on the rights of migrants and dissociating migration policies from health and education, to which everyone is entitled. it also called for more humane solutions to be found to replace detention centres with prison conditions, in cooperation with ngos. i vote for it.
in writing. the fundamental rights of migrants must be protected, especially those of migrant women, who suffer the double penalty of being both women and migrants, and without papers. they face a variety of discrimination, significant obstacles and multiple forms of violence, which this report provides a detailed assessment of. the report calls on member states to allow undocumented migrants to access basic services. it encourages the possibility of reporting perpetrators of abuse without fear of arrest and expulsion. the establishment of an anonymous complaint mechanism through civil society or trade unions could be a good solution. it called on the member states to ratify the un international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families, which none of them had yet ratified. this report, which has no legislative scope, has been the subject of an attempt to deconstruct it by the right wing of the house. i am glad that the majority of members opposed it. it would be more credible if the same majority could be drawn up for binding texts. unfortunately, that is not the case.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to introduce a special procedure for third-country nationals applying to stay in the european union for the purpose of taking up seasonal employment, and to define the rights of seasonal workers. it provides for an accelerated admission procedure, which will have to be examined within a maximum of 90 days, based on a common definition and criteria (employment contract, firm job offer).
in writing. this text sets out at european level the conditions for entry and residence of seasonal workers from third countries. i supported this text because it is necessary to regulate the working conditions of third country nationals coming to fill these low-skilled jobs. this does not mean that we are depriving european citizens of certain job opportunities. member states may check whether the vacancy in question could be filled by european citizens, in which case they may reject the application for entry and residence.
in writing. despite appearances, this text organises a labour immigration not seasonal but sustainable. because a seasonal worker who stays in europe for nine months out of the twelve and who receives social benefits, including family and unemployment benefits, as provided for in the directive, is a permanent immigrant worker. and that permanence will be compounded by your facilitation clause. i cannot be led to believe that the use of seasonal workers from third countries is motivated solely by a shortage of local labour. of the tens of millions of unemployed in the european union, many would no doubt be happy to do these jobs. but it is doubtful whether companies specialising in the importation of extra-european labour under the guise of secondment or seasonality are more efficient than official employment offices. some of them even seem to be able to receive public subsidies for job creation. if the so-called shortage is not the whole story, it is that employers, not just those who exploit the misery of others, are finding a financial interest in it. there must therefore be some possibility of social dumping.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague claude moraes setting out the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal employment. in order to prevent seasonal workers from third countries from exceeding the authorised duration of stay, a maximum duration of stay has been established. the member states will also be able to determine the volumes of admission themselves. the number of restrictions and inappropriate conditions linked to seasonal work has therefore been limited, while ensuring maximum safeguards for applicants against illegal forms of exploitation. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by 498 votes in favour, 56 against and 68 abstentions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and i welcome the adoption by a very large majority of a legislative act on seasonal work, a first at european level. the 100 000 seasonal workers from third countries who come to the union every year will have to have the same working conditions as european workers. this is an important step forward, as it fights unfair competition by imposing the same pay, the same working hours, the same holidays for foreign and european workers. at the same time, each member state retains the choice of the number of workers it accepts and may set a maximum duration of stay of between 5 and 9 months. the new provisions will have to be implemented by the member states within a maximum of two and a half years.
in writing. this directive on seasonal workers who are not eu nationals is the first legislative framework on legal migration for low and unskilled workers. it offers substantial advances on the wages of these workers and their right to complain. member states must provide for sanctions against fraudulent companies, and in particular subcontractors, and 'ensure that ... effective and adequate inspections are carried out' and also ensure that they do not use workers from outside the union if the need can be met by our nationals. how can labour inspectorates ensure this effectively, given the many budget cuts to their services? this report does not take account of the consequences of austerity, whose first victims are always the precarious workers, in this case foreigners, who are immediately dismissed from their jobs. however, in view of the minimum rights acquired here for seasonal workers, i shall abstain.
in writing. the problem of seasonal workers from third countries should not be confused with that of posted workers or foreign service providers. most member states currently need seasonal workers from outside the european union and a structure to manage immigration at union level could bring real added value. it should also be noted that the introduction of legal immigration channels can reduce illegal immigration and the exploitation that often follows. it is also essential that this directive should ensure very closely the equal treatment necessary on the union's labour market to ensure respect for wage and working conditions and thus to combat social dumping. i supported this report in the plenary because i think the criteria it sets are reasonable and balanced and because this directive will help to fill the current legal vacuum.
in writing. every year, around 100 000 seasonal workers come to work in the european union. i voted in favour of this directive on the immigration of these workers, with two objectives: to guarantee seasonal workers a fair deal, while ensuring that social dumping and unfair competition are prevented. the rules provide for the introduction of similar working conditions for seasonal workers and european workers (in terms of pay, working time, holidays and housing) to put an end to their exploitation. at the same time, member states remain free to determine the volume of admission and to refuse entry to foreign workers if the posts can be filled by europeans.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal employment. seasonal migrant workers are sometimes subjected to intolerable abuses. the european union had to respond by protecting these workers from unacceptable treatment. moreover, by bringing the treatment of migrant workers closer to that of local workers, the european parliament also protects the latter from social dumping and from a race to at least a social status. the directive requires that a person entering the union must have a firm employment contract or offer of employment in order to discourage unscrupulous employers from resorting to covert work. this text is much awaited in our territories to better regulate and protect a workforce useful to the agricultural sector in season, but it is essential that it be subject to the same rules as other employees.
in writing. i supported this text, which bans the import of atlantic bigeye tuna from bolivia, cambodia, georgia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone. this trade sanction was imposed because vessels flying the flag of these countries were declared to be fishing illegally, unregulated and unreported, whereas these species benefit from strictly controlled programmes to ensure their survival. at the same time, we have lifted the ban on tuna imports from bolivia and georgia, since the latter now comply with our law.
in writing. i voted for the report on the import of atlantic bigeye tuna. council regulation (ec) no 827/2004 prohibits the import of atlantic bigeye tuna originating in bolivia, cambodia, georgia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone. this trade sanction was declared by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icsat) because vessels flying the flag of these countries were declared as fishing illegally, unregulated and unreported. given the current situation of tuna fishing and marketing, in particular with regard to valuable species such as bluefin tuna and bigeye tuna, the complexity of iccat measures to control fishing and marketing shows that iuu fishing is still a significant problem for tuna and related species in the atlantic. cambodia was considered by the commission in its decision of 15 november 2012 as a non-cooperating country in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1005/2008 on iuu fishing.
in writing. i voted in favour of the romeva report on the importation into the union of atlantic bigeye tuna from bolivia, cambodia, georgia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone. the best available scientific advice has shown that the conservation of this fishery resource is sufficiently ensured to lift the ban on imports of bigeye tuna from certain states.
in writing. the text ends the ban on the import of bigeye tuna from bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, sierra leone and georgia. we are making it easier for european citizens to access a rare species, while protecting consumer health and promoting sustainable fisheries. the european parliament also reaffirms its willingness to strengthen cooperation with these five countries by welcoming the progress they have made in the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which concerns the establishment of a regulatory framework for the atlantic bigeye tuna fishery. the imposition of import bans on certain countries has had the inevitable consequence of causing some of the vessels to change flags. one of the constraints was to identify the pavilions. the new proposal therefore clarifies the situation and helps to overcome this problem, which i welcome.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague raül romeva i rueda, which incorporates into european law the suspension of the ban on the import of bigeye tuna from bolivia, cambodia, georgia, equatorial guinea and sierra leone. this suspension was initially decided by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, of which the european union is a member, and had to be transposed into european law in order to comply with the international obligations arising from the union's participation in that commission. the report was supported by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. the global craze for japanese cuisine has increased the fishing pressure on tuna. the most well-known case is that of bluefin tuna threatened by overfishing. this is a different species, the obese tuna, but the same logic. the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, a recognised intergovernmental body, considers that the evolution of the stock allows the ban on imports of this species from bolivia and georgia to be lifted. the report follows this recommendation. so from a fisheries resource point of view, i could vote for it. i do not, however, agree with the logic of europe consuming fish caught on the other side of the world. i could therefore vote against. but why maintain the ban on bolivia and georgia, when the ban on cambodia and guinea has been lifted? a madman's way of doing it! i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the protocol between the european union and the gabonese republic setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the protocol between the european union and gabon, which negotiated a new protocol to the fisheries agreement, which entered into force on 24 april 2013 for a period of three years. it offers opportunities for tuna fishing and for migratory species in gabonese waters. the reference tonnage allocated to 27 european union trawlers and 8 liners is 20 000 tonnes. in return for this fishing, the european union pays an annual compensation of eur 1 350 000, of which eur 450 000 is to be used to support gabon's fisheries policy. these financial compensations have been substantially revised upwards compared to the previous protocol which expired in 2011. both sides indicated that they would respect the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, which are in line with the decisions taken at european level under the common fisheries policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ferreira report on the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and gabon. this protocol is balanced: substantial financial gains will be derived from the opportunities that will open up for fishing and it offers significant support to gabon's small-scale fisheries policy. finally, as the report states, i support greater involvement of the european parliament in all phases of the preparation of the protocol or its renewal.
in writing. the text gives parliament's approval to the conclusion of a protocol between the european union and the gabonese republic to increase its fishing opportunities in gabon while respecting the sustainability of this fishery, after more than a year of interruption. this is an additional stimulus for the union's fisheries sector. the text also aims to strengthen eu cooperation with gabon and gives it financial capacity to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and thus the depletion of fish stocks. this is an encouraging step towards helping the good governance of water in third countries.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague joão ferreira on the protocol between the european union and the gabonese republic setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement. the european union and gabon have negotiated a new protocol to the fisheries agreement which entered into force on 24 april 2013. it offers opportunities for tuna fishing and for migratory species in gabonese waters. in return for this fishing, the european union pays an annual compensation. both sides indicated that they would respect the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas which are in line with the decisions taken at european level under the common fisheries policy. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the approval of a protocol between the eu and the gabonese republic which gives european vessels the possibility to fish in gabonese waters in compliance with international rules for the conservation of tuna. this access to gabonese waters is compensated by a financial contribution, which is important because it is intended for the exploitation by gabon of its fisheries resources.
in writing. the protocol stipulates that the eu must respect scientific advice and that european vessels must only fish if there is a catch remaining: the idea is that the europeans do not profit from gabonese fish. this is a positive development, even though the protocol is very vague on the control of these commitments. above all, the union has the capacity and the space to be self-sufficient in fisheries resources. the development of semi-extensive aquaculture, which is reversible and has no significant impact on the environment, is possible. this would be more clever than going fishing off gabon, especially since the persistence of a relict requires that the gabonese do not develop their own fishing skills. it is clear that fishing off the coast of gabon is not essential for the union. the report does not propose to provide scientific support for fisheries management and logistical support for the fight against poaching. it leaves the commission free to validate changes in the quantities and species caught. i'm not going to.
in writing. taking into account the increased geostrategic importance of greenland and the eu arctic, as well as greenland's structural weaknesses, a new partnership is justified and should facilitate consultations and political dialogue. it will focus in particular on areas such as energy, climate change, environment and natural resources. it also includes raw materials and arctic issues, a region which is becoming increasingly crucial for the eu and which is why i support this text.
in writing. i voted for the cortes lastra report on relations between the european union, denmark and greenland.
in writing. i voted for the cortes lastra report in favour of a deep partnership between the european union and greenland on issues of common interest, in particular on the sustainable exploitation and use of natural resources. the adoption of this report will allow european investment in greenland to be increased, while promoting the development of an open and competitive greenlandic economy.
in writing. i have approved the establishment of a new partnership between the european union, on the one hand, and greenland and the kingdom of denmark, on the other. greenland is experiencing a major melting of the ice due to global warming. this climate catastrophe is raising new challenges. greenland is emerging as a new strategic partner with which it is important to increase relations in sectors such as tourism, energy, environmental protection and maritime transport. it is therefore of particular interest that there is good cooperation between the two entities.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague ricardi cortés lastra which sets out the framework for the future of relations between the european union and greenland, including cooperation and financial support for the period 2014-2020. the report nevertheless stresses that any cooperation with greenland in the exploration and exploitation of local natural resources should be carried out only in accordance with the highest standards of safety and environmental protection. i welcome the very wide adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the modalities of cooperation between the eu and greenland and the kingdom of denmark. this new framework will allow for enhanced cooperation between the parties in areas of common interest such as energy, climate and the environment.
in writing. this proposal sets out the new framework for cooperation between greenland and the union for the period 2014-2020, in particular in the fields of education and training, natural resources and energy. the gradual thawing of the ice due to global warming is opening the way for the exploitation of new resources in this area, including gas, oil and mining. the report puts a brake on the commission's "almost obsessive" pursuit of greenland's natural resources. the rapporteur stresses that it is up to greenland, which has limited resources, to decide on the means of exploiting this resource and to define, in compliance with the 'highest social, environmental and safety standards', strict environmental management criteria to ensure the sustainable use of resources and to preserve the precious but fragile ecosystem of the arctic region. in addition, priority for union financial support will be given to programmes for human and social development and education. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which is intended to be parliament's contribution to the debate launched by the commission's green paper on insurance against natural and man-made disasters which raises a number of questions relating to the adequacy and availability of insurance against disasters.
in writing. i voted for the terho report on insurance against natural and man-made disasters. disasters of this kind affect people across borders and better european coordination could make it possible to take better account of the cost of such disasters.
in writing. this text calls for a preventive approach to the management of natural or man-made disasters in europe. these disasters, with their transboundary effects, not only cause many human losses but also cause billions of euros worth of material damage. it is therefore worthwhile to consider insurance schemes in such situations. however, before encouraging consumers to take out such insurance, it seems to me important to ensure that they have all the necessary information about the terms and conditions of these products.
in writing. i voted in favour of this green paper, which aims to assess the relevance or the need for action at union level to improve the functioning of the catastrophe insurance market in the european union. i am aware of the floods last june, which caused a lot of damage in my constituency, and of the violent weather at the end of january, and i am of course vigilant about this problem.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague sampo terho on insurance against natural and man-made disasters. the report calls for preventive and information measures to protect the public and to avoid losses due to unexpected events. the report reiterates that a universal solution is not realistic and stresses that the union must not create contradictions between the different rules on liability. member states are invited to propose incentives to encourage citizens to insure their property against damage and to make risk prevention a pillar of their investment strategy. insurance companies are therefore required to provide clear and comprehensible information. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report calling on the european commission to raise awareness among european citizens about the prevention of natural and man-made disasters. however, the insurance market in this specific area should remain governed by national rules to take account of the approach and culture of each member state.
in writing. the report aims to define what falls within the scope of insurance. the main aim is to make the insurance market more flexible by introducing a 'non-compulsory' framework allowing insurance companies to adapt their products to different conditions which are advantageous to them. the report also considers that individuals who are victims of natural or man-made disasters need to be held accountable and that 'citizens should bear their share of responsibility and compensation should not cover all the damage'. so greed and irresponsibility are offered to insurance companies. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the terho report on insurance against natural or man-made disasters, although i regret that the committee on economic and monetary affairs did not refer the matter to the other committees concerned. the report stresses the need for action at european level in the event of natural or man-made disasters, at least in the fields of information and prevention. it stressed the essential nature of this liability in order to avoid losses due to unforeseen events and reaffirmed that the action of the european union should not replace the liability of third parties who, under the 'polluter pays' principle, are primarily liable for the damage they have caused. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is essential that the union should take account of the liability of shipowners and charterers. as regards insurance-covered losses, it is also necessary that the concept of ecological damage be recognised in european law and that any damage be compensated.
in writing. this report proposes to allow the european economic and social committee, composed of representatives of trade unions, employers' organisations and civil society, to be consulted on the social dimension of economic and monetary union. without any illusions about the limited room for manoeuvre that this committee will have, i nevertheless support this possibility for workers to make their voices (somewhat) heard. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new calendar of parliament's sessions in 2015. i welcome the vote on this calendar, which does not take up the proposal by some members to shorten the periods of plenary sessions of the european parliament in strasbourg.
in writing. the setting of the timetable for its sessions is one of parliament's tasks. i regret that once again this calendar ignores national commemorations as important as those celebrated on 11 november in several countries of the union (france, belgium and the united kingdom), a date of particular importance for the history of europe. or the 14th of july, which opened the "modern era", as the poet goethe put it. this indifference of the parliamentary calendar to history and to the memory which justifies the construction of europe is a lamentable technocratic and bureaucratic artifact.
in writing. i voted for the bowles report on the appointment of the vice-chair of the supervisory committee of the european central bank.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague sharon bowles on the appointment of sabine lautenschläger as vice-chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank. i welcome the adoption of the report.
in writing. before being nominated as vice-chair of the ecb's supervisory board, ms sabine lautenschlager-peery was vice-chair of the deutsche bundesbank, where she was able to demonstrate her budgetary orthodoxy. his candidacy was proposed by berlin to replace jörg asmussen, who entered the german government. it is therefore up to mrs merkel to ensure that the ecb's policy is carried out. in this task, sabine lautenschlager-peery will be able to rely on the other member of the executive board imposed by angela merkel in 2012, the luxembourgish yves mersch. her only advantage would be to be the only woman on the ecb's executive board. that's not enough. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation because it strengthens cooperation on the application of their competition laws by allowing, under certain specific conditions, the commission and the swiss competition commission to exchange confidential information.
in writing. i voted in favour of the cutaş report on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws. this vote came just days before the referendum which tightened the conditions for entry for workers into switzerland.
in writing. in view of the importance of economic relations between the european union and the swiss confederation, i support this text which encourages the conclusion of an agreement between the two parties on the application of competition law. the exchange of information in this field between the swiss confederation and the european union will make it possible to combat anticompetitive practices with cross-border effects on markets more effectively.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague george sabin cutaş on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws. indeed, it is crucial for the regulation of trade and investment abroad to redouble efforts in promoting international cooperation to combat anti-competitive practices. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of approving a new generation agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation to allow both parties to exchange information during anti-competitive investigations. these provisions will improve the implementation of the european competition rules.
in writing. the council's proposal is aimed at further developing a monomaniacal policy of competition between zones. while the desire to deepen cooperation and information sharing between the european union and the swiss confederation is commendable, it is curious that competition policy is given priority in this area. if the conclusion of an agreement with the swiss confederation is an imperative for the european council, why not propose to the swiss confederation, even if it means exchanging information, cooperation and exchanges of information on the banking sector? in general, the obsession with competition at european and world level is worrying and demonstrates the european council's complete ignorance of the economic issues of its time. i vote against it.
in writing. the union's competition policy aims to combat cartels between producers which generally lead to overpriced products, to the detriment of european citizens and businesses. in a world of globalisation and the existence of many international companies, it is important that competition authorities work together and exchange information on unfair practices that may be taking place. this is the whole point of the agreement being negotiated with switzerland and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the union's cooperation agreements on the implementation of competition policy the way forward. that's a good resolution.
in writing. this resolution deals with the european union's cooperation agreements on the implementation of competition policy, in particular the agreement with the swiss confederation. it seems important to emphasize the need for greater cooperation with the european commission in the application of these agreements, which make it possible to enforce the rules of competition at international level.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution by my colleague george sabin cutaş on the european union's cooperation agreements on the application of competition policy. the resolution welcomes the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on cooperation in the enforcement of their competition laws and calls on the commission to submit to parliament a comprehensive institutional agreement between switzerland and the european union in order to ensure the effectiveness of this agreement and to encourage cooperation in the enforcement of competition rules at international level. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the new generation agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation. it is important to note that an important step forward in this agreement is a provision allowing the european commission and the swiss competition commission to exchange confidential information.
in writing. this resolution welcomes the recent competition agreements with the union. while it regrets that these agreements do not impose binding obligations on cooperation, it does not say a word about the sectors which might be affected by such cooperation. the main point is to give 'a higher degree of priority to strengthening the free trade agreements' aspect', again! it's an ideological obsession with him. the resolution therefore calls for a deeper approach to competition policy, but with 'more detailed and frequent information to parliament'. i vote against it.
in writing. i supported this report because it aims to regulate the international trade in conventional arms and to put an end to the illicit arms trade. at a time when so many bloody conflicts are still raging (syria, central african republic, mali, etc.), it is our duty to reduce the arms trade as much as possible.
in writing. i voted for the joint vote on the martin report on the 'arms trade treaty' on the decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interests of the european union, the arms trade treaty. the arms trade must continue to be regulated.
in writing. this text authorises the eu member states to ratify the un arms trade treaty. if only the member states are able to sign and ratify such a treaty, the european union must first give its consent, since international trade is one of its exclusive competences. i welcome the efforts being made to close the existing gaps in the legislation on the trade in arms. it seems to me to be quite unreasonable that the trade in conventional arms is still not subject to a legally binding international instrument.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to give the european union a sufficient legislative arsenal in this area. i also welcome the obligation of transparency imposed on member states in the arms trade, with the obligation for member states to keep a sales register.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague david martin, which authorises member states to ratify the arms trade treaty, drawn up under the auspices of the united nations, in areas which are normally the exclusive competence of the union. i welcome the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ratification by the member states of the international treaty on the trade in conventional arms, which aims to combat the illicit trade in arms.
in writing. the arms trade treaty was adopted on 2 april 2013 by a resolution of the united nations general assembly. it establishes a common international standard to regulate international trade in conventional arms and, to some extent, ammunition and their parts and components. it also aims to prevent and eliminate the illicit trade in such weapons. i support the un as the international framework for the organization of relations between states. however, the european union is here to give the states the right to ratify the treaty. what a startling transfer of sovereignty! the member states should decide for themselves whether or not to sign such a treaty of a royal nature. i vote against this abuse of power and this transfer of sovereignty has a totally acquired level at the behest of nato and the united states.
in writing. since the european union is not a party to the united nations, it is the member states, in accordance with the interests of the union, which must sign and ratify the treaties proposed by the un. the arms trade treaty (att) is a major step forward in regulating the trade in conventional arms and certain munitions and in eradicating the illicit trade in arms at international level. although the current eu legislation is more binding than the att, it is nevertheless important for the eu and its member states. i am therefore very pleased to have voted in favour of this report, especially as it emphasizes good cooperation between the member states and the european institutions. the opinion of the european parliament is important when an international agreement is signed. this opinion, which is highlighted in this report, is followed by the member states, which proves that there is a certain harmony in the union, although some people may say otherwise.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution calling on member states to ratify the international arms trade treaty (itta) as soon as possible. the trade in conventional arms is not currently covered by any legally binding international instrument. the un-negotiated treaty should therefore establish an international standard for regulating the trade in conventional arms and ammunition and their parts and components. it also aims to prevent and eliminate the illicit trade in such weapons. the shortcomings and limited scope of the treaty (nothing on tear gas, drones or military technology, for example) can be deplored, especially since eu regulation on conventional arms exports sets much higher standards and has a wider scope than the att. however, a rapid ratification of this treaty by all the member states of the union will send a message to third countries which have not yet ratified the protocol, such as the united states. it is also to be expected that some member states, notably france, will not be among the main arms suppliers in the world.
in writing. i supported this report because it aims to regulate the international trade in conventional arms and to put an end to the illicit arms trade. at a time when so many bloody conflicts are still raging (syria, central african republic, mali, etc.), it is our duty to reduce the arms trade as much as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the arms trade treaty.
in writing. this resolution rightly highlights the benefits of the conclusion of the un convention on international trade in conventional arms. it is the first legally binding instrument in this field, although it is regrettable that a common definition of the concept of conventional weapons is not introduced. i welcome the conclusion of such an agreement, which will, in particular, allow for better control of arms trade in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the arms trade treaty, drawn up within the framework of the united nations, which aims to regulate the international trade in conventional arms and to eliminate the illicit trade in arms. the aim is also to ensure that arms exports are controlled by the parties so that they are not used for terrorism or human rights abuses. i welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the arms trade treaty. the treaty will require signatory countries to establish a national regime for the control of arms transfers. transfers are prohibited if the member state knows that the weapons will be used to commit war crimes.
in writing. the arms trade treaty was adopted on 2 april 2013 by a resolution of the united nations general assembly. it establishes a common international standard to regulate international trade in conventional arms and, to some extent, ammunition and their parts and components. this un treaty is obviously a good thing, although it is regrettable that depleted uranium munitions (produced by france and the united states) are not included. this tells us a lot about the kind of pressures that this text has been under and is preparing to undergo. i am voting for this report to encourage the ratification of this treaty, which sets an international standard to which the united states, often lecturers on human rights, has still not subscribed.
in writing. the european union's anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures are essential because they allow the union to protect its producers from unfair competition by taxing imports of foreign products placed on the market at prices below production costs (dumping) or following the collection of subsidies to crush competitors. the procedure for these anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures is very useful, but can be improved in its efficiency (speed, effect, etc.), so i voted for this report.
in writing. i voted for the modernisation of trade defence instruments. you know, the far right thinks that by closing our borders and barricading ourselves behind tariffs we're going to get growth back. it's obvious, even without a degree in economics, that this is not the answer. but while we are fighting on the world market, we must not let ourselves be carried away, and that is the aim of the european institutions. smes are given priority in international competition to help them combat social dumping by their non-european competitors. the duties will be increased only on subsidised or dumped imports. other instruments are complementing these arrangements in order to make europe, the world's leading market, a commercial power capable of defending itself.
in writing. the aim of this text is to strengthen european legislation to combat dumping and subsidies by non-eu countries by adapting it to the new economic framework. the european parliament has voted to assert its position and to give itself strong instruments to continue negotiations with the other institutions of the european union. it is essential that the european union succeeds in putting in place strong legislation enabling our companies to defend themselves against dumping and subsidy measures from non-eu countries. it is therefore particularly important to pay special attention to smes, which are more vulnerable on the international market. the sme helpdesk which offers assistance to these companies should therefore be promoted to help them, for example, to lodge a complaint.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to amend the basic anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations for non-eu countries. i therefore welcome the european union's desire to improve transparency and predictability in trade for economic operators.
in writing. in the face of unfair and formidable trade attacks on our european businesses and industries i remember the chinese solar panel case, which resulted in retaliation by our partner on european wine the european union decided to reform its trade policy, which had not been substantially amended for more than 15 years. in order to better protect and arm our businesses in a global environment where economic reality does not allow for virtuous and respectful practices, the european parliament has taken the view that our economic apparatus should be equipped with defence tools against imports which are dumped and subsidised by third countries. these are the first steps towards responsible reform, which i welcome. i now expect the european commission and the council to move forward as quickly as possible on this major project, which has enormous implications for the economies of the member states.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague christofer fjellner on the trade defence instruments used by the european union to protect european companies against the distortions of competition caused by dumping or subsidising products from third countries. in particular, this report improves the visibility of companies by informing them of any provisional anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures before the imposition of duties and creates a dedicated help service for smes to inform them on how to use the trade defence instruments. this service would help them to lodge complaints and to provide evidence of dumping and injury caused by unfair importation. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of modernising the eu's trade defence instruments, including anti-dumping. the objective here is twofold. first, we must adapt these instruments, which have been awaiting reform for 15 years, to the new global trade challenges, whether in terms of social, environmental and commercial dumping or counterfeiting. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to provide the necessary information to the commission to enable it to assess the likelihood of continuation of dumping. on the other hand, we wanted to give all our many smes access to these trade defence instruments so that they could face international competition with more tools. this dossier was therefore particularly important, not to take refuge behind new barriers, but to show all our realism and our combativeness in the face of international competition which is intensifying on a global scale, with the assertion of new commercial powers such as china, brazil or india.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which emphasises the access of smes to trade defence instruments, which have been disadvantaged by the cost and complexity of anti-dumping investigations. for example, a helpdesk should help smes to lodge complaints and provide information on procedures.
in writing. what might appear to be a breakthrough in european trade policy in the fight against dumping is far from being up to the challenge of the ravages caused by free trade, of which the european union, and the commission in particular, remains a zealous promoter. the recent treatment of chinese solar panel imports is proof of this: while chinese products occupy 80% of the european market and 25,000 jobs in a strategic sector have been destroyed, the timid commission proposal was withdrawn immediately after china threatened to retaliate. the rapporteur is helping to reduce the few achievements of the text; it opposed the application of the anti-dumping duty in its entirety, even if limited to the raw material market, stressing that most of the goods exported by the companies were derived from imported intermediate goods. in this connection, it does not fail to recall that dumping is not a practice prohibited by the wto, only 'harmful' dumping is. i vote against it.
in writing. it was essential for the european union to modernise its trade defence instruments to adapt them to the current global trading environment. it is not protectionist to want to guarantee that our companies operate in an international environment conducive to fair trade. this instrument, which we so badly needed, will enable the union to act quickly when competition from third countries does not respect the rules of international trade. i am very pleased to have fought for this report to be adopted in such a way that european companies are assured of operating in the best possible commercial environment. the report places particular emphasis on support for smes, which, in the current economic crisis, are particularly affected by unfair competition from third countries. they must be able to use this instrument in the same way as other european companies. ensuring a prosperous future for european businesses also requires the modernisation of the union's trade defence instruments.
in writing. this reform is simply necessary: nothing has changed since 1995. while our trade defence instruments remain relevant in substance, several recent cases, including that of chinese solar panels, have shown that they are no longer always appropriate to the global trading environment. the amendments we have adopted today will better equip our companies against all forms of dumping: commercial, social and environmental. we also wanted to modernise the existing european regulations in a very concrete way. for example, by facilitating access to cids for small and medium-sized enterprises or by reducing the time taken for investigations in order to increase their legal certainty. i now expect the european commission, which started its work very late and imposed a tight timetable on us, and the council to get to work very quickly. our common objective must be to see these modernised idcs come into force as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this reform of the 'european trade defence instruments' (etdi) to combat unfair competition from certain imports, the most exemplary case being chinese solar panels. these instruments will enable europe to unilaterally increase customs duties to offset the dumping of highly subsidized products by our commercial competitors. the aim of this revision is also to better equip our companies against all forms of unfair competition: economic, social or environmental.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on defence against dumped imports. the text thus modernises the european anti-dumping procedure, which is one of the main tools used by the eu to regulate imports and protect its market on the basis of international trade rules. with this text we are strictly regulating this practice, reserving the possibility of introducing or increasing taxes on products when they arrive on the european continent. this will enable european countries to promote products made in europe and to safeguard jobs on european soil.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. european production is in competition with producers in third countries whose social and environmental standards are much lower than ours. the result is unfair competition for our businesses and jobs, downward pressure on our requirements and a deindustrialisation of the union. this report sets out important steps to enable europe to impose stricter duties on imports that do not meet adequate social and environmental standards. in addition, it takes into account the difficulty for smes to participate in anti-dumping investigations by offering a service to help smes. this is a step forward, but there is still a long way to go to protect our industries, our workers and our environment and to ensure the sustainability of the european model of sustainable development: producing efficiently while respecting people and ecosystems.
in writing. under wto rules, dumping is illegal if it is injurious and the evidence of such injury is to be provided by the victim. today, 50% of the eu's imports are intermediate goods and the globalisation of the value chain has exploded in recent years. moreover, the abandonment of our current industries and technology transfers will prevent any return of european competitiveness in the open world market. the european commission is struggling to respond to the damage caused by social or environmental dumping or illegal subsidies as a result of retaliatory measures by third countries, who are supposed to be our trading partners. the basis of international trade as defined by the european commission, the wto's pawn, needs to be revised. while third countries and those considered to be emerging (russia, china) benefit from the wide opening of our markets, theirs remain inaccessible for our products or services.
in writing. i voted in favour of this technical report which, following the many reforms of the common fisheries policy, seeks to put in place effective control mechanisms to ensure that the new provisions are properly complied with both at union and member state level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on compliance with the cfp rules. the commission has proposed a strict alignment of the control regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 with the lisbon treaty so that parliament can use all the new powers conferred on it by the lisbon treaty since 2009. parliament is keen to ensure that the delegation of power proposed by the european commission is not for an indefinite period but for a limited period of three years. no amendments to the substance of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 were accepted in the compromise amendments proposed by the rapporteur. the new powers of parliament were underlined.
in writing. the lisbon treaty gave the european commission the power to adopt delegated acts, allowing for amendments to non-essential elements of legislative acts, and implementing acts. in order to ensure the consistency of european legislation, it seems to me important to adapt the legislative act on compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy in accordance with these new powers of the commission. however, the european parliament should have ex-post control over those delegated acts.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague isabelle thomas which aims to improve the methods of monitoring compliance with the common fisheries policy, in particular as regards catch quotas, data collection and traceability. i therefore welcome the broad adoption of this report.
in writing. the proposals in this report aim, on the one hand, to harmonise the rules between european fishermen, a position which i support. the amendments also limit the use of delegated acts to the more technical implementing act, which leaves less room for manoeuvre. however, despite the report's intention to limit the waiver of power, the share left to the commission's initiative for the adoption of delegated acts is far too significant. the scope of those acts can only be reviewed ex post after three years. i'm not going to.
in writing. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, fisheries policy has been subject to the so-called co-decision procedure of the council and the european parliament. the regulations in this area must therefore be brought into line with the treaties. this is the subject of the regulation adopted by the european parliament on compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. the main issue is the distribution of powers between the various institutions and the disputes over this distribution of powers between the co-legislators, which are not lacking. the commission's powers are to be defined and to be able to decide when it may make use of delegated or implementing acts. i therefore voted against because, in addition to giving the commission additional powers, the text proposes, even worse, to change several delegated acts into simple implementing acts, which significantly reduces the european parliament's decision-making power. the council has not had the opportunity to play its part as co-decision-maker in this area and has failed to preserve a common fisheries policy worthy of the name.
in writing. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 january 2009, european legislation must be gradually brought into line with the new provisions of the treaty. the report is purely technical in nature and ensures that this is done in an appropriate manner. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to adapt existing european legislation on equipment and protective systems intended for use in explosive atmospheres. the european union needs a certain degree of coherence and legal certainty in its internal market, which requires changes in its legislation. i am in particular in favour of strengthening consumer protection for these products, which should include safety information and clear labelling.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which establishes a clear definition at european level of protective equipment and systems intended for use in explosive atmospheres. moreover, the increased requirement for traceability for all economic operators reinforces the basic objective of security, which i welcome.
in writing. i support this text which harmonises the provisions on the placing on the market and control of explosives for civil use at european level. it was also essential to clarify the common definition of the term 'explosives'. in view of the dangerous nature of these products, member states should ensure that the placing on the market of explosives for civil use is subject to appropriate measures concerning their storage and use.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is part of the 'harmonisation package'. i therefore welcome the safety obligation on member states to inform other states whenever a non-compliant explosive is identified.
in writing. this text, like several others tabled during this part-session of the european parliament, aims to adapt the european framework for the marketing of a number of products to the lisbon treaty. to do this, several previous directives need to be revised. in this particular case, it is the control of explosives for civilian use. it is therefore essentially a technical text which does not alter the previous legislation, particularly as regards the content of the safety requirements. parliament also took the opportunity to remind the various economic operators active in this sector of their obligations with regard to the traceability and labelling of products. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which advocates legal certainty and increased consumer protection, improves technical safety requirements, product instructions and labelling and ensures better market surveillance.
in writing. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 january 2009, european legislation must be gradually brought into line with the new provisions of the treaty. the report is purely technical in nature and ensures that this is done in an appropriate manner. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this text adapts the european legislation on non-automatic weighing instruments. it is rightly aimed at removing previous inconsistencies which could be a source of legal uncertainty on the european market. in order to ensure the safe circulation of non-automatic weighing instruments on the market, member states should take measures against misuse and incorrect application of the rules on ce marking.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is part of the 'harmonisation package', and i therefore encourage the european union's drive to modernise electronic equipment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which approximates european legislation on electromagnetic compatibility. however, in the context of the amendment of the legislation in force, it seems to me legitimate to provide in particular for a transitional regime favourable to economic operators for the making available on the market and the putting into service of appliances already placed on the market in accordance with the previous legislation. they should be able to sell their existing stock of equipment, so that they do not suffer from legal instability.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to modernise electromagnetic compatibility. the respect of security requirements and the desire for data transparency reflect a better consideration of this issue by the european union.
in writing. this text aligns european legislation on electrical equipment intended for use within certain voltage limits with the new legislative framework. the need to ensure a high level of protection for the most vulnerable consumers is rightly emphasised. where the equipment is not intended for professional use, placing on the market must be conditional upon ease of use for all.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which concerns electrical equipment intended for use within a certain voltage limit. the increase in the safety of these materials and the desire to ensure transparency for the consumer are all positive elements which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of this technical report because it aims to improve the internal market and will allow the establishment of a common framework for the marketing of products.
in writing. i support this text which harmonises the provisions on lifts and safety components for lifts at european level. it seems to me particularly consistent that in the event of non-compliance of these products with the legislation, appropriate restrictive measures, such as withdrawal from the market, should be taken as soon as possible. these measures are necessary to strengthen the protection of european citizens.
in writing. this text adapts the current european legislation on simple pressure vessels. i think it is particularly important to reduce the excessive bureaucratic burden in this area. this requires modernisation of existing procedures so that the eu declaration of conformity is available not only in paper form but also in electronic form.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which contains many safeguards for consumers. the proposal has the effect of improving the competitiveness of notified bodies and undertakings which comply with their obligations seriously, as compared with those which circumvent the system. in addition, this text does not represent a major cost for economic operators and notified bodies, which i welcome.
in writing. i support this text which aligns the measuring instruments directive with the new european legislative framework. in order to strengthen consumer protection on the european market, cases of distance selling by economic operators should also be subject to such legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is part of the 'harmonisation package'. i welcome the obligation of traceability for all economic operators, including the names and addresses of manufacturers, which will further enhance consumer safety.
in writing. i voted for the eight roithova reports because the technical alignment of these directives mainly concerns: a) measures to combat the non-compliance of products: obligations for economic operators (manufacturers, importers, distributors), traceability requirements, market surveillance; (b) measures to improve the quality of the work of notified bodies assessing compliance with european union requirements (notification requirements, obligation to provide information on refusals, restrictions, etc. on certificates); (c) measures ensuring consistency between directives (alignment of definitions and terminology, alignment of provisions on conformity assessment procedures).
in writing. i supported the eight reports by my colleague zuzana roithova, which follow the publication by the european commission of the alignment package on the new legislative framework. the technical alignment of these eight directives (the directive on equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres, the directive on explosives for civil use, the directive on non-automatic weighing instruments, the directive on electromagnetic compatibility, the directive on electrical equipment for use within certain voltage limits, the directive on lifts and safety components for lifts, the directive on single pressure vessels and the directive on measuring instruments) mainly concerns measures to combat non-compliance of products, measures to strengthen the quality of the work of notified bodies assessing the conformity of products with the requirements of the european union, and measures to ensure consistency between directives. these reports have been widely adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. i voted in favour of the package of eight reports introducing technical alignment on product safety and enhanced market surveillance. the effectiveness of european legislation on health and safety protection will be enhanced by these amendments for each of the sectors concerned.
in writing. the eight reports in the harmonisation package amend the directives on product harmonisation as part of the implementation of the new legislative framework adopted in 2008. this is to address the shortcomings in the existing union harmonisation legislation. the adoption of these texts will strengthen producer and consumer confidence by clarifying the obligations of economic operators. it will also provide member state authorities with more effective tools to carry out market surveillance checks, which will lead to an overall reduction in non-compliant and dangerous products on the market. nevertheless, the aim is as always to achieve the internal market by promoting competition. i'm not going to.
in writing. the adoption of the bach report confirms the european parliament's strong position in favour of air passenger rights, at a time when the market is now fully open and airlines are benefiting from a strong increase in traffic. parliament called for compensation for delays in proportion to the duration of the flight or for better care to be given to passengers who cannot board. we also ask for greater price transparency when booking, since the price initially displayed must include hand and hold baggage, the price of payment by credit card or check-in. i hope that the council will now follow this ambitious line.
in writing. i voted in favour of adopting this parliament's position at first reading. the growth of air traffic benefits everyone but must not be at the expense of respect for the rights of everyone. of course, there are already rights, but they are still difficult for passengers to understand, who too often find themselves helpless when faced with difficulties such as cancellation or delay of their flight, loss of luggage or denied boarding. today we want to strengthen and clarify these rights. some airlines do not play the game and willfully ignore passenger complaints or misuse "extraordinary circumstances" to evade their compensation obligations. this new legislation must be made for passengers and will put an end to these abusive practices. i welcome the adoption of the position advocated by parliament. i believe that this is the only way to create a 'single european sky' which is both competitive and protective of travellers. i hope that the member states will pay attention to the need to strengthen passenger rights, as we are asking for today.
in writing. i voted in favour of this new regulation to support the introduction of a right to financial compensation for european citizens which airlines will have to respect in the event of delays or cancellations. the airlines will no longer be able to refuse passengers compensation on the grounds of 'extraordinary circumstances' or 'technical problems' which they alone have so far defined, and which in reality lead to widespread abuse. the text also puts an end to the questionable commercial practices of some low-cost airlines in their rules on hand luggage. finally, i very much welcome the special attention given to vulnerable passengers, such as children or disabled people. the ball is now in the council's court and i hope it will be as ambitious as parliament has been.
in writing. who has not been concerned about losing luggage or facing a delayed or cancelled flight, given the difficulties in winning a case? despite improvements in the conditions for reimbursement and compensation, these are not applied uniformly by airlines, which take advantage of the approximation of definitions in european legislation to justify a non-receipt order. i am pleased that the european parliament has supported this new package of measures for better protection of air passenger rights with a large majority. airlines will no longer be able to abuse the 'extraordinary circumstances' to refuse reimbursement. the report provides a clear definition of this concept and also sets thresholds for compensation in the event of cancellation, delay or denied boarding. the report also recommends that passengers be allowed to bring coats, handbags or at least shopping bags to the airport on all flights, in addition to the maximum baggage allowance.
in writing. while the parliament's text makes some improvements to the commission's text, it does not mention or even add to certain provisions of the original text. thus, damages caused by bird impacts are included in the extraordinary circumstances which exempt air carriers from compensating passengers. this is a common cause of flight delays and cancellations. the introduction of the directive in the text therefore means that the users have to bear the costs. above all, parliament endorses the introduction of labour disputes in exceptional circumstances. this means that the financial consequences of social movements are borne by the users and not by the transport operators, and therefore neutralizes the balance of forces established by the outbreak of a strike. this is completely unacceptable. it's a violation of the right to strike. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of a flight. although this report falls short of what might be expected in terms of protecting air passengers' rights, it contains significant improvements over the commission's initial draft. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. this text provides for a better balance between the rights of airlines and those of passengers. the european union must realise that passengers are not only consumers governed by the law of king money alone, but also citizens with rights to assert vis-à-vis the carriers. and the right to mobility must be moved from the logic of competition dominated by the law of supply and demand to a logic of rights, of the fight against discrimination and equality.
in writing. after intensive negotiations, we succeeded in adopting the regulation on air passenger rights by making the positions of my political family prevail. the big winners are all travellers who fly from outside the european union. passengers travelling to the eu on board a european airline will also be able to benefit from these preferential rights. for example, they will no longer have to carry their personal effects and duty free purchases in a single suitcase. this travesty of some airlines, which try to make passengers pay by forcing them to put everything they carry in the hold, will now be banned! in addition, the right to board is now guaranteed to persons who have purchased a return ticket and who will no longer be denied boarding on the return journey on the grounds that they missed the outward flight. the text also clarifies the issue of delayed compensation: for example, all intra-eu flights delayed by 3 hours will be entitled to financial compensation of at least eur 300. i hope that the council will now follow our wishes and not seek to undermine the rights of passengers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the 2000 council regulation on insolvency proceedings. it became necessary to revise that regulation to allow its practical application. its scope does not cover certain national procedures for restructuring a pre-insolvency company or procedures which maintain the existing management. concerns have arisen as to which member state is competent to open insolvency proceedings. the rules on the publicity of insolvency proceedings and the production of claims also needed to be clarified. finally, the specific rules on the insolvency of multinational groups of companies had to be taken into account, as a large number of crossborder insolvency cases involve groups of companies.
in writing. i voted for the lehne report on the proposal for a regulation on insolvency proceedings. the aim is to vote on the european parliament's position with a view to adoption at second reading, since no agreement could be reached with the council at this stage.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to reform european legislation on crossborder insolvency of companies in order to strengthen the internal market of the european union. i support better harmonisation of national legislation in this area to ensure fair competition and legal certainty for businesses in europe. the proposal to create a european insolvency register to check whether insolvency proceedings have been opened in a member state or not seems to me to be relevant.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to clarify crossborder insolvency cases. one of the major challenges of the european single market is to resolve this type of dispute, which is increasingly being resolved through the use of private international law. in addition, the proposal allows for the introduction of standardised forms available in all the official languages of the european union, which facilitates the production of claims for foreign creditors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague klaus-heiner lehne, which aims to clarify crossborder insolvency procedures, since national laws vary widely from one member state to another. by allowing synergy between the procedures opened in the member states and by establishing interconnected insolvency registers to facilitate the circulation of information, the text promotes better handling of insolvency situations in the european union. i therefore welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. the insolvency regulation establishes a european framework for crossborder insolvency proceedings. it applies where a debtor, whether a natural or a legal person, has assets or creditors in more than one member state. the report recommends the creation of a european insolvency register which would enable creditors and courts to determine whether or not insolvency proceedings have been opened in another member state. this includes the introduction of procedures to help debtors in serious financial difficulties recover, so as to help healthy businesses survive and give entrepreneurs a second chance. it also helps to combat organised insolvency. i vote for it.
in writing. ukrainian protesters are facing violent repression from the authorities. the european union must act to ensure that freedom of expression is respected. under the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership, the eu opened up to a ukraine whose foreign and trade policy was swinging either towards russia or towards europe. the radical turn of the yanukovych government in refusing to sign the eu-ukraine negotiating agreement was a bombshell. ukrainians recognise european values and see the eu as a partner capable of improving their daily lives. in addition, the eastern partnership recognises the importance of cooperation with civil society. ukrainian citizens understood this and put it into practice by asserting their right to contribute to the politics of their country. as europeans we must act when a neighbouring people, sharing the same values of freedom of expression and democracy, calls on us for help. violence against protesters must stop, the process of revising the constitution must continue and new free and fair elections must be held. if the ukrainian people want more europe, let us give them the opportunity to get more europe without being threatened by a recalcitrant government.
i call on the presidency of the council and on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the high representative, mrs ashton, i would like to reiterate our deep concern at the crisis in the central african republic (car) and to stress the urgent need to protect the population. this country continues to experience a great crisis. insecurity is widespread almost everywhere, as are human rights violations. the humanitarian situation is alarming. this is a humanitarian crisis. the social fabric has been disrupted, further fuelling intercommunal tensions, which are being politically exploited and leading to 'an eye for an eye' type of killings between the christian and muslim populations. public institutions that were already weak and operating at the limit of their potential have ceased to function completely. we are now faced not with a state which is weak, but with a vacuum in which it is difficult to say that there is a state. as restoring security is the key to protecting the civilian population and stabilising the situation in order to support the political process, it is obvious that there is no military solution to this conflict. the current crisis stems from decades of lack of political consensus, daunting challenges to governance and unbalanced socioeconomic development. the european union has been actively involved, since the beginning of the current crisis in late december 2012, in order to help prevent a full-scale conflict. following the violent seizure of power by seleka rebel groups in march 2013, the european union supported regional and international efforts to find a political solution to the crisis and to help stabilise the country. the european union has responded swiftly and comprehensively to the current crisis, fully supporting the french initiative and intervention. the union's response, which combines support for stability and development, is evidence of the european union's ability to respond to major crises such as this one quickly and efficiently, with all the means at its disposal. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative, in particular through the european solidarity corps, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu aid volunteers initiative. let me point out three key elements which we consider essential for a way out of the crisis in the central african republic: firstly, security must be restored, starting with the capital and then extending to the wider region. the union fully supports the african mission mission mission in afghanistan (misca) and welcomes the support provided by the french operation sangaris to restore law and order in accordance with the un security council resolution. we also consider the bilateral assistance provided by member states of the european union to be very important. in view of the urgent priority of restoring a security environment, the eu foreign affairs council has decided to extend the mandate of the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to include the eu high representative for the common foreign and security policy. on 20 january, the council adopted a political decision to begin preparations for an eu military operation in the central african republic. the decision was taken after taking into account the continuing situation of lawlessness and insecurity in much of the country and the common desire to improve security so that urgently needed humanitarian aid can be given to those who really need it. the european operation is intended to complement the efforts of misca and the french forces. it underlines the union's readiness to respond in a comprehensive manner. i am pleased that the un security council unanimously adopted resolution 2134 (2014) on 28 january, granting the authorisation for the eu operation in the central african republic. the african union also welcomed this eu operation under the csdp. i am particularly pleased as greek foreign minister because the headquarters of this operation is in larissa, a greek city, where we have very close and good cooperation with the french armed forces, which are the backbone of this operation, the bulk of the military personnel and know-how. secondly, it is necessary to reconstitute a political process. in this context, the appointment of new transitional authorities, following transparent consultations, and the balanced composition of the new government in relation to the various communities are positive signs. moreover, the head of the transitional authority has a strong background in human rights and mediation, so we have a unique opportunity to advance the political transition process, the cooperation of all parties to end the violence and the country's march towards elections by february 2015 at the latest. the eu stands ready, in good coordination with partners, to assist the new government in advancing the transition process. while elections are necessary to restore the legitimacy of the authorities and constitutional order, the international response should always go one step further to ensure a sustainable response to the instability that is re-emerging in the car; there's a vicious circle. thirdly, these initiatives must be combined with humanitarian efforts to help those in need. on 20 january, the un and the eu chaired an international high level meeting which raised almost $500 million for humanitarian and development assistance. this is a positive development, but i must stress that the improvement of humanitarian coverage and the resumption of development aid are directly linked to positive developments which must be made in security matters. we believe that the speed with which we act is essential to support the transitional authorities, to re-establish order and to normalise the political process. we will continue to support the humanitarian, stabilization and political process and to contribute to the creation of the conditions for sustainable development. the necessary medium-term objective is to rebuild the state structures and institutions and support long-term socioeconomic recovery, within the framework of an overall agenda for consolidating the state and peace in the country. eu action will bring real added value to international efforts to stabilise the country by building on the union's long-standing relationship with the car and its instruments in an integrated approach.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr minister, you have rightly pointed out that there is no military solution to the chaos in central africa. however, it is regrettable that, while one of the members of the european union is engaged militarily on the ground, the european union has not been able to provide collective support in a crisis that was nevertheless largely foreseeable and anticipated. this is a new missed opportunity for europeans militarily and we are forced today to go up in a hurry - i was going to say after the battle, but not quite, because the challenges are still very important - this mission to give a little european color to something that should have been from the beginning. however, beyond this disappointment, it is necessary to emphasize the primary responsibilities of the member states. this problem will be raised again in the composition of the mission which is being set up, and i shall come back to it in a moment, but we cannot be satisfied with the fact that the member states, and in particular the most important of them, with the exception of france, are not interested in this type of commitment. i take this opportunity to welcome your country, greece, which will be participating with supplies, including for the headquarters. i also welcome estonia, which is making a remarkable and announced effort to send troops, but i wonder about the major countries of the european union. some of them say we are now beginning a shift to be more active diplomatically and militarily. we can only welcome this, but i expect it to be translated into action, and the central african republic is one of the examples where there should be much stronger european solidarity. i am also a little concerned when i hear that we are going to be using a large number of partner countries, third countries, for this european mission. i welcome the fact that non-eu partner states are leading players in our operations under the common security and defence policy, but i also see a military operation in bosnia with turkey as the main contributor and we will have an operation in the central african republic tomorrow with a caucasian country probably as one of the main contributors. i think that all this is not very serious, and does not give the impression of commitment and solidarity on the part of the countries of the european union, which are up to the challenge. i therefore strongly urge that this european solidarity be exercised well in advance of crises, and that it also be exercised more voluntarily by the large states which have the capacity to carry out this type of mission. let me conclude with a thought for all that the european union does in the humanitarian field that is not sufficiently mentioned. once again, the european union is the main contributor of humanitarian and development aid to the central african republic. to all those who are making the slightly too hasty judgment of the european union and its absence from the international scene, i think it should always be reminded that it remains the main contributor in this area, which is also important.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to pay particular tribute to the decisive action taken by our high representative on the central african conflict. together with the french government, it has been able to mobilise the member states so that the european union can make an active contribution to stabilising the situation. the united nations resolution 2134 now gives full legitimacy to the rapid deployment of this european force. why is this necessary? first, because from a strictly security point of view, the days are passing and the gruesome toll of victims of interreligious violence is making the worst of it. secondly, because the million internally displaced persons and the low expected harvests this year pose a real humanitarian risk. the eu and un have recently raised €366 million, which is expected to cover 90% of the central african republic's humanitarian needs by 2014. finally, because in this context, the political transition currently under way is an extremely dangerous operation. the formation of the government is bound to disappoint as the seleka have already promised that they will not remain idle forever if they are removed from power and the cycle of reprisals continues. that is why our diplomatic efforts must be directed towards supporting the initiatives taken by the african union and the economic community of central african states to revive political dialogue.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that we are able to discuss the situation in the central african republic. i have heard mr danjean and mr michel speak and i agree with them fully, but i would point out that this conflict is often presented as a purely ethnic and religious conflict. but if you look closely, as we have already seen, it is really a failure of the state, a failure of economic development, and in these african countries, very often when they are very rich in natural resources, and we see it, whether it is gold, diamond, oil or uranium, it is always the curse of resources. as a proof of this, when we listened to bishop dieudonné nzapalainga and imam omar kobine layama, who represent the christian and muslim communities and who have met with many heads of state, including mr cameron and mr hollande, they said that what is happening in the central african republic is not a religious conflict at all. the seleka and anti-balaka fighters are often, to a large extent, mercenaries whose only goal is the appropriation of natural resources, guided by private interests. twenty years after european countries allowed a foreseeable genocide to take place in rwanda, and even as the trial of one of the genocidal perpetrators is now under way in paris, i cannot help but be annoyed to hear that some european heads of state refuse to intervene for fear of losing soldiers in the fighting. this selfishness is not one of the founding values of europe. the italian president, mr napolitano, yesterday in his speech urged us to fight against national egoism, and i congratulate him on that. the european union's intervention is essential to restore peace in the central african republic. moreover, how do you expect france - and me as a frenchman - to stop being haunted by the demons of françafrique if europe does not play its part? france has already been isolated in the war in mali. we need a europe of defence now more than ever. i would like to remind you that europe has had a european tactical grouping in operation since 2007 to provide the european union with means of rapid military response abroad. we have 1,500 men ready to deploy in just five days to ensure respect for life and our values. why haven't we ever mobilized them? is it because of the council's lack of political will? so i think our citizens, like our partners, expect us to act. all that remains is for us to take our convictions into action!
madam president, the central african republic has been in chaos since march 2013, when a heterogeneous muslim-dominated seleka coalition overthrew the legal power of president bozizé. the months-long persecution of a predominantly christian population has led to a cycle of interfaith killings. the french intervention, with the emergency projection of 1,600 men, with its share of sacrifices also, made it possible to greatly limit these killings and to repel the seleka. but whereas the un estimates that 10,000 men would be needed to stabilize a country torn apart by ethnic and religious strife, the european union promises us 500 men. ladies and gentlemen, this make-up operation is intended to make it appear that our european partners are in solidarity with the french effort and that mrs ashton is of some use. it would be more useful to provide the french army with a financial contribution to the cost of this operation and i fully agree with mr van orden. france and its army know this country and have enough to do to avoid being hampered by small european contingents who are not french-speaking and unprepared for the african terrain. let us let the european nations act where they have a historical vocation to intervene, where they have know-how, and let us stop parasitizing their effective action by adding to the dangers of the militias that of european officials.
madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to pay tribute to the political courage of the president of the french republic, françois hollande, and also to the french military personnel who, by their work, have avoided a bloodbath that was, however, announced. the question is whether the european union is up to the task of dealing with the situation in the central african republic as it exists today. we must note a breakthrough in the european council, which approved the first european military action in over six years. unfortunately, only six of the 28 member states are now prepared to provide the troops that the central africans most urgently need. eventually, 10,000 men will be needed to bring security to this country. but even with the promise of 500 more men, the french, european and african forces number about 6,000 today. i still see a lack of awareness on the part of europeans of the security emergency in the central african republic. but in addition to security, we must now win peace and ensure that we can develop the rule of law and public services, which are at their minimum level in this country. yes, the european union must be reinforced in the central african republic alongside france!
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, may i say how much i appreciate the role the european parliament has played in the search for a solution to this unprecedented crisis. we take all the comments, remarks and ideas expressed in plenary very seriously, and this is particularly true now, when addressing this unprecedented crisis which the situation in syria is imposing on all of us. let me start by addressing some of your questions and suggestions while we continue to reflect on some others. concerning the humanitarian conference, let me make it absolutely clear that we have that very much on our minds. at the same time, we have to take into account the effort of the united nations that has recently been launched under the auspices of un-ocha with the support of the european union and the member states. a high-level humanitarian group has met several times, most recently on monday in rome (i have referred to this), and commissioner kristalina georgieva attended this meeting. so we need to avoid duplication and work in a coordinated way. my colleague kristalina misses no opportunity to use the foreign affairs council to raise this issue. we are working together on the idea of the trust fund which would be devoted to syria and run by the european union. maybe that could be a good opportunity to come back to the idea of an eu humanitarian conference. concerning the issue of the consular office in erbil, let me just mention that this is the member states’ responsibility. concerning the question of mr belder, we will provide him with written answers. i would only like to say that in the political dialogue which will take place on monday, with cathy ashton on our side and ahmet davutoğlu, the turkish foreign minister and his new colleague, the european minister of turkey, on the other, we will definitely also be talking about syria and the cooperation between the eu and turkey. concerning the question on chemical weapons, there has been, i hope, quite a full and comprehensive reply to a number of parliamentary questions. let me conclude by underlining our most important ongoing efforts to assist syrians in need. firstly, while the first round of negotiations did not produce results, the european union is committed to assist in all ways possible the parties and organisers in sustaining the effort started on 21 january in montreux. secondly, i would like to re-emphasise that the european union will continue in its humanitarian efforts and press all parties to allow the unhindered delivery of humanitarian aid and country-wide medical care in syria, ensure respect of international humanitarian law, and allow the citizens to evacuate. we will continue to spare no effort to deliver life-saving medical aid to besieged areas. we will also assist in advocacy efforts to insist on safe and full access for health teams participating in the polio immunisation campaign throughout syria. we will maintain all other forms of assistance, including those targeting areas under the control of the opposition, in order to maintain and develop the most vital services. with these and many other efforts, the european union will help syrians to reach their goal of living in dignity, freedom and democracy.
in writing. while the geneva ii conference on syria opened on 22 january, the escalation of violence in syria continues and the humanitarian situation remains dire. since the beginning of the conflict, 130,000 people have been killed, 500,000 have been injured and more than 2 million have fled to neighbouring countries. this conference, whose talks are currently suspended until 10 february, should be the first step towards a lasting political and democratic solution for syria. to this end, peace negotiations must be open to all parties to the conflict so that confidence can be restored and a ceasefire agreed as soon as possible. for its part, the international community must continue its cooperation in the process of destroying syria's chemical arsenal and maintain its support for syria's neighbouring countries which have hosted and continue to host refugees. i would like to remind you that the european union is the largest donor of financial aid in the international community. we must continue our efforts to contribute to the establishment of a political solution in syria as soon as possible.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, two weeks ago i took part with some colleagues in a field mission to bulgaria as part of a delegation from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, with a number of objectives: to assess the situation of asylum seekers on the spot, to assess the reception improvements already made and those to be made, and to suggest, if necessary, improvements in the support of the european institutions in the country. i come back from this mission with mixed impressions. on the one hand, it is undeniable that the bulgarian authorities have made efforts to improve the conditions for receiving and examining asylum applications, but it is also clear that the situation on the ground, although different from the initial situation, is still difficult and we are far from humanly acceptable conditions or standards laid down in european refugee law. i have a number of comments to make on the difficulties i have observed there. my first comment concerns the mechanism you have just mentioned, madam. even though the number of asylum seekers in bulgaria in 2013 was eight times higher than the previous year's average, it is clear that it is not so much the level of demand that is problematic but also the nature of the bulgarian system. the latter was probably not equipped to cope with such an increase in demand both in terms of reception and procedures. i understand that you want to consider and possibly implement the early warning mechanism, which provides for an action plan. maybe it's a first, but i think the situation is right. while there had been a very large increase in the number of migrants apprehended at the border since the summer of 2013, the trend has reversed since november. hence my second comment in the form of a question: is the commission working with the bulgarian authorities to ensure that border controls allow people seeking international protection to have effective access to asylum procedures and are not turned away, which would be contrary to international rules? finally, one last point. it is clear that bulgaria must fulfil its obligations in the field of international protection and comply with the european asylum acquis. it is equally clear that bulgaria needs to be assured of the solidarity of the rest of europe in the reception of syrian refugees, whether in financial terms or in the form of physical reception of the people. (applause) the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr stoyanov, a two-point answer. first, the reception of the syrians. the french president, who is first and foremost the french president before being the socialist president, has indeed indicated the number of syrians he intends to receive and we have begun to receive them. but the real issue is to prevent people who show up at a border from being turned away when they are in need of international protection and this is the responsibility of all member states.
mr president, the tragedy in farmakonisi has claimed the lives of 12 people: nine children, three women, and this is no coincidence. my group has asked for a debate today because ngos, unhcr, the council of europe have, on the basis of the evidence gathered on the spot, questioned the behaviour of the greek coastguard in a collective refoulement operation to turkey and not a rescue operation. at a time when greece is holding the presidency of the union, we find this questioning unbearable and responsibility must indeed be clearly established. the reason the problems have been increasing since 2012 is because greece has closed its land borders. in 20 years, more than 25,000 people have died in the mediterranean. this new drama demonstrates, if need be, the urgency of adopting at least the text on rescue at sea, and this before the end of this parliamentary term. forty-five thousand people arrived on european shores in 2013. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the work of the european parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the modal part of river transport is not taking off, despite its many advantages: low co2 emissions, high safety levels, modest noise pollution, no congestion. however, the fact that we do not exploit all this potential and this mode of transport has consequences for the efficiency and sustainability of our transport system. the commission's analysis of the situation in its naids ii proposal seems to be correct. beyond a short-term problem, there are undeniable structural problems: poor infrastructure, an ageing fleet, a lack of training of staff and a lack of ambition in the programmes. however, the measures to be taken to correct this situation come at a cost, and this is where the commission's strategy is not clear. i welcome the move to extend the scope of the reserve fund. it will make it easier for representative organisations to use it to stimulate the programmes of groups of companies, improve the skills of boatmen and promote technical adaptation of vessels. but if we want things to progress, we need a comprehensive plan and many of my colleagues before me regretted the lack of it. the new infrastructure fund, the connecting europe facility, focused on green transport, which provides for the river sector with significant co-financing, in particular for the removal of bottlenecks, horizon 2020 and the platina programme, a platform for the implementation of naides in terms of technological innovation - again this aspect should not be underestimated - cosme, which is also a useful programme, since river transport is largely composed of medium and small enterprises, the erdf funds, the cohesion funds, eib interventions and financial instruments. we ask the commission to put together a general plan with all these measures, since we cannot have a specific measure. more generally, this coordination, including with the member states and private actors, would allow us to set quantitative targets over time that are a little more ambitious. in conclusion, madam president, we must better control the use of levies on modes of transport - i will not refer to the earmarking made by the member states - and strengthen the european strategy for internalising external costs, which could only benefit this transport so virtuous as river transport.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their valuable comments. together with my colleagues, i have taken note of your concern and we will make sure that these are taken into account by the commission for the implementation of naiades ii. many of you stressed the word ‘implementation’ and have a good strategy for implementation. let me recall, again, that naiades ii is based on the lessons learned during the previous programme and was adopted only very recently, in september of last year. the target date for many programmes has actually been pushed forward to 2016-17. i tried to present to you the six fields. i could present it in much greater detail, so as to underline the efforts to put forward a comprehensive programme to create conditions for the much greater effectiveness of inland water transport. some of the initiatives we have been talking about will lead to profound changes aimed at adapting the inland waterways sector to today’s requirements for an efficient and integrated transport system, but these changes are unavoidable. the commission is convinced that the inland waterways sector is an important element of a well-functioning, safe and green transport system. with naiades ii, we are creating the conditions to fully realise this potential and thus to contribute to growth and employment in the european union. the commission takes the task to revitalise this sector seriously. it will play an important role in stimulating the sector to take the measures needed to overcome the structural weaknesses from which it is suffering. naiades ii – and let me underline this again – provides for many concrete initiatives to this effect. the key factors responsible for the crisis, such as its fragmentation or its lack of integration into the logistic chains, require structural change. any action taken by the commission cannot be a substitute for action taken by the sector itself to bring about this change. naiades ii therefore passes a clear message to the sector about its responsibility to take action to make the necessary structural improvements which, together with the implementation of naiades ii, create the platform for the continuing dialogue between the various stakeholders in the european union – primarily the commission, the parliament and the council – on the follow-up to naiades ii, addressing the many calls i heard during this debate for that strategy to be both comprehensive and ambitious.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, guy verhofstadt is right. do you know why the council is acting this way? because he knows parliament. the council knows that if we push this parliament into its last reticence by saying to it: 'you are not going to refuse the banking union at the last moment, as was the case with the budgets' - i can give many examples - at the last moment, by chance, you will see that half of the council's proposal will be taken up and accepted by parliament with, perhaps, what guy verhofstadt has just said, which is: 'well, we will see in three, ten or fifty years, or i do not know when ... if we can do something else.' that is why the council is taking its time. because the closer we get to the election, the closer we get to the end of this legislature, the more he knows he's going to win. that's the problem. secondly, it is true that the institutional jargon is complicated: article 114, article 352... one thing must be said: it is not about public money! don't let the germans break our legs! the german constitutional court has nothing to do with this. it's private money! money from private banks, which are multinational banks. you're going to tell me that deutsche bank -- i know it's called deutsche bank -- does business all over europe. unicredit is doing its biggest business in germany. when we stop being told - that's what we make people believe - that it's about protecting people's money. no, you can't! the aim is to find a resolution mechanism for private banks. that is why the states, as they are, do not have to put a flag on this mechanism. therefore, parliament must be clear. since it is a question of organising the protection of citizens and ensuring that banks can no longer go back to the citizens, that is to say to the states, to say: 'we are bankrupt, so it is up to you to pay', there must be a european mechanism. we cannot act country by country, as some member states and the council are proposing, and that is what is incredible. to do so would be to demonstrate once again our inability to show solidarity. the weak would remain weak and the strong would remain strong. that is what this parliament must refuse. that's kind of the lesson we want to teach with what we're doing. the only way to win is for this parliament to say over and over again: 'no solution is better than a bad solution.' only if we are able to hold it and explain it do we have a chance of forcing the council's hand. if from the beginning we say to ourselves: "yes, we must accept because we have to find a solution, etc"., then we have lost. so i hope that those who are negotiating will make that clear. i hope the president of parliament is making that clear. that the videos of this debate be sent to the council since the minister is unable to fly from athens to come here. we can web-stream these debates, so at least he'll hear what was said. we can also send them to the other 27 governments and especially to the german government. let us say it and let us make it known when we vote in the near future: 'there will be no solution which does not pass through the community method'. because the community method protects citizens against the interests of private banks. in an electoral battle, that is what is defended and that is what we must defend.
mr president, i will be very brief. it is very pleased that you have, in the course of your duties, acknowledged the error which has been made against mr szymański. let me tell you that what is expected of a number of members of this house is not so much an apology. mr szymański announced that as rapporteur he would recommend voting against the text, which is still quite rare, and which would have had, if his intervention had taken place, a decisive impact on the outcome of the vote. therefore, it can legitimately be assumed that the vote was flawed. in these circumstances, since the rules of procedure, which give the rapporteur the right to speak, have not been observed, it seems to me that the vote should be taken again.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to strengthen the existing legislation by providing, in particular, clarifications on passenger information and compensation in the event of denied boarding, cancellation or delay of a flight. this is one of the eu's great advances in passenger protection.
in writing. i support this text which aims to strengthen the rights of air passengers in the european union. these rights are too often ignored. it seems essential to work towards greater legal security for citizens in europe. air carriers should have a policy of transparency and dissemination of information in the event of travel disruption, including the establishment of a contact point for each airline. i also welcome the proposal that has been made to ensure greater transparency in ticket prices and to protect passengers against possible abuse.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague, mr bach, on air passenger rights. the report provides a clear definition of 'extraordinary circumstances' for which financial compensation may be refused and aims to strengthen existing legislation by providing details on passenger information, including on baggage handling, and on compensation in the event of denied boarding, cancellation or delay of a flight. this report was adopted by a large majority, with 580 votes in favour, 41 against and 48 abstentions, and i welcome that.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bach report on the revision of the air passenger rights regulation. parliament wants to make these rules more effective by ensuring that airlines (and passengers themselves!) can no longer forget their obligations (and rights) in the event of a delayed or cancelled flight. i hope that negotiations on this matter with the council of the european union can move forward quickly, because beyond the fact that this is a great example of all that the eu does for our citizens in practice, the protection of passenger rights is a crucial point of trade and human exchanges in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that airlines should compensate passengers for denied boarding, delayed or cancelled flights, except in exceptional circumstances clearly defined in the text. in addition, each airline should have a point of contact at each airport it serves to respond to passengers' problems and to provide better information, including on their rights and complaint procedures. the airlines are also expected to respond to complaints within two months, otherwise they would be considered accepted.
in writing. it was essential to clarify european legislation on air passenger rights in order to protect them as much as possible. i am therefore very pleased to have voted in favour of this report. the commission proposes to establish comprehensive and clear rules to prevent the law from being misapplied. the definition of certain terms is essential to avoid creating a legal vacuum which can be used against passengers by malicious airlines. all actors need to be held accountable to compensate their passengers in the event of cancellation or long delay of a flight and by establishing penalties if passenger rights are not respected. the first step towards making the european market more mobile is to facilitate travellers' movement by ensuring that their rights are respected.
in writing. only 2% of air passengers receive compensation after lodging a complaint: this is the current imbalance between the traveller and the airline. i therefore voted in favour of these new provisions so that passengers who are stuck, whose luggage has been damaged or whose flight has been delayed can be better informed and can get compensation. the text also provides for an increase in the number of bags allowed in holds, including handbags, coats and shopping bags at the airport.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of a flight. europe has already done much to protect the rights of air passengers in the event of loss of baggage or cancellation of flights. however, in many cases airlines refuse to grant these rights or delay compensation procedures. in view of this situation, the report simplifies the procedures for air passengers and obliges airlines to inform correctly and in good time all passengers who are entitled to compensation. the text will help to protect european citizens from airlines which too often show bad faith.
in writing. i welcome the result achieved today, the result of negotiations with all the political groups until the last minute. the increase in air traffic must be accompanied by new rights for passengers, whose numbers are increasing. the text introduces an important new element: the right to financial compensation in the event of delay, in proportion to the duration of the flight. airlines will no longer be able to evade their obligations, particularly by making false claims of technical problems. in addition, when booking a flight, price transparency will be mandatory in the interests of the consumer. the price of the ticket must always include the costs of check-in, boarding pass, hand luggage, hold baggage and payment, such as credit card charges. finally, the rules on cabin baggage will make life easier for travellers. the scandalous business practices of some low-cost airlines had to be stopped. parliament voted a balanced text between better rights for passengers, with particular attention to vulnerable passengers such as children or disabled people, and realistic and effectively enforceable obligations by airlines. we now expect the council to be just as ambitious.
in writing. in this report, the european parliament proposes to extend, improve and strengthen the eu's energy and climate policy by setting three binding targets to be achieved by 2030, namely at least 40% reduction in co2 emissions compared to 1990 levels, 30% energy from renewable sources and 40% energy efficiency. i voted in favour of this report because this strategy is clearly in the interests of all of us: on the one hand it will reduce our dependence on oil and gas from unstable and unpredictable countries and on the other hand it will boost economic activity in our territories by contributing to the development of new technologies. by reducing co2 emissions, producing more renewable energy and reducing energy waste, the goal is clear: to fight climate change by creating jobs in our regions. this could create over a million jobs by 2030. convinced of the need to reconcile economy and ecology, i have always advocated an ambitious 2030 energy-climate package and have made a significant contribution to this positive vote, which i welcome.
in writing. i did not vote for the 2030 framework for climate and energy policies because the constraints included in this resolution do not seem to me to be compatible with the requirements of competitiveness of european companies, especially in the industrial sector. the final vote (341 in favour, 263 against) does not convey a strong message and will be of no use to the heads of state or government meeting on 20 and 21 march 2014 on the subject of energy and competitiveness. this result is due to the extreme positions of parliamentarians who want to set an example in energy and climate matters at all costs without taking into account the industrial sector exposed to co2 leakage. it is becoming urgent that political parties and citizens debate this issue and give their voice at the european elections in may 2014. this will be the right political and democratic way to prepare a strong message for heads of state or government in the run-up to the 21st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, scheduled to take place in paris in 2015. until an international agreement is signed, the competitiveness of our industry must not be affected.
in writing. i voted against the recommendation that 'the european parliament declares that it does not oppose the draft regulation of the european commission'. this will once again make clear our opposition to the implementation of backloading and the reduction in the number of emission allowances put up for auction. this is a political decision to show our disagreement with the commission's intervention in the emission allowance market. it is also a matter of consistency, as the epp has always rejected backloading in the past.
in writing. i did not support the delvaux-szymanski own-initiative report on climate and energy policies for 2030 at the time of the final vote, as the common line supported by my political group did not find a majority. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the decision-making process. i want ambitious commitments on climate and energy by 2030 without penalising the competitiveness of european industry.
in writing. the adoption of this report is a victory on the road to a greener europe by 2013. in particular, we have supported ambitious targets for greenhouse gases, renewable energy and energy efficiency. although the request for impact assessments is a first step, i regret that the amendment tabled in favour of the precautionary principle on shale gas did not receive the support of parliament, led by the european right.
in writing. this text expresses the european parliament's position on the objectives it wishes to set for climate and energy policies by 2030. it seemed to me essential during this vote to give the european union clear objectives, but one which offers a certain legal certainty without hindering competitiveness and employment. i have supported a binding target of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. this would have been accompanied by a strong commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency, where member states would have had more room for manoeuvre. since this proposal was not adopted, i accepted the possibility of adopting a second binding objective. however, in the face of the disproportionate threat to european competitiveness and jobs, i refused to support the proposal for three legally binding targets.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which gives the european union real ambition in the field of climate and energy. as member states are very diverse in terms of industrial structure, carbon and energy intensity, it was in everyone's interest to act on this issue. moreover, one of the fundamental objectives of the union's energy policy is to ensure that the energy system contributes to the competitiveness of the union's economy, which i welcome.
in writing. i did not want to support this own-initiative report on climate and energy policies for 2030 at the time of the final vote, as the common line supported by my political group, namely compromise amendment no 6, which proposed a binding co2 emission reduction target and a more political european target combining energy efficiency and renewable energy, failed to win a majority. with a view to the paris climate conference in 2015, i call on the european union to obtain ambitious commitments from its partners to ensure a balanced, effective and non-competitive international agreement for european industry.
in writing. we, the european parliamentarians, have just reiterated our climate and energy ambition by affirming, by 341 votes to 263, a clear position of the european parliament in the debate on the union's climate and energy policy for 2030. the vote comes just weeks after the european commission presented a weak proposal that was unsuited to the climate emergency, and was encouraged by the reluctance of some countries, such as france, to act, even though europe has all the assets to excel in this area. even if the climate and energy targets adopted by parliament are far from what is necessary and possible in this area, the report adopted by parliament has the merit of calling for binding targets (a 40% reduction in co2 emissions, an increase to 30% of the share of renewable energy and a 40% target for energy efficiency by 2030). i voted in favour of this text because we had to send a clear and important signal to governments. europe must have a climate-energy package with three binding targets, a prerequisite for its success, in particular in view of the international climate conference in paris in 2015.
in writing. i voted against the own-initiative report on climate change by 2030 because it is not going in the right direction. no one understands the persistence of the green and left parties in sacrificing any hope of economic recovery to excessive and growth-squeezing environmental policy, when what we really need is a clear and simple strategy to overcome the challenges of this century.
in writing. i voted against the report which calls for the implementation of binding climate and energy targets for member states by 2030. in a difficult economic context, marked by rising energy prices and their impact on the competitiveness of european industry, it seems important to me to leave flexibility to member states on their investments in energy efficiency or renewable energy.
in writing. unfortunately, the texts on the eu's energy and climate policy follow one another and are similar. there is still so much certainty about the benefits of the co2 market, and still so much blindness to the climate catastrophe. the few cosmetic reforms that the european parliament wants to make to the ets are tiny compared to the incredible environmental counterproductivity that the system has already shown. at a crucial moment for the survival of humanity, the european parliament has already abandoned any ambitious energy and climate policy. instead, it is the 'internal energy market' that should initiate the bifurcation of the european energy model and the co2 market that should steer the european economy towards sobriety in this area. the archetype of the stupidity of this european liberal technocracy is the proposal to abandon public aid for certain renewable energies (land-based wind and solar) on the grounds that they would distort the proper functioning of the energy market and that they would be mature enough to face competition. i shall abstain on this text in order not to impede the meagre progress made in this report.
in writing. it is very important for the european union to adopt a common climate strategy so that all member states are held accountable to the common goal of preserving the environment. many european laws have been enacted to this end and member states are doing their utmost to reduce their energy consumption. however, it is essential to take account of the sectors affected by this reduction in energy consumption, such as industry and transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies. i voted against this report because the binding objectives it proposed were completely out of proportion and unattainable. reducing greenhouse gas emissions is essential, but it must not be at the expense of certain important sectors of the european economy. there are priorities, and the return to growth is the main one.
in writing. on 23 january 2014, the commission presented its green paper on energy and climate policies for 2030, reversing its previous statements and positions. the european parliament adopted a resolution confirming its previous climate positions, including the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 and the adoption of binding targets for greenhouse gas emissions reduction, energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy in energy consumption by 2030. however, its ambitions remain limited, its renewable energy and co2 reduction targets being only marginally higher than those of the commission. i regret that a right-wing majority rejected the amendments which i co-signed in order to increase these objectives. i am particularly sorry that parliament is calling for a reduction in public intervention in all areas of energy and climate policy. how can the necessary public policies be implemented by leaving it to private investors and the 'balance of the market'? this means nothing more than the unleashing of greenwashing, in other words pseudo-green capitalism. so i chose to abstain in the final vote because it is only a very small step in the face of the challenges of global warming.
in writing. climate change is a real threat to people, and that is why i voted today in favour of measures with binding targets: reduction of co2 emissions, development of renewable energy and improvement of energy efficiency. in its proposals for 'energy and climate by 2030', unveiled on 22 january, the european commission has set only one really binding target: a 40% reduction in co2 emissions, coupled with a 27% target for renewable energies at european level, but it does not provide for mandatory national reductions, which makes its implementation uncertain. the commission has also not proposed any measures to improve energy efficiency, which is a source of economic and climate benefits. like the other european socialists, i have today spoken in favour of multifaceted and binding objectives, far from the timid proposals of the european commission. we need a clear and strong european position: the sector needs visibility to make the investment decisions that bind us in the medium and long term today, in order to make the european union the world leader in sustainable development.
in writing. the rapporteur konrad szymański wanted to disavow his own report by postponing it in committee but was unable to do so for procedural reasons. it was a bad text. the issue of global warming/climate change has been in the spotlight for many years, and europeans have been blamed for it at every turn. the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is the workhorse of the well-meaning commission. yet the eu is responsible for only 11% of these emissions worldwide. despite sound economic sense, in the face of rising energy prices, the commission is proposing only costly and haphazard renewable energy sources such as wind and a reduction in ghg emission quotas for member states, an incentive to pollute elsewhere than in europe. insecurity remains as regards the supply of renewable energy. these resources are not sufficiently reliable or flexible to respond quickly to rapid changes in demand. the european energy policy is not balanced and this is reflected in the commission's irresponsible proposals which only increase the union's regulatory burden.
in writing. after the 2009 energy and climate package, which was one of the greatest successes of the french eu presidency, our parliament adopted an ambitious roadmap to 2030. we know the crucial challenges facing humanity: limiting the rise in temperatures, co2 emissions, sea level rise and preserving biodiversity and our habitat. these are the imperatives which require us to explore the ways of achieving an economy which is resource and energy efficient. two types of energy seem to me to be extremely promising and should be encouraged: renewable marine energy, produced in particular from wind, waves and currents, which are clean, unlimited sources and job creators; and shale gas, which is hotly debated but can be exploited intelligently, provided that sustainable and non-abrasive exploration and extraction methods are developed. these two projects represent the future of energy and are capable of guaranteeing the union an energy supply which respects the balance between industrial development and environmental protection. in this way we can reduce our energy bill, our trade deficit and our dependence on oil and gas from unstable countries.
in writing. we confirmed, by a large majority, the negotiating mandate on the bank resolution mechanism, the last and indispensable step in building a strong and reliable european banking union. we wanted to give weight to the negotiating team of the committee on economic and monetary affairs of parliament which is conducting laborious negotiations with the member states. our fellow citizens need us to endorse the creation of this single resolution mechanism to avoid burdening the states, and therefore the taxpayers, with the bankruptcy of credit institutions. firstly, the european parliament wants the resolution mechanism to be based on a european treaty rather than an intergovernmental treaty, as germany wants. similarly, we believe that we cannot wait for the agreement of 28 member states when it comes to deciding on the bankruptcy of a bank and triggering the resolution mechanism. otherwise, this tool would lose all purpose since its functioning depends on the very speed of decision-making. we hope that this vote will open the way to further compromises.
in writing. i voted in favour of this clear negotiating mandate on the european banking union mechanism, which aims to protect the taxpayer from possible bank failures. the compromise reached before christmas by the finance ministers is far from satisfactory and does not provide sufficient legal clarity to avoid contagion between financial institutions. the member states' position shows significant setbacks compared to michel barnier's proposal, particularly on the complex and politicized decision-making mechanism and the weakness of the bank-financed rescue fund, which must be more credible. the council must accept democratic control of decisions and review its copy for adoption before the european elections.
in writing. for several months now, discussions have been taking place within the union to establish a 'single mechanism for resolving banking crises'. this banking union is supposed to solve crises by stealing from troubled banks. in practical terms, this means setting up a new fund, financed primarily by the banks, whose insufficiency is known in advance and which will therefore be mainly replenished by public funds. as usual, there are few conditions attached to this bank rescue, which has already cost over eur 4.5 trillion, and no question is raised here of the dependence of the states on the financial markets. the european parliament has fought a battle, but it is not to criticize the cruel lack of ambition of this reform, which is being presented as revolutionary in an election period. it is to reject the intergovernmental process that the council favors, a procedure which will give less power to the european commission and more to the representatives of the member states. the position of the gue-ngl is clear: we are voting against this so-called 'reform' which is merely organising the rescue of the banks without any real counterpart from them.
in writing. since 2002, fresh beef has been labelled precisely to inform the consumer of the place of birth, rearing and slaughter of the bovine. in 2011, the european commission was given the task of extending origin labelling to other types of meat: sheep, goat, pig and poultry meat. the european commission proposes very minimal rules with only a mention of the place of slaughter and sometimes the place of rearing. we believe that the european commission should revise its copy and come back quickly with a text that will better inform consumers. that is why i voted for this resolution which i initiated and tabled with my colleague, mrs agnès le brun.
in writing. i supported this resolution to take over the european commission in its application of european legislation on the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of fresh, chilled and frozen meat of porcine, ovine, caprine and poultry animals. in view of the recent scandals in various european countries over meat labelling problems, i believe it is essential to provide for the mandatory indication on the label of unprocessed meat from pigs, sheep and goats and poultry of the place of birth, rearing and slaughter. only then will we be able to restore consumer confidence.
in writing. a year ago, citizens were astonished and shocked to discover the composition of lasagna made from horse meat. although the european union has steadily strengthened food safety and the traceability of the products we consume, fraud and diversion have been detected. this unacceptable situation calls for a strong, effective and responsible response. this is why i am surprised that the european commission has not been able to come up with a proposal that is up to the challenge. since 2002, fresh beef has been subject to precise and mandatory labelling at the place of birth, rearing and slaughter of the bovine. we owe this clear and transparent approach to information to consumers. however, the commission continues to oppose the generalization of these rules to other types of meat (sheepmeat, goatmeat, pigmeat and poultrymeat) fresh, chilled or frozen. the european parliament therefore called on the commission to revise its proposal in the light of the need for transparency and information for citizens.
in writing. i voted for the resolution in favour of better consumer information on all types of meat with the obligation to indicate on the label the place of birth, rearing and slaughter of animals. the eu's new rules on labelling for fresh beef and veal, which have been in place since 2002, should also apply to pig, sheep, goat and poultry meat, meps said.
in writing. one year after the horse meat scandal in lasagna, the european commission has presented a regulation on the origin labelling of fresh, chilled or frozen pig, sheep, goat or poultry meat. unfortunately, the text on the table is not acceptable. the brussels executive proposes only minimalist rules, according to which a chicken that has lived only one month in france could be called "raised in france", without specifying its place of birth. i therefore voted in favour of the objection and against the commission proposal and called for mandatory labelling indicating the place of birth, rearing and slaughter, in order to provide the consumer with clear traceability information.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the european commission to review its policy on food labelling. the european commission, under the influence of certain large agri-food lobbies, is seeking to adopt a number of derogations from the labelling rules concerning the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of certain fresh meat. european consumers have the right to be informed about the origin of the meat they consume. in this text, i have therefore asked the european commission to make it compulsory for the labelling of meat from pigs, sheep, goats and poultry to indicate the place of birth, rearing and slaughter, as provided for in the legislation in force for beef and veal.
in writing. since the bse crisis, the labelling of beef has been subject to strict rules, but not that of pig, sheep, goat or poultry meat. in recent years, however, food fraud has increased. the european commission has therefore proposed a regulation to introduce the marking of the country of production and slaughter of the animal on the packaging. in this resolution, parliament opposed this and asked the commission to revise its copy, including the labelling of the country of birth. i voted for this resolution because we must shed light on the origin of meat. to require the compulsory indication of the place of birth, rearing and slaughter of unprocessed meat of porcine, ovine and caprine origin and poultry in the same way as is done today for beef seems to me quite 'normal'. in the light of the recent food scandals, including the fraudulent use of horse meat instead of beef ('spanghero's case), greater transparency and better information on the origin of all types of meat, including minced meat, seems to me to be the minimum requirement.
in writing. faced with the steady fall in the price of carbon in the european co2 emissions market and its negative consequences for the climate and low investments in carbon emissions, the european commission has proposed to save it by regulating the supply and demand of allowances. behind this technical appearance is the whole of european policy to combat climate change. indeed, with a price of a tonne of carbon dangerously close to zero, the carbon market becomes inefficient and therefore transparent... it no longer protects europeans and their environment from carbon emissions that contribute to climate change and natural disasters. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation, which calls for the rapid implementation of this emergency measure.
in writing. regarding the implementation of the greenhouse gas auction timetable, i voted against the european commission's proposals in the draft regulation because the commission did not provide an assessment showing, for the different industrial sectors, that no real impact is to be expected on the sectors or subsectors exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage. this assessment was an essential condition for the consent of the european parliament when it voted, after difficult debates, the decision of 17 december 2013 authorising the commission to amend the timetable by withdrawing 900 million allowances. i also object to the fact that the draft regulation has not been translated into all the languages, which is another intolerable attack on multilingualism. it was not even made available to meps on the parliament's live session website.
in writing. i opposed the european commission's draft regulation to amend european legislation on the determination of the volume of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned during the period 2013-2020. such a change in the timetable for auctioning co2 emission allowances runs counter to the principle of legal certainty which we want to respect in order to promote competitiveness and employment in europe.
in writing. last december, parliament endorsed the freezing of 900 million co2 emission allowances under the greenhouse gas emission trading system (ghg), otherwise known as the carbon market (cem), in order to make it at least operational. at this session, the only question was to approve the entry into force of this provision in the coming weeks. as in december last year, i abstained because the 900 million co2 emission allowances frozen for the period 2014-2016 and put back on the market in 2019 are only a palliative and are far from matching the necessary reduction in ghg emissions. the aim of the freeze is to increase the price of co2 and thus to encourage manufacturers to change their production methods by investing in technologies and manufacturing processes that emit less co2. i don't believe in that. this decision was adopted by a narrow majority. the right wing as a whole, under pressure from the industrial lobbies, voted against this amendment, showing its opposition to any measure to reduce co2 emissions and its lack of concern for the issues of protecting the planet.
in writing. in view of the tragic situation in ukraine, i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the use of force, calls for a peaceful solution and, finally, recalls the european union's readiness to help and to come closer to ukraine and the ukrainians.
in writing. the european parliament could not remain silent in the face of the wave of protests in ukraine in recent months, firstly to demand that ukraine sign the final association agreement with the european union, and also to demand the resignation of president viktor yanukovych. i supported the european parliament resolution voted on 6 february 2014. the joint resolution by the various political groups condemns all forms of violence and repression by the ukrainian authorities against peaceful protesters and calls for political dialogue as a solution to this crisis. parliament also called for the fight against money laundering and tax evasion to be continued, for a visa-free regime to be rapidly introduced and eventually a visa-free regime for ukrainians, and for a long-term financial assistance programme to be prepared to help ukraine improve its financial and social situation.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the situation in ukraine. the resolution condemns the escalation of violence and calls for a solution to the conflict through dialogue. it called on president yanukovych to end the use of riot police, arbitrary arrests and to release all unlawfully detained protesters, including yulia tymoshenko. it also calls for targeted sanctions against ukrainian officials involved in the repression of the pro-european movement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. it should be recalled that following the decision of the ukrainian president not to sign the association agreement with the european union, protests began two months ago, which were severely repressed by the riot police and quickly banned by laws that severely restrict freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. the resolution condemns the policy of intimidation, repression and even torture which has been carried out by the ukrainian government against demonstrators, human rights activists and journalists. i welcome this, especially since it also mentions the acts of violence committed by ultra-nationalist members of openly neo-nazi movements. i also welcome the adoption of an amendment by the gue-ngl which recalls that it is the ukrainian people alone who must decide the geopolitical direction of their country, without foreign interference. the resolution does not, however, say anything about the union's policy in ukraine, which is limited to proposing the development of free trade on the basis of a 'deep and comprehensive free trade area'. the ukrainians need democracy and a re-foundation of their institutions, not economic tutelage. that is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution condemning the very numerous and absolutely intolerable human rights violations currently taking place in syria. the resolution calls for a concerted, peaceful solution but also recalls that "any political solution must preserve the unity, territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of syria".
in writing. faced with the escalation of terror for the past three years, europe has still not succeeded in finding a satisfactory solution to the syrian crisis. and the last few months have shown us that this response can only be political, to prevent chaos from succeeding chaos. this is why this resolution stresses the role of the geneva ii negotiations. the syrian opposition must use this platform to show itself more united and organized. the resolution also stresses the extremely worrying situation of the syrian people, and we europeans must do everything possible to bring medical and humanitarian aid to these people in distress as quickly as possible. the resolution also stressed the increase in violence on religious or ethnic grounds, which was essential in view of the extremely worrying situation of the minorities concerned, especially christians.
in writing. this is not the first time that parliament has spoken out on the situation in syria and the measures that need to be taken. in the face of the continuing escalation of violence in syria and the growing number of victims, it is becoming increasingly clear that a lasting solution to the current crisis can only be found through a political process led by syria and open to all parties. it is in this perspective that the efforts of the geneva ii conference must be continued and that direct interaction between the warring parties must be maintained. the resolution also provides an opportunity for parliament to pay tribute to the countries neighbouring syria which are absorbing the ever-increasing flows of refugees. the union must of course support the countries bordering syria, in view of the humanitarian, social, economic, political and security consequences of the syrian crisis for the whole region. this assistance to host countries, whether humanitarian aid, development aid or macroeconomic aid, must be articulated and organised in a concerted way.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the current situation in syria, where more than 100 000 people have already lost their lives. the text reiterates its call for a political solution supported by the international community and its concern about the humanitarian situation and its implications for syria's neighbours. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. the recent events in syria have had dramatic consequences, both politically and humanitarianally. today, there are over 100,000 dead, over 4 million displaced persons and 2 million refugees in neighbouring countries. an attempt to resolve the conflict peacefully was initiated by the united nations, with the geneva ii conference for middle east peace, which opened on 22 january 2014, but whose positive results are still pending. the urgent need to intervene to enforce international law and minimise human losses, while continuing to seek a political compromise. this resolution perfectly embodies this urgency and affirms that the european parliament continues its efforts to achieve a political and peaceful solution. it also stressed the need for substantial humanitarian support to help syrian families and to ensure the protection of fundamental rights. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. according to the un, more than 130,000 people have been killed since the syrian regime's violent crackdown on peaceful protesters began. 9 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance, 6.5 million are internally displaced and 2.3 million are outside, mainly in syria's neighbouring countries. among them, a majority of children in terrible states of psychological suffering. this is not to say that the situation is dramatic. this resolution rightly calls on the union and its member states to fulfil their humanitarian duty and to do more for syrian refugees. there is little we can do about it, but the international community's apparent inertia is partly responsible for the worsening of the situation. however, i could not vote for a resolution which encourages the opposition to 'form a more united, inclusive and organised opposition front' when we know the influence of jihadist groups within it, which calls for the establishment of free zones on the border with turkey, whose role as a transit country for international jihadists is proven, and which says nothing about the reasons for the non-participation of the democratic opposition in the geneva conference.
in writing. this resolution on the situation in egypt affirms the european parliament's support for the democratic will shown by the egyptian people, while condemning the various forms of violence currently taking place in the country. i am particularly in favour of condemning acts of violence against coptic christians and the destruction of churches. in 2013, egypt had the highest number of incidents involving christians in the world. i therefore welcome the european parliament's call for greater protection of the coptic community.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses the importance of protecting the rights and freedoms of the entire egyptian population, in the context of the adoption of the new constitution by referendum, but with more than 60% abstentions, especially following the call for a boycott launched by the muslim brotherhood. i welcome the broad adoption of this resolution.
in writing. the new constitution adopted in egypt on 14 and 15 january 2014 by referendum marks an important transition that opens the door to the implementation of a real democratic system. it is all the more important because it was more than widely welcomed by the people, who voted 98.1% in favour, although the voter turnout was only 38.6%. many innovative elements are included in this constitution and testify to its stability as well as to the promising future it can offer egypt. this is particularly the case with various provisions which promote greater consideration of the rights and freedoms of the egyptian people. the resolution confirms the european parliament's desire to deepen relations between the european union and egypt, which would make the situation more sustainable. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. the resolution, which is full of goodwill, condemns the violence on both sides and expresses 'its great solidarity with the egyptian people'. however, it did not say anything about the military coup of july 2013 and the brutal repression that followed. nor is there any mention of the economic positions of the military leaders, whose interests are in reality far removed from those of the egyptian people, and in particular those of the workers, the poor and the young, who are demanding social justice and an improvement in their living standards. the economic situation has stabilised only thanks to the massive aid from the gulf countries and unemployment remains endemic. the priority is to restore democratic order as a matter of urgency so that the country can be rapidly equipped with democratic institutions capable of finally responding to the concerns of the population. the european parliament's almost unconditional support for the institutions created by the military coup seems to me to lack nuance and distance, to say the least. that is why i have chosen to abstain on this resolution, as have the members of the gue/ngl.
in writing. i supported this motion for a resolution which, in the context of the eu-russia summit on 28 january and the current events in ukraine, recalls the strategic nature of cooperation with russia in many areas but raises concerns about a number of elements. the human rights situation in russia, the law banning "propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations" and russia's approach to the ukrainian crisis are all issues of concern that are mentioned in the text. so i welcome its widespread adoption.
in writing. all the countries of the european neighbourhood have relations with the european union, some of them with a view to eventual membership. i voted in favour of this report, which contains encouraging provisions justified by the real risks in this country of a return to instability if a european perspective is not maintained.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. without prejudice to the case of bosnia-herzegovina, i maintain that it is time to call a halt to enlargement. the european union must make a lasting break in this process. the text urges the country to take the necessary steps to join. however, while it is important to encourage bosnia and herzegovina to undertake certain structural reforms, this should not be motivated by the desire to join the eu. the european union should strengthen its functioning to twenty-eight member states before considering integrating new countries.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the 2013 monitoring report on bosnia and herzegovina. i believe that the european union must take a break in the enlargement process. i am also very concerned about the inefficiency of the judicial system and the increasing inability of the authorities to implement court decisions. i am also concerned about the rampant corruption at all levels of public life and the persistence of organised crime in the country. it is imperative to reassess the european union's capacity for integration and not to speed up accession negotiations. the priority must be to deepen and consolidate the european project.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which highlights the lack of a common vision among the political leaders of the three ethnic communities in the country and calls for more cooperation and dialogue to overcome the existing difficulties. the text also regrets the high level of corruption, money laundering and trafficking of various kinds due to the lack of effective institutions. constitutional reform would be desirable to re-establish a functioning democratic state able to cope with the situation. the resolution calls for a continued commitment by the eu and political leaders to move the country towards candidate status, despite its lagging behind the progress made by other countries in the region. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. all the countries of the european neighbourhood have relations with the european union, some of them with a view to eventual membership. i voted in favour of this report, which contains encouraging provisions justified by the real risks in this country of a return to instability if a european perspective is not maintained.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. without prejudice to the case of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i maintain that it is time to say stop to enlargement. the european union must make a lasting break in this process. the text urges the country to take the necessary steps to join. however, while it is important to encourage the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to undertake certain structural reforms, this should not be motivated by the desire to join the eu. the european union should strengthen its functioning to twenty-eight member states before considering integrating new countries.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the 2013 follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i believe that the european union must take a break in the enlargement process. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in particular needs to make progress towards the rule of law by strengthening its fight against financial corruption and organised crime. respect for media diversity and pluralism also remains a major challenge for the country. it is imperative to reassess the european union's capacity for integration and not to speed up accession negotiations. the priority must be to deepen and consolidate the european project.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which encourages macedonia to consolidate the reforms it has undertaken in order to secure the gains made and to make progress towards meeting the political criteria for accession to the european union. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat corruption at the highest level, including through the seizure of assets and the monitoring of those responsible. i welcome the adoption of the resolution.
in writing. all the countries of the european neighbourhood have relations with the european union, some of them with a view to eventual membership. i voted in favour of this report, which contains encouraging provisions justified by the real risks in this country of a return to instability if a european perspective is not maintained.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. without prejudice to the case of montenegro, i maintain that it is time to call a halt to enlargement. the european union must make a lasting break in this process. the text urges the country to take the necessary steps to join. however, while it is important to encourage montenegro to undertake certain structural reforms, this should not be motivated by the desire to join the eu. the european union should strengthen its functioning to twenty-eight member states before considering integrating new countries.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the 2013 monitoring report on montenegro. i believe that the european union must take a break in the enlargement process. montenegro should continue the reform of its judicial system and strengthen its fight against financial corruption and organised crime. it is imperative to reassess the european union's capacity for integration and not to speed up accession negotiations. the priority must be to deepen and consolidate the european project.
in writing. i supported this resolution which welcomes the recent opening of five chapters of negotiations with a view to the possible accession of montenegro and calls for further reforms in that country so that new areas can be opened up for negotiation. nevertheless, the country still has much to do to combat the organized crime, corruption and electoral malpractices that still persist. similar efforts must be made to improve the independence of the judiciary and freedom of the press. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. the day of the vote was the world day for the elimination of female genital mutilation (fgm). i have therefore supported this resolution. as you know, these are degrading practices affecting the physical integrity of women and girls, a particularly cruel and dangerous form of violence. in france, fgm can be treated as a crime, an act of torture and barbarism. we must also fight against all forms of violence against women. we are calling on the commission to present a proposal for a legislative act of the union establishing measures to prevent all forms of violence against women (including fgm).
in writing. this text calls on the european union to commit itself to ending female genital mutilation worldwide. female genital mutilation is a particularly cruel form of violence and an attack on women's rights against which we must fight relentlessly. it is necessary to ensure that these women are properly protected. the call for ratification of the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women seems to me to be an appropriate instrument for presenting a uniform position of the european union.
in writing. every year, millions of women and girls in the european union and worldwide are victims of violence such as female genital mutilation, and many more are at risk. we cannot allow women to be the victims of violence simply because they are women. on this international day for the elimination of fgm, the vote on this resolution should therefore be an opportunity for us to demand zero tolerance for these crimes and the need to eradicate these unacceptable practices. europe and the member states must use all the instruments at their disposal to prevent these crimes and to prevent girls and women living on european soil from ever having to go through such a traumatic experience. whether it is the victims directive, the creation of european funds or the establishment of a platform between practitioners to combat these archaic practices, no effort should be spared to end these heinous crimes.
in writing. i supported this resolution which condemns the barbaric and torturous practice of female genital mutilation, which has affected nearly 140 million women and girls worldwide, including in the european union. the resolution calls on the commission to present a legislative act establishing preventive measures against all forms of violence against women, including female genital mutilation. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. female genital mutilation is a form of violence against women and girls, and a violation of their fundamental rights that i strongly oppose. i welcome the commitment of the european commission to eradicate female genital mutilation. i would like to remind you of my longstanding wishes to the european parliament. we could go further and i ask the commission in particular to take a firm stand against third countries which do not condemn these brutal practices.
in writing. on this 6 february, the world day against female genital mutilation and c-section, i can only welcome the adoption of the resolution by my friend and colleague from the gue, mr gustafsson, to fight against these horrors. unicef estimates that these practices continue to affect more than 125 million women and girls in africa, the middle east and elsewhere. although in theory, genital mutilation is legally prohibited in most countries of the world, political will and concrete actions to combat this practice remain mostly superficial. so the fight is far from over! we must not forget, however, that this violence against women, as well as that against children and particularly girls, can only be truly reduced by the application of comprehensive policies and in particular of genuine cooperation policies aimed primarily at combating poverty and all the inequalities in access to education, health and all social rights. i always support texts that aim at greater equality between women and men, and the fight against violence against women is unfortunately an integral part of that.
in writing. waterway transport helps to reduce road congestion and greenhouse gas emissions. it is therefore a very important means of transport which should be developed as far as possible. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. this resolution aims to support the european commission's proposal to set up the naiades ii action programme for the period 2014-2020. in this text, the european parliament calls on the commission to allocate sufficient resources to such a programme which promotes inland waterway transport in the european union. it is important to provide adequate support to this sector, which is mainly composed of smes. in addition, water transport has low greenhouse gas emissions and it is worthwhile to develop it.
in writing. river freight is much less polluting than road transport. in my constituency in the south-west of france, i am defending his return to the canal des deux-mers. i am pleased that the group has obtained an amendment on aid for the modernisation of the small-sized fleet, which is the most environmentally friendly, in order to improve its competitiveness. similarly, our amendment calling for compliance with environmental regulations for inland waterways was narrowly adopted, whereas the amendment on the search for intermodal connections was not. in its present formulation, the resolution favours the colossal projects planned on the rhine and the danube. the two largest rivers in europe are often combined in one vision, that of a rhine-danube axis. we as environmentalists are not trying to adapt rivers and streams to larger vessels, but rather to calibrate the fleet according to the characteristics of the waterways. it is this second option that i advocate with the development of a medium-sized freight vessel on the canal des deux-mers. i therefore wish to abstain on the naiades ii programme.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the action programme for the development of inland waterway transport, nayades ii. this resolution stresses the importance of developing the quality infrastructure needed for inland waterway transport in the european union, ensuring river information services and providing appropriate funding for new technologies, innovation and sustainable freight transport services under current union programmes, in order to increase the environmental performance of inland waterway transport. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. since 2006, the european commission has established a european programme for waterway transport, called nayades. the commission proposed to update and renew this programme, which expired at the end of 2013, for the period 2014-2020, under the name of nayades ii. this renewal is good news, since water transport is in a difficult economic situation. the commission has made a number of proposals to improve infrastructure, protect jobs, develop skills and innovation, but unfortunately it has not proposed adequate funding for the implementation of these measures. this is what the european parliament wanted to denounce in its resolution on the naiades ii programme and that is why i supported this resolution. water transport has an important role to play if we are to take environmental issues seriously. it is therefore quite regrettable that the union does not give itself the means to pursue the policies it claims to support in this area.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the country has been particularly unstable since the military coup in september 2006 that ousted from power thaksin shinawatra, a populist billionaire, brother of the current prime minister, accused by the opposition of pulling the strings of the current government from abroad and suspected of corruption. it was a constitutional blockade that brought the military to power in 2006 and it is feared that the same scenario will be repeated today. since october 2013, the opposition has been trying to destabilize the government in power in every way possible. the constitutional court, the judiciary and the electoral commission are in the hands of this opposition on the basis of appointments made when the military was in power. the main opposition party, the so-called "democratic" party, seems to have a hard time admitting that since 2001 it has lost every parliamentary election. he has been a tireless advocate of replacing universal suffrage with an unelected council of the people. some even say that the "one citizen, one vote" system is not suitable for the kingdom of thailand. as the government dissolved parliament in an attempt to resolve the crisis and call for new elections, the democratic party called for a boycott of the elections and its supporters blocked 10 percent of polling stations, risking a constitutional blockade. a by-election is due to take place at the end of february. it would be better if everyone really cared about the best interests of the thai people if we want to avoid a crisis like the one in 2010 that took 90 lives and left more than 1,900 injured. the country needs reforms to adapt to the changing population. in that country, per capita income has tripled in 20 years. the expectations of the population have therefore changed profoundly. and the two main parties, each in different genres, don't seem to have understood these new aspirations. yes, it is democracy that is at stake in thailand.
author. - mr president, are we really talking about a human rights issue or, more precisely, a human rights emergency? let me ask myself this question in view of the situations we usually discuss here on thursday afternoons. i would have preferred to have discussed the situation in libya, afghanistan or djibouti, as my group had proposed. there is a real human rights emergency in these countries. the right to education, the right to use one's mother tongue, respect for minorities and linguistic diversity are all issues that deserve attention. however, i cannot help drawing parallels with the debate that took place here last night on bosnia, and i cannot help but see it as a kind of double standard and wonder whether the same dedication to the cause would be shown if the oppressed minority in transnistria were russian as is the case in some countries of the european union. we shall abstain on this resolution because the right to education in one's mother tongue must be protected in moldova, as in turkey, for that matter, but we are under no illusions as to why this issue is on our agenda. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i, like you, mr. preda, have seen the media but the school principal was arrested yesterday. so i do not think that is what prompted the inclusion of this item on the agenda. it's convenient for you, it makes it easier to justify this inscription, but at the time this topic was inscribed, it wasn't. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i do not know whether you are used to listening to me when i speak in this house, but that is exactly what i am asking for. i demand that there be no double standards. i am calling for the prism not to be focused on one country or another. i am asking that when there is a human rights emergency, in whatever country it is, we can put it on our agenda. when people are being murdered in a number of states around the world and we cannot get a debate on thursday afternoon, i consider that unacceptable.
author. - mr president, bahrain continues to be ravaged by a brutal repression, ignored, if not condoned. three years now that any dissenting expression is brutally suppressed, from within and without. we all know that here. we know the stakes in this region. we see what's moving forward, what's going backwards, what's stagnating and who's responsible. we also know how to decipher all kinds of manipulations, including those that are designed to make us believe that this is just a conflict between sunnis and shiites. bahrain is a sad victim of the arab spring. we know the conditions under which the bahraini spring was crushed with the help of saudi big brother. but the crushing of the legitimate aspirations of a people for democracy, respect for their rights and social justice has never silenced anyone. the courage of the bahrainis commands respect. in bahrain, repression is not a sham, unlike the sham of reforms that have no other purpose than to give some pledges to western friends. justice is a sham, as is the national dialogue promoted by a government which pretends to talk to its opponents while it is turning them over in prison: 3,000 political prisoners in this tiny country of 600,000 inhabitants! everyone knows that in bahrain, it is not the prince who rules but his uncle, the prime minister for fifty years. freedom of expression is particularly badly abused, both for national and foreign journalists. reporters without borders calls bahrain an enemy of the internet. human rights defenders are, as is often the case, the first victims of this type of power. i would, of course, like to mention the cases of nabil rajab, president of the bahrain centre for human rights, vice-president of the international federation of human rights leagues, and abdulhadi al-khawaja, who was particularly tortured and sentenced to life imprisonment. the union has a cooperation agreement with the gulf countries in which there is no clause on democracy and human rights. that's all there is to it. the fact that bahrain is one of the main arms buyers, one of those who have been reviving the arms trade in recent months, is no coincidence either.
mr president, i asked for the floor earlier when we voted on the opinion of parliament on the commission's regulation on the adaptation of greenhouse gas emission quotas and i was not given the floor. i would like to make a point about the multilingualism regulation. we voted on parliament's position and the regulation on which we voted is not on the live session website and was not translated. so the members voted on a document which is in breach of our rules on multilingualism, which is another attack on multilingualism in this house. i'm not talking about the parliamentary committees; i'm talking about the plenary. mr president, i would therefore like you to make a point to the presidency so that multilingualism in our european parliament does not deteriorate.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, my first words will be to thank the conference of presidents for agreeing to put this debate on the agenda. on behalf of my group, i would like to point out - but the parliamentarians know - that popular protests have been developing in venezuela recently, which have been bloodily suppressed by the authorities with an extremely heavy toll: 10 dead, more than a hundred injured and several people arrested, including leaders of the democratic opposition and students. our assembly has always considered it unacceptable for the authorities to kill their own people. in this context, i forgot to add that our parliament has regularly proposed tasks to the government which it has never been able to carry out. the government refused on the sole ground that [nbsp]as is the custom[nbsp] we wanted to meet the opposition. it is in this context that i am speaking here also as vice-chairman of the mercosur delegation; you know that we have negotiating interests and that today is the eu-brazil summit, and we would like our political debates to be accompanied by a resolution that would allow us to convey to the government of venezuela the "feeling" of our european parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, it should be remembered that the automobile industry represents almost 13 million direct and indirect jobs, i.e. more than 5% of the working population, and these are the jobs that are at stake today. our manufacturers have been hit hard by the economic crisis, and i have therefore supported from the outset a text which makes it possible to preserve the competitiveness of our industry, which is exposed to increased international competition. the agreement we are voting on tomorrow - and i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mr ulmer - is a step in the right direction. it is a balanced, pragmatic text, free of the unrealistic objectives that some would like. but make no mistake: the automobile industry has not waited for the european parliament to take the lead in reducing vehicle emissions. the already very ambitious target of limiting co2 emissions to 95 g/km by 2020 was maintained, but with an additional deadline to give manufacturers more flexibility. it therefore meets the need to protect the environment without harming our car industries. the bonus mechanism has also been preserved and will be in place until 2022. it allows manufacturers to accumulate bonuses when they bring clean vehicles to market. it is an indispensable incentive tool to encourage research and development on the vehicles of the future. the reason must therefore prevail in the face of the deindustrialization affecting our continent. as social plans proliferate, everything must be done to keep production in our territory. priority must be given to jobs and growth, because that is what our citizens expect from europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, my first words will be to thank the rapporteur, cecilia wikström, for the excellent cooperation we have had on this matter, her working method and her balanced position on the revision of the european trade mark system. she's the reason we worked fast and well. unfortunately, as has been said, the lengthy negotiations in the council prevent us from adopting today, at first reading, these legislative texts which are important for the competitiveness of our companies. i tabled amendments in plenary, on behalf of the epp and with my colleague mr rapkay, on behalf of the socialists, which deal with one point only, namely the control of goods in transit. i propose that this control of goods transiting through the european union and destined for a third market should be in accordance with the texts, but that we should remain lucid. the texts are respected, since any controls will have to be in accordance with the european union's obligations under international law, in particular the gatt agreements. i would point out that article 5 of these agreements, which concerns freedom of transit, states that transit traffic must not be subject to unnecessary delays and restrictions. similarly, paragraph 4 states that all duties and regulations applied to traffic in transit must be reasonable. the second text which will be respected requires that controls be carried out in such a way as not to impede the trade in generic medicines. this obligation is derived from the doha declaration on public health of 14 november 2001, which is annexed to the trips agreements. i said we should be clear-headed and not be naive; the commission has also proposed that the customs authorities should be able to determine the destination of the goods, as goods may be loaded and unloaded several times, making it very difficult for the customs authorities to know exactly where the goods are to be sent. secondly, counterfeiting is a real health risk, and i will just give our rapporteur a figure: 550 million doses of counterfeit medicines have been seized in 23 african countries, i believe... (the president interrupts the speaker)... that we have a responsibility towards them.
in writing. the reform of europol is necessary to adapt its operation to the requirements of the lisbon treaty, article 88 of which provides for control of its activities by the european parliament and national parliaments. i also welcome the consensus of the political groups to reject the proposal to merge the europol and cepol agencies. this would have undermined the effectiveness of the two agencies, which have separate missions. it is important to maintain the independence of the european police college, which is responsible for training national law enforcement agencies in the european context. the text also aims to ensure a robust regime for the protection of personal data processed by europol in the context of its missions to combat criminal activities. i believe that we must be careful in the design of this reform so as not to reduce europol's effectiveness by imposing disproportionate constraints.
member of the commission. - madam president, the proposal we have here in front of us is indeed to update the very old-fashioned rules which we have on this. it is to facilitate and to make clearer coherent rules for young people who want to come to europe for a short term to study or do research. today, if a qualified researcher who has a specific competence gets a stipend to come to europe to help build up a successful research environment – thereby contributing to growth, innovation and in addition, of course, cultural exchange – he or she is, in many countries, asked at present to leave the very day after his stipend runs out. he or she cannot stay for another couple of months to consolidate that research environment. it makes no sense really and we are facing global competition for skills in the world. yes, it is a paradox that we are facing huge youth unemployment in europe today. it is a tragedy and we need to fight this, but we need to be able to have two thoughts in our heads at the same time. yes, we need to fight unemployment and, of course, migration is not the solution to that. but it is actually a contribution because we are at the same time facing a lack of skills in certain environments where businesses and companies come daily to me and say, we cannot find these people in europe so we need to be able to attract a few of them. yes, we do have an ageing population; it will be difficult to supply for a generation that is getting older, which is a good thing in a way, but we need to be able to think on a long-term basis as well. these proposals are modern rules, fair conditions and we will also have safeguards in place to avoid abuse. i think parliament and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs have made a very important contribution to improve further the commission’s proposal and i hope that the council will also be able to agree on their position on this so that, very soon, when the new parliament resumes, we can have an agreement between the two co-legislators.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products (email), the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products (email) and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products (email). i would also like to stress our close cooperation and excellent agreement on this legislative proposal. the eu aid volunteers initiative aims to express the humanitarian values of the european union and its solidarity with people in need by contributing to the strengthening of the union's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises. the union must ensure adequate humanitarian assistance in the face of the increase in the number and scale of humanitarian crises. volunteers will play a key role in disaster preparedness, disaster risk reduction and strengthening the link between emergency, rehabilitation and development. the deployment of volunteers will be based on identified needs in the field and their role will be clearly defined. this is complementary to existing structures and organisations, and the safety of all these volunteers will of course be guaranteed. any european citizen may stand as a candidate. the selection of volunteers will respect a diversity of profiles and skills among young people, pensioners and experts. in addition, actions to enhance the experience of volunteers, in particular by means of certification at the end of the deployment in the field, will be implemented. i was lucky enough to meet several volunteers in the pilot projects, who were returning from missions; they have gained invaluable experience and skills in helping populations that need it most. in addition, this initiative will fill the gaps in current humanitarian volunteering and will also contribute to the idea of european citizenship and public awareness. humanitarian aid is a moral imperative. i regret, of course, that the budget allocated for the period 2014-2020 has been sharply reduced compared to the commission's initial proposal, thus reducing the number of volunteers to be deployed. i also take this opportunity to express my concern at the lack of resources available to dg echo to meet the growing humanitarian needs. we are aware of the current problems of late payment at echo. i am confident that this initiative will be a success and will help the most vulnerable people. to this end, the impact of eu aid volunteers in the humanitarian sector and the cost-effectiveness of the programme will of course be regularly assessed.
member of the commission. - madam president, i am very humbled by the expression of support that has been given to the eu aid volunteers. i would just like to make three points, two in reaction to the comments and one in closing. in reaction to the comments, i have heard some concerns about the way the eu implements development initiatives and whether or not the eu aid volunteers will contribute to development. i just want to stress that we have worked on creating a corps where people would be competent and qualified to help others, but also to help others to help themselves. we have included in our concept a total of 7[nbsp ]000 locally trained volunteers so that we can also contribute to local capacities to cope with disasters and with increasingly unpredictable forces of nature. secondly, a couple of comments were made on visibility and on how to make people know about good news. we are currently working very hard on this initiative and are receiving a lot of support from parliament to make it more visible. tomorrow at 16.00, ms striffler and i shall have a twitter chat, so if you want to participate in it you are very, very welcome. but on a more serious note, it is very hard to break good news. it is much easier to bring attention to a disaster when it happens than to work on preventing it. this is exactly why, in all we do in humanitarian aid and civil protection today, we also emphasise very strongly the role of investing in preparedness and prevention. hard as it is, it must be done so that fewer people suffer tomorrow, so that there are fewer victims. my closing comment is that the hard work begins now. we now have to make the implementation of this initiative a reality. i am very pleased to say that we have enormously expanded support among humanitarian organisations. initially they were a little sceptical of this initiative, but now that they have participated in the design, they are on board. i have the confidence that what we will do will indeed help europe to be a force for good in the world. it would help our image as europeans; it would ultimately help the competitiveness of europe as a region that is rich not only in resources and in money, but very rich in people and values. this is what gives me the greatest satisfaction of the work we do together.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i will conclude in a few words, since everything has been said. it is true that there were some initial reservations about the ngos and the safety of these volunteers, but in this report you will see that we have really addressed all these concerns, all these questions. i would like to thank all the political groups and the fictitious rapporteurs because this is a joint effort. i would also like to thank my assistants and our commissioner, mrs georgieva, and her assistants. it has been a very pleasant and long-term work which has brought a new tool, real added value and, i would like to repeat, which has really brought about that european citizenship which we so badly need.
the creation of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps is a remarkable initiative in many ways. first, it allows the eu to export these values by providing direct aid to the victims of humanitarian disasters. first by trying to prevent the risk of humanitarian disasters and then by going to the place to help the victims. secondly, it enables many young people to gain professional experience in volunteering. thirdly, this european voluntary humanitarian aid corps will give a positive image to the european union, which is too often beset by all kinds of ills. i regret, however, that the budget as proposed by the european commission has been reduced. but the benefits of this european body, which will guarantee a stronger, more visible and more humane europe, are clear.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i particularly welcome the opportunity to participate on behalf of the council in this year's debate on the european semester. the european semester is one of the key tools we have to help boost growth and jobs in europe. parliaments are vital players in the european semester process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to congratulate you on the important work that the european parliament has done in various aspects of the european semester, both this year and in previous years. we have three resolutions with detailed analyses and very specific recommendations. i would also like to take this opportunity to share with you what we are doing in the council and where we think the priorities are. the starting point must be the european council. as you may know, the european council of december 2013 provided for the first time guidance on the policy priorities covered by this year's european semester. the participation of the european council is a very welcome development and underlines the political importance of the european semester process. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in its 2014 annual growth survey, the european commission proposed five priorities, which were endorsed by the european council in december 2013. the council is now working further to help member states implement these priorities. i therefore welcome the support of the european parliament for these priorities. the second point i would like to stress is our common emphasis on implementation, on implementation. the 2014 annual growth survey presented by the commission provided a useful analysis for the implementation of the country-specific recommendations. the council intends to monitor closely the question of their implementation. i would also point out that this is an important issue for the european parliament as well. i think that focus on implementation is starting to pay off. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the commission's analysis highlights the considerable work still to be done in implementing the country-specific recommendations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the economic affairs council (ecofin) last week discussed the macroeconomic and budgetary aspects of the european semester. he stressed that all member states must remain firmly on the path towards sustainable budgets. the economic affairs council also called for greater attention to be paid to the quality and composition of fiscal adjustment, the shift of taxes away from labour, the modernisation of public administration and the priority of public expenditure that increases growth potential. the same priorities are reflected in the text of your resolution. to achieve sustainable growth, we also need to restore lending to the economy, liquidity. and that is starting to happen, thankfully. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that this is a matter to which the european parliament also attaches particular priority. the economic affairs council last week also placed particular emphasis on promoting growth and tackling unemployment. as we begin to see the end of the crisis period, it is vital to stabilise the stagnant, somewhat fragile recovery and above all to ensure that growth brings with it increased employment rates. the main priorities underlined by the ministers include reforms to promote competitiveness in labour and goods markets, increased competitiveness and infrastructure investment in network industries, strict implementation of the services directive and the opening up of closed professions, as well as improving the business environment. these priorities were further underlined by the ministers responsible for the internal market and industry at the competitiveness council last week, which sent a strong message on opening up the services sector and on addressing the impact of high energy prices on industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european council of december 2013 set a clear agenda for the council and the member states. we must act on both the demand side and the supply side. this means further incentives for job creation and measures to increase participation in the labour market. these should help the unemployed to find work, but also extend the period of employment and increase labour market mobility. we also need measures to ensure that labour costs reflect the productivity gains. the ministers of labour will return to these priorities when they meet on 10 march 2014. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up again in the next few days. however, i would like to stress that while the implementation of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative remain among the priorities of the european semester framework, they are not sufficient in themselves. ministers of education met on monday 24 february 2014 and agreed on the importance of investing in skills. this includes key skills such as those developed by combating illiteracy, as well as all digital skills that are essential for the workplace of the future. this requires more investment in the adaptation of education systems. this also requires the promotion of greater cooperation between the world of work and the world of education. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have covered a wide range of issues relating to the european semester process. as i said at the beginning, in many of them we share the same views, both as regards the objectives and the means of achieving them. however, i am now waiting to hear your views, which i will inform the council of.
president of the commission. - mr president, first of all, and since this is the first time i have had the opportunity to speak to this parliament after the dramatic developments in ukraine, allow me to say a few words about the situation in that european country which we feel is so close to us now. we were all shocked by the images of dead people and violence in kiev. our number one priority was to stop the bloodshed and create the conditions for a political process that can deliver what the ukrainian people most wish for: democracy, respect for fundamental freedoms, and a better prospect for the country’s future. a lasting solution to the political and institutional crisis can only be achieved through an inclusive transitional government that respects the different political and regional sensitivities, and through constitutional reform and democratic elections as laid down in the agreement of 21[nbsp ]february. ukraine’s unity and territorial integrity needs to be respected. the high representative is currently in kiev speaking to all political forces, rada representatives and civil society to assist in this process. we also remain committed to supporting ukraine’s path towards political and economic reforms. we are already working together with the international community and international financial institutions to find ways to support the country. i launch from here an appeal to all our international partners, and in particular russia, to work constructively with us to guarantee a united ukraine that can be effective for stability in the european continent, a ukraine that will have good relations both with its western and its eastern partners. the winds of change are knocking again at ukraine’s doors. the will of the people must prevail. let me now turn to the topic of today’s discussion, the european semester. first of all, i would like to acknowledge the hard work of the three rapporteurs, philippe de backer, sergio gutiérrez prieto and sergio gaetano cofferati, as well as of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which allows us to have this timely debate today. i would also like to thank the greek presidency for their commitment and the comments which the minister for european affairs has just made. the european semester goes to the very heart of what has preoccupied us all especially from the outset of the financial crisis – our economy. how can we make our economy recover again? how, in fact, can we work together for employment in europe? these are the issues that our citizens expect us to address – jobs and growth. a year ago, some were still talking of the collapse of the euro, some were even speculating about the disintegration of the european union. i think we can say that, together, we have proved that the prophets of doom were wrong. this is the year in which we are moving away from recession. the recovery is expected to continue and to become more robust during this year and to strengthen further in 2015. consumer confidence and investment confidence is now positive. industrial investment seems to be picking up. instead of expressing concern, leaders outside europe congratulate us on our resilience and for our political willingness to act. they also congratulate us on the necessary, courageous and often painful reforms that several member states have had to put in place. naturally, we know the situation is still difficult. tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis will take time and resolve. but the situation globally is improving and i do not think we should underestimate that fact. in a few hours, vice-president rehn will officially present our latest economic forecasts, and they will confirm that we are on the path of recovery. we have come a long way. the comprehensive response we gave to the crisis is bearing fruit. we have moved from pooled bilateral loans to greece in 2010 – in a situation of real emergency – which was the only possibility available at the time, to the european stability mechanism in 2013, which today has a capital of eur[nbsp ]700 billion! frankly, a while ago it would have been unthinkable to admit that member states could agree to create such a facility. we were able to provide financial assistance to member states in distress, or – in some cases – specifically to their banking sector. were it not for european solidarity, the economies of greece, ireland, portugal and cyprus would have collapsed, with the huge social consequences that such a collapse would have had. we also significantly reformed our financial sector, from new capital requirements to, more recently, the proposal on the structural reform of banks. we are about to conclude – and i certainly expect the strong support of parliament on this – the banking union which is a significant step in the deepening of economic and monetary union. and finally, we have overhauled the system of economic governance in the european union, particularly in the euro area. this has been done through legislation, co-decided with this parliament, giving us a strong foundation for taking both preventive and, if necessary, corrective action in the future. not only was budgetary surveillance strengthened, but the system was widened to cover macroeconomic imbalances. i think we can say that this was a strong set of achievements, which were possible due to the strong involvement of this house. while some of us would have liked to go further and faster, i believe it is fair to recognise progress in this area. the crisis has given us the political will to make the necessary changes that were politically unattainable and simply unimaginable five years ago! and in the most recent years all this has been done in a coherent european framework which is provided precisely by the european semester. throughout the crisis, the europe 2020 strategy has served as our compass, and the european semester as our main delivery tool. by introducing the european semester, we have ensured that coordination of member state economic policies takes place at european level, respecting of course the national competences. in difficult economic and political times, this has allowed for further transparency, effective dialogue and monitoring. the commission has also proposed that the social dimension be developed as an integral part of european union economic governance. a reinforced surveillance of employment and social developments is now a reality as part and parcel of the european semester. and rightly so. because we know how difficult the situation remains in many member states, especially with unemployment and youth unemployment so high. it is true that improvements in macroeconomic conditions are not yet being felt by citizens themselves and by their families in some of our member states. but at the same time, it would be politically inaccurate and, i think, intellectually dishonest to deny the progress we have made. we have, in short, started down the path of a deep and genuine economic and monetary union to fix the structural faults that lay hidden during the good times, and have now put in place a more sustainable model. these renewed foundations were laid down in just a few years and they play a key role in helping europe emerge from the crisis more resilient for the future and stronger. in all of this, and in spite of many of the debates, we have seen more, and not less, europe – in fact we have seen european integration make progress, particularly in the euro area– with calendars of economic and fiscal reporting and evaluation now synchronised, draft national budgets now seen at a european level, and a stronger role for the european institutions, including the commission. this was possible thanks to many of you in this parliament. honourable members have played a vital role in the european semester from the start. you insisted – and rightly so – on making the so-called six-pack and two-pack legislative, despite initial strong reservations by some governments, and you defended the community method on several key occasions. your role has thus gone far beyond improving the governance structures. along with national parliaments, you have brought democratic legitimacy, accountability and ownership. as we said last year in the blueprint for a deep and genuine economic and monetary union, economic governance, social commitments and democratic legitimacy must move forward hand in hand. tighter economic governance needs tighter democratic control. that is why i was delighted to take part in the european semester week in january which brought members of this parliament together with 140 national parliamentarians. and many of my colleagues in the commission, including both vice-president olli rehn, responsible for economic and monetary affairs, and commissioner lászló andor, responsible for employment, social affairs and inclusion, who are with me here today, actively participated in the economic dialogues you decided to organise. the european semester has not simply been about putting new processes in place. i have to insist on the process because it was, in fact, an innovation and it is important to make sure now that it will be consolidated for the future. but more important than the process is that it has led to concrete and significant fiscal and structural reforms that have helped restore confidence. it has added a strong economic dimension to a range of policies – from taxation, energy, transport, research, climate and environment, to judicial systems. this is very important politically because, as i have already said to you, during the most acute moments of the crisis, the big question that the markets and our partners put to us was not so much about the deficit of this or that country but was about our political will to work together, particularly in the euro area. by putting in place a system of increased coordination, i think europe has shown that there was a will – and there is in fact a will – to learn the lessons from the crisis and to avoid some of the mistakes of the past. i think we can say that the need for sound public finances is now entrenched. this was not the case some years ago. some governments believed that they could go on and on and on spending money that was simply not in their treasuries. deficits have been halved and significant structural reforms for more competitiveness are under way: reforms such as the modernisation of our labour markets and public administrations, or the youth guarantees that are being put in place to ensure that all young people under 25 receive a good quality offer of employment, continued education, an apprenticeship or a traineeship within four months of leaving formal education or becoming unemployed. this is a matter which i believe deserves support – strong support – and a sense of urgency, and governments should now implement the programmes on the ground. i very much welcome many of the recommendations in the reports being debated today. we should continue to look at ways to be more competitive: by making further progress on the single market and adopting the remaining proposals under single market act i and ii, in telecoms, transport, energy and the digital sector; by getting rid of the blockages in business and professional services, retail and construction; by cutting red tape and reducing regulatory burdens; and by improving access to finance for our smes. tax systems should be simplified further and the tax burden redirected away from labour. we should be more resource and energy efficient and invest more in research, innovation and development. because we cannot afford to sit back and relax. not only do we remain exposed to external risks, but we still have a long way to go in our own reforms and in deepening the economic and monetary union. we cannot honestly say that we have exited from the crisis whilst unemployment remains so unacceptably high, especially amongst our younger generation. we have a responsibility to deliver. that is why i want to see the european union budget used to its full potential. we must now get down to the business of extracting the biggest added value from every last euro that has been decided. through the european structural and investment funds, through horizon 2020, through erasmus+ and through the youth employment facility, the european budget focuses on jobs and growth, and it is the main source of investment funds for many of our member states. this budget is indeed a very tangible expression of european solidarity at work. i think it is also important from this parliamentʼs perspective. we all know that in many of our member states people now associate europe with austerity. i think that through the european budget and through the very important funds invested by europe in our regions, we can say that europe can be associated with solidarity because the european union is in fact providing very important resources to the regions that most need to achieve territorial, economic and social cohesion. responsibility to deliver reforms and to make the most of available funds now lies with the member states themselves. but all of us here have a responsibility to explain to europe’s citizens the reason for the reforms, and also to listen to them about the effects of those reforms. let me conclude by saying that we should take heart from what we have achieved so far, remembering where we are now and where we were five years ago, and also thinking about what the alternatives could have been. together we are emerging from the crisis united, open and, i believe, stronger. stronger because we are now preparing a new basis for the competitiveness of europe, because we are now drawing on all the lessons from the globalised world and what being ready to confront our partners in this much more competitive world means. but there is still much more to do under the european semester and europe 2020 strategy. and for those who question our approach and who question whether the european union is part of the solution – i believe that all of us who care about europe should welcome and engage in that debate. because europe does indeed need that political debate. because i believe that a renewed consensus will move us towards greater convergence, solidarity and cohesion. we are stronger together and it is together that we can better achieve our common aims: growth and jobs for europe.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner and mr president of the commission, i would first like to congratulate our fellow rapporteurs on the work they have done. i would say that they have done a good job in the extremely limited framework of this parliament's control of economic decisions taken in the euro area. let's not kid ourselves. in this connection, i would like to point out that it was the european parliament which introduced the role of national parliaments in the six-month period into legislation. the commission had thought of it, but we introduced it into legislation. this is to prove that we are not hostile to national parliaments. on the other hand, there is a problem we have to face in common with national parliamentarians: at the moment, democratic control of the decisions taken in economic and social matters in europe is unsatisfactory. this is seen, for example, when the commission carries out its annual review of growth. we are invited today to discuss; this is all very nice. you're going to publish the report; you're doing a job that's quite worthy. but, in the end, we have no impact. and on subjects that are as important to the citizens, i believe that this is not a satisfactory situation. i will not speak of the troika: we voted in the econ committee last night on a report which will be voted on in plenary shortly. i am ignoring the fact that the esm is not sufficiently controlled either. it is clear that we are faced with a situation in which we are doing our best here today, with you, with a lot of goodwill, but we are far below the democratic standards that this continent claims to honour. second, on the background. it is clear from the background that there are a number of problems, not least because there is no monitoring of the follow-up to certain decisions. in june 2012, the european council spoke to us about a growth pact and the document before us today shows clearly - and we regret - that the commission has not taken stock. what about all the announcements made by the european council, in which you are also taking part, mr barroso? where are we on the evaluation? there's always the statements in front of the press, but that's it. similarly, with regard to macroeconomic imbalances - which is one of the important areas for which you have responsibility - this report today invites you to consider that you must look at the whole picture and the contagion effects of countries on each other. mr barroso, i will conclude with a point on the banking union. you said you wanted results. we would like the commission to play its full role as guardian of the treaties. we are facing an attack from the finance ministers, who feel that they can appropriate a piece of the legislative work of this parliament and put it outside the community framework. mr president of the commission, what are you doing about this? are you just going to protest a little and say, "we have to be realistic"? or are you perhaps planning at some point to withdraw the text or to do something to indicate that this house cannot be deprived of its democratic rights? it's very nice of you to make some nice speeches about ukraine. we would be extremely happy if democracy were defended and the treaties, for which you are responsible, were defended within the european union.
blue-card question. – i just wanted to ask you whether you are sure that you are less predictable than the others, because we have been listening to you for five years and the only words you know – and i would like to improve my english by listening to you – are ‘less taxes, less red tape, deregulation, decentralisation’. what exactly do you propose for the future in a positive way? i would like to know.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, you told us that you were here to take our views and pass them on to the council. you know - and you remember - that the whole european semester was designed and put in place because of the weakness of the economic pillar of economic and monetary union. this pillar cannot exist without democracy at european level, nor without democracy at national level. that is the point of this debate, and that is why we are asking you to convey clearly the message that this parliament is actually sending to the council. i simply note that today the council is stuck in an intergovernmental approach which does not allow it to understand that there will be no democracy, no democratic debate on economic policy issues if you do not take seriously the contribution of this parliament in this debate on the european semester. and i want to see proof of that in the fact that, whether at the commission or at the council level, you continue to address these economic policy issues without really looking at the issues in terms of macroeconomic imbalances, or the interference between each other's economies, just remaining in a strategy of punishment or structural reform that you think some member states should put in place. i take as proof the words of mrs worthman-kool, who does not even see that, beyond the reform strategy courageously undertaken by a number of member states, no one will get away with it at european level unless we define a real growth strategy at that level, with a return to public and private investment that allows the return of employment. i would like to see this as proof that the proposals that the commission has put on the table to define social indicators are of course very welcome, but what is the use of having new indicators if we are not to draw conclusions from them in terms of economic policy orientation? and in this respect, mr president-in-office of the council, you yourself mentioned the importance of social investment, particularly in the field of education and training. but what are you doing, mr president of the commission, to make this necessary social investment consistent with your assessment of the member states' budgets and their reform strategy?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a golden opportunity to correct the many shortcomings of economic and monetary union. economic governance can no longer deny the collateral damage of the crisis. the macroeconomic monitoring must be strengthened by adopting new indicators: employment rates, income inequality, poverty, education expenditure, but also the ecological footprint. because, yes, the environmental impacts must be emphasized. let us take advantage of the german momentum to finally create a minimum wage and, tomorrow, a basic income in every european country, in order to cut the grass under the foot of social dumping! without convergence we shall not succeed in establishing a social europe. finally, we must demand democratic guarantees. if a state in danger of bankruptcy calls for help, it is up to the european commission to carry out the policies under the control of the european parliament. the question is simple: what is the barroso commission's share of responsibility in this unfair and opaque model of the troika? what about the austerity measures imposed? when will you really implement the green and energy transition that we need today?
mr president, we are all agreed here on the very principle of having a scoreboard for social policies in the context of macroeconomic surveillance. the more or less exhaustive, more or less binding, conclusion remains the same. the economic measures have been taken correctly, but now let us turn to the everyday problems of our citizens: the employment of young people, the fight against unemployment, the management of pensions - all these issues call for the same answer, namely greater social convergence within europe. we must not just talk about convergence, but we must put it into practice now, through public procurement and socially responsible tendering, through the voluntary promotion of more responsible and ethical behaviour by our companies through a social label or csr, through the same measures against social dumping and through better crossborder cooperation between social services, labour inspectors, youth mobility services and pension services. many tools are already in place, but they are underused due to national habits or lack of information. our fellow citizens doubt the usefulness of europe, because we are unable to show them that europe is not only an economic union, but that it is above all based on solidarity. the third countries we are helping know this, and the countries thirsting for democracy are demanding it. i will end with a quote from victor hugo: "the will can only be manifested by action". i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. the texts we are adopting in this house are proof of this.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr gutiérrez prieto for his report to the committee on employment and social affairs, which reminds us that the social and economic aspects are inseparable. we cannot discuss the coordination of the economic and budgetary policies of the member states without recalling that 24[nbsp ]% of the population of the european union is today threatened with poverty and social exclusion. the european commission and the member states must therefore propose new ambitious measures to guarantee decent jobs and incomes and to combat the phenomenon of the working poor. the austerity policies have had adverse social effects, which we cannot accept. the inclusion of social and employment indicators in the evaluation of the economic and budgetary policies of the member states is a step in the right direction, but it will only be a real step forward if these social indicators are given the same weight as economic indicators in order to reduce the inequalities of wealth, which are so high today. finally, the choices of economic policy orientation [nbsp]decisions that will directly affect the lives of citizens[nbsp] cannot be made without democratic control of elected officials and without dialogue[nbsp]... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, before we proceed to vote on mrs costello's report and the agreement which was drawn up in codecision, we need the commissioner to make a statement on behalf of the european commission on the fate of the social grocery shops under this new legislation.
in writing. i voted for the lifting of tadeusz cymanski's immunity, as all political parties advocate
in writing. to date, seven countries have received financial assistance and have agreed with the european commission on a macroeconomic recovery programme. these countries are the republic of cyprus, hungary, romania, latvia, portugal, greece and ireland. hungary, romania and lithuania are no longer part of this programme. i voted in favour of this text which will increase the co-financing for member states receiving financial aid. this increase will ensure that the necessary financial resources are made available in good time and will facilitate the proper implementation of the national operational programmes in order to get out of this economic crisis as quickly as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to help member states in financial difficulty to have the means to implement their projects under the fisheries sector policy. this report aims to promote conditions facilitating the management of eu funds, so as to encourage and accelerate investment and to boost projects essential for the socioeconomic recovery and development of the sector. four countries are mainly concerned: ireland, portugal, cyprus and greece.
in writing. with this text, we are allowing certain member states to continue to benefit from the union's co-financing at a higher rate in the fisheries sector. this is support for member states in financial difficulty and whose fisheries are an essential sector of their economy. this aid is rightly aimed at preventing these countries from seeing their fishing sector fall into a downward spiral and at preventing the union from being contaminated by the poor health of the sector in these member states. this is a necessary measure in the context of the conduct of an effective common fisheries policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will allow the commission to complete payments to the countries participating in the programme until the end of the 2007-2013 period. the continuation of the efforts made to ensure the proper implementation of the programmes under the european fisheries fund is particularly important in order to guarantee and safeguard investments in this sector. i am aware of the importance of fisheries in countries which have been hit hard by the economic crisis, such as spain and greece, and i welcome the adoption of this measure.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report amending the current regulation on the common fisheries policy to make the funding conditions more flexible for member states facing severe budgetary constraints. these amendments will make it possible to mobilise european funds to implement projects under the fisheries sectoral policy.
in writing. the proposal aims to release, in an early and increased manner, appropriations from the european fisheries fund for states in crisis. this possibility, which is open to states under a macroeconomic assistance and adjustment programme (currently cyprus, greece, ireland and portugal), needs to be extended in order to continue to be used. by proposing such a derogation from the european rules on co-financing, the commission is half-heartedly admitting that austerity policies paralyse states and deprive them of any possibility of investment and thus recovery, to the point of preventing any use of european funds that these states would need. the report also points to the need to prevent a downward spiral. this shows the absurdity of austerity policies, which force the commission to invent regulatory gas factories. it would be simpler and more rational to abandon austerity policies outright. nevertheless, i am voting in favour of this, in order to allow the states concerned to benefit from these few financial reliefs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is a technical and legal adaptation concerning decision-making, in particular by the european commission. this is to bring the procedures for delegated and implementing acts into line with the new treaties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the adaptation of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (articles 290 and 291 of the tfeu). it is very technical but will simplify procedures (omnibus i)
in writing. this text aligns a series of legal acts in the field of justice with the new competences of the european commission granted by the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i support the view of the european parliament that all the matters which have been dealt with under the old regulatory procedure with scrutiny should now be brought into line with the new legislative provisions. it is important to ensure the consistency of european legislation.
in writing. - today we adopted this own-initiative report, which proposes a set of criteria for the application of articles 290 and 291 of the tfeu. the provisions on procedure in each of the instruments which are to be amended will be reviewed in order to bring them into line with the criteria laid down in the treaty in good time, while parliament and the council will have the opportunity to indicate basic acts which they consider important to adapt as a matter of urgency. the commission will therefore be empowered to adopt implementing acts if they meet the criteria of article 291 tfeu and, if not, to repeal them if the powers conferred are not in accordance with the treaty.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the alignment of the provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny on the regime of delegated acts for 30 legislative acts.
in writing. the commission has committed itself to evaluate, by the end of 2012, the number of legislative acts containing references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny that were still in force at that date, in order to develop appropriate legislative initiatives and, on that basis, to complete the adaptation to the new legal framework. the purpose of this is to adapt the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (rpd) to articles 290 (delegated acts) and 291 (implementing acts) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). in both cases, the acts in question are of general scope and are designed to amend or supplement certain non-essential elements of the legislative act. i am voting against the technical implementation of a treaty which i opposed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is a technical and legal adaptation concerning decision-making, in particular by the european commission. this is to bring the procedures for delegated and implementing acts into line with the new treaties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the adaptation of legal acts in the field of justice providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (article 290 of the tfeu). it's very technical, but it'll simplify the procedures. (onibus ii) the following
in writing. this text aligns a series of legal acts in the field of justice with the new competences of the european commission granted by the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission is thus now empowered to adopt delegated acts where legislation refers to the former regulatory procedure with scrutiny. i support such an update of european legislation in the field of justice.
in writing. - as a result of the adaptation to article 290 tfeu of a number of legal acts in the field of justice, the commission will review the provisions concerning the existing legislative acts in each of the instruments it intends to amend. this adaptation concerns a proposal covering five legislative acts in the field of justice which still refer to the prc.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the alignment of the provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny on the regime of delegated acts for 5 legislative acts.
in writing. the commission has committed itself to evaluate, by the end of 2012, the number of legislative acts containing references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (rpd) that remained in force at that date, in order to develop appropriate legislative initiatives and, on this basis, to complete the adaptation to the new legal framework. this draft report concerns a proposal for five legislative acts in the field of justice which still provide for the use of the prc and for which the commission will now be empowered to adopt delegated acts. i am voting against the technical implementation of a treaty which i opposed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is a technical and legal adaptation concerning decision-making, in particular by the european commission. this is to bring the procedures for delegated and implementing acts into line with the new treaties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the adaptation of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (article 290 of the tfeu). it's very technical, but it'll simplify the procedures. (onibus iii) the following
in writing. i supported this text which aims to adapt a series of legal acts in the field of justice to the new provisions implemented by the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the aim is to remove all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny of legislative instruments and replace them with the possibility for the european commission to adopt delegated acts. this alignment of legal acts then leads to a better coherence of european legislation.
in writing. - this draft report, which concerns a proposal for 160 legislative acts in various fields, contains a limited number of amendments proposed by the specialised committees in their opinions. three proposals for regulations have been submitted adapting to article 290 tfeu a number of legal acts providing for the use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (rpd). the fact that these proposals were considered as a single package, subject to the same timetable, made it possible to complete the alignment process ideally by the end of the current legislature.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the alignment of the provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny on the regime of delegated acts for 160[nbsp ]legislative acts.
in writing. the commission has committed itself to evaluate, by the end of 2012, the number of legislative acts containing references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (rpd) that remained in force at that date, in order to develop appropriate legislative initiatives and, on this basis, to complete the adaptation to the new legal framework. this draft report is linked to a proposal covering 160 legislative acts in various policy areas for which the commission will now be empowered to adopt delegated acts. i am voting against the technical implementation of a treaty which i opposed.
in writing. oskar herics has the experience, competence and independence of mind required to be a member of the court of auditors of the european union, and i voted in favour of his candidacy in support of this report.
in writing. i voted for the ayala-sender report on the appointment of oskar herics, austrian candidate for the court of auditors; his appointment received a favourable opinion from the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i voted in favour of the appointment of oskar herics as a member of the european court of auditors because he has the necessary skills to carry out the tasks entrusted to him by this mandate.
in writing. oskar herics is a senior austrian civil servant. in his answers to the questionnaire for his appointment to the court of auditors, he developed a number of points which i found interesting: he recalled the importance of respect for national parliamentarians and national supervisory structures, and he said he was proud that one of his reports had served as the basis for a ban on speculation in the context of financial transactions carried out by public institutions. all of this is positive. however, mr herics remains an 'orthodox' budgetary figure and will not go against european and national austerity policies once he is in office. i cannot vote for his appointment, i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the häfner report on the amendment of rule 136 of the rules of procedure on the participation of members in sittings. article 136 of the rules of procedure concerns the attendance sheet. in its present form, it only distinguishes between members who are present at the sitting (on the basis of their signature on this sheet) and those who are not. it therefore takes no account of absences authorised by the president (and governed by the quaestors under rule 31 of the measures implementing the statute for members). the purpose of the proposal to amend rule 136 is to record in the minutes of each sitting the names of members whose absence is excused by the president, with the words 'excused' (for example: maternity or paternity leave).
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which seeks to record in the minutes of each sitting the names of members whose absence is excused by the president, with the words 'excuse me'. until now, the mandate of the european parliament did not include such provisions, so this will be the case, which is further proof of transparency vis-à-vis our fellow citizens.
in writing. - pursuant to rule 212, the afco committee has examined the proposal to amend rule 136 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament governing the attendance list. since the concept of justified absence is not covered by the legal provisions governing parliamentary term of office, it was proposed that the names of the members absent, justified by the president as 'justified absences', be published in the minutes of each sitting. in this way, members justified by illness, serious family reasons, a mission on behalf of parliament or paternity or maternity leave will no longer be considered 'absent'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report amending the rules of procedure of our institution to take account, in the minutes of the sittings, of the special situations for which members have been excused by the president of parliament.
in writing. this report proposes to amend the rule of procedure of the european parliament concerning participation in sittings to take account of duly justified absences by adding the words 'excuse me' to the minutes. it's not much. the report is silent on the criteria for justifying such absences. i was refused this exemption when i was in the court in bethune to attend the trial of marine le pen and myself in the case of the forged leaflets. the mention "excuse me" is thus subject to the discretion of the president of parliament, the fact of the prince. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which confirms the objective of a maximum co2 emission level of 95g per kilometre for new vehicles sold from 2020 and defines the conditions for the application of this provision. so we set the course, and it's essential for our automotive industry and our climate! however, as early as the debates in the parliament's committee on the environment, i had expressed my scepticism about the level of ambition: the criterion for calculating the distribution of effort between manufacturers should also have been reformed and not the "super-credits" to manufacturers multiplied. i also regret that germany, on the part of the member states, last summer thought it appropriate to challenge the agreement in preparation in order to obtain even more flexibility for its manufacturers. in fact, by adding flexibility to flexibility, we clearly run the risk of discrediting the objectives because we help the manufacturers to circumvent them... finally, although i would have preferred a mechanism with a more restrictive framework and less favourable to the most polluting manufacturers, i am pleased that the union is maintaining its overall ambition to reduce co2 emissions. manufacturers need to be prepared for this, especially with electric vehicles.
in writing. i voted for the ulmer report on co2 emissions from passenger cars, which validates the agreement reached in the trilogue. this agreement confirms the target of 95[nbsp ]g co2/km by 2020 but brings additional flexibilities (95[nbsp ]% of the fleet will have to meet this target at the beginning of 2020, 100[nbsp ]% only at the beginning of 2021, manufacturers will be able to use the "super credits" until 2022).
in writing. the purpose of this text is to amend european legislation in order to enable the european union to achieve the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars. the road sector is the second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in europe. efforts must therefore be made in this area. it is essential that the european union empowers itself to achieve a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by encouraging the production of cleaner and more fuel-efficient vehicles, while avoiding legal uncertainty with adverse effects on competitiveness and employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which has the effect of reducing co2 emissions by 2020 for new passenger cars. the environmental constraint is at the heart of this text, which reflects the union's will to make a lasting commitment to reducing co2.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement because it is a balanced and pragmatic text, free of the unrealistic objectives that some people want, and will benefit the environment, industry and consumers at the same time. the already very ambitious target of limiting co2 emissions to 95g per kilometre by 2020 was maintained, but with an additional deadline to give manufacturers more flexibility. the latter will also have to revise their test batteries in order to measure the consumption of vehicles more precisely. the mechanism of bonus payments, known as super-credits, has also been preserved. it will be in place until 2022 and allows manufacturers to accumulate 'bonuses' when they bring clean vehicles to market. it is a vital incentive mechanism which must encourage research into the vehicles of tomorrow, a field in which europe cannot afford to lag behind. in the face of the deindustrialization affecting our continent, and as social plans proliferate, i am glad that reason has prevailed. our citizens now expect europe to give priority to jobs and growth.
in writing. while cars are responsible for 12[nbsp]% of co2 emissions in europe, the european parliament has set new targets to reduce car-related pollution by 2020. new cars registered in europe will not be allowed to produce more than 95 grams of co2 per kilometre, compared to the current 130 grams per kilometre. this will reduce our co2 emissions by 15 million tons a year. with this measure we also want to encourage manufacturers to innovate in order to maintain the automobile industry in europe. manufacturers will be given time and flexibility to adapt their designs. while these new technologies come at a cost, they also represent a gain for consumers, who will be able to buy cars that consume only 4 litres of petrol per 100 km. i voted for this because i believe it is important to limit co2 emissions from road transport, which is one of the only sectors where co2 emissions are increasing.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which gives substance to the european target of reducing co2 emissions by 95g per km from new cars by 2020. this ambitious target will save 15 million tonnes of co2 emissions per year. for these savings to be effective, however, a new international test procedure for passenger cars will have to be implemented to take account of real driving conditions.
in writing. with this text, the european union is demonstrating a sad persistence in its policy of ecological inaction and the relegation of ecological issues to green capitalism. it is a text devoid of ambition and offers nothing that is relevant to the challenges of the 21st century. it is not enough to call out loud and loud for technical progress to save the day, thus justifying this lack of ambition and making ecological measures conditional on respect for sacred competition and the sound management of public finances. the fight against global warming requires ambitious and immediate objectives, which include measures to reduce the use of private cars. the large manufacturers must not be spared, as this text does, but must be made to face up to their ecological and social responsibilities. i vote against it.
in writing. the initial objective of this report was to further reduce co2 emissions from new passenger cars. the current limit of 160g co2/km will be reduced to 130g in 2015 and then to 95g from 2020. however, these considerations have resulted in a lack of ecological ambition, notably through the proposal for the 'super-credit', a system allowing manufacturers to artificially lower the average co2 emissions of their fleet by any vehicle emitting less than 50g co2/km. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. i welcome the outcome of this vote which sets out the ways in which co2 emissions from cars can be reduced to meet the targets. co2 emissions per km will be reduced to 95 by 2020, 95[nbsp]% of cars will be affected and a meeting clause is put in place to establish a new reduction target in 2015 for the post-2020 period.
in writing. the european parliament adopted on 25 february the revision of the legislation on the reduction of co2 emissions from new passenger cars, the target of which, adopted in 2008, is to reach 95 grams of co2/km by 2020. this is a revision for nothing because the revised legislation retains a lot of flexibility to achieve this objective. it does not set a new reduction target for the period after 2020. nothing is done to ensure that the co2 emission levels reported by car manufacturers correspond to the co2 emissions level in real driving situations, with emissions and consumption sometimes being 25%[nbsp ] higher than the advertised figures. supported by the two right-wing groups (epp and ecr), the liberals and the social democrats, this status quo benefits mainly the large-cylinder car manufacturers and does not encourage the automobile industry to innovate and reduce energy consumption. like the gue/ngl, i voted against this missed opportunity to demand a strong commitment from an industry that does not hesitate to call on the community for its restructuring and the social plans it is carrying out in this context[nbsp ] also missed opportunity to make a contribution to the fight against climate change.
in writing. brands play a vital role in today's economic world. they are a source of credibility and confidence for many european products, some of which are exported beyond the borders of the european union. the rules on trade marks must therefore be strengthened and modernised, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the revision of the european trade mark system. it's a good report.
in writing. with this text, we give the national authorities a wide margin of manoeuvre in the protection of trade marks and the fight against counterfeiting. this is in particular to facilitate cooperation between the internal market authorities and the national authorities while leaving the possibility for the member states to apply their legal framework where they consider it more efficient. i particularly appreciate the desire to prevent attempts to bring counterfeits and counterfeits from third countries into the european territory. these provisions are in the right direction, that of greater protection of european know-how and therefore of the member states.
in writing. globalisation of trade means that europe must constantly keep its enterprises up to date with market developments. by deciding to review its system of protection of community trade marks for its enterprises, in particular for its smes, the union has just corrected a legal vacuum in its legislation. customs authorities will now be able to prohibit the entry into the eu of goods bearing a community registered trade mark without authorisation. the new rules will also make registration cheaper, quicker and provide greater legal certainty. this modernisation of the community trade mark system was essential to cope with unfair competition from companies outside the community. this responds to a growing expectation of the 'trademarks' themselves to be better protected throughout the european territory. in 2012, 107 900 applications were filed, double the number registered by the european trade mark office 10 years earlier. as a reminder, the branded goods industry directly accounts for 21% of employment in europe and 34% of european gdp. it should be noted, however, that only generic medicines should be exempted, in view of the trips agreements of the wto allowing them to benefit from a specific regime.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which is about strengthening the community brand within the european union. i fully support the desire to streamline the procedures for applying for and registering european trade marks, given that national offices receive very few european trade mark applications. i also welcome the desire to increase legal certainty by clarifying certain provisions and removing certain ambiguities, as may be the case, in particular, with the affirmation of a clear definition of the community trade mark.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it will encourage innovation and entrepreneurship by making the systems for registering a community trade mark throughout the union more accessible and more efficient. it was important to reduce the administrative burden of registering trade marks and to streamline procedures to enable union entrepreneurs to innovate and invest in the creation of new trade marks. i am glad to see that this report also includes a reinforcement of legal certainty: the protection of intellectual property is a major issue for french and european companies.
in writing. - i am in favour of the revision of the ohim agency for the protection of a european trade mark, as defined and formulated in this report. in a context of sometimes haphazard regulation, there is a need for our entrepreneurs to feel protected and to see their products compete in global markets. i hope that the changes and improvements proposed for the hmis will really be an additional step for european products and strengthen the union's action in this area, as has already happened with the measure on 'made in'.
in writing. on tuesday 25 february, the european parliament set out new rules on trade marks and goods in transit to make the community trade mark more accessible to businesses in the european union. this european trademark simplifies the procedures and reduces the costs of registering the trademark in the various member states of the european union. i voted in favour of this text because european companies using trade marks represent about 34% of the gross domestic product and 21% of jobs in the european union; it is therefore important to simplify the registration of trade marks and to better protect them against counterfeiting.
in writing. a trademark is used to distinguish the products and services of a company. the laws of the member states on trade marks were partially harmonised by a directive in 1988 and then codified in 2008. in parallel with the national trademark systems, an autonomous system of unitary rights registration has been established, which produces the same effects throughout the european union. the community trade mark system and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) are responsible for providing assistance to trade mark and design actors in europe. the aim is to modernise the way in which community trade marks operate by means of legal harmonisation. the report proposes to involve parliament more closely in this procedure, in particular by reducing the number of delegated acts. i do not think that the introduction of these new rules will be a good thing, but i think that the commission should be aware of the fact that the new rules are not being applied in the same way as the old ones.
in writing. the commission presented at the end of march 2013 the proposal for the revision of the trade mark system in europe, which we adopted today. in less than a year we have reached a clear and balanced position. in this vote we have succeeded in restoring the balance broken by the court of justice in its nokia/philips judgment. the commission will be able to monitor goods which are in transit through the territory of the european union without being marketed there. it is important and legitimate for the eu to protect its citizens from goods that may harm their health or safety. it must also be able to guarantee its undertakings the highest degree of protection against the circulation of counterfeit products.
in writing. i voted in favour of the macovei report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds from crime in the european union. the main objective is to combat the mafia and the parallel economy of illicit networks. if this money were to be returned to the national budgets, there would be no more debt in europe, given the sums at stake.
in writing. this text takes bold action at eu and member state level in confiscating and freezing the proceeds of crime. we can count on the mutual recognition of decisions by states in this area to prevent and combat crossborder crime. these are the provisions necessary to combat criminal activities, not only at the level of the states but also in the field of cross-border cooperation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because, at a time when crime is reaching dangerous proportions in the european union, a strong reaction from the european union was needed. i therefore support the obligation on member states to allow the freezing of assets or instruments which are liable to be lost, hidden or transferred outside their jurisdiction, with a view to their possible subsequent confiscation. nevertheless, in the context of fair trial, i welcome the measures which are designed to guarantee respect for the presumption of innocence, the right to access to an impartial tribunal.
in writing. i fully supported the adoption of minimum harmonisation rules on the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime, as it is unacceptable that the bulk of the illicit profits made by organised crime should subsequently be reinjected into perfectly legal activities with impunity. it is a particularly useful tool for the return of criminal assets to public authorities. i also defended the provisions to create the possibility of reusing confiscated assets for social purposes, as is already the case in italy or ireland. the directive marks a clear step forward in the fight against organised and financial crime, but it is only the first step. the commission will shortly present a new proposal to harmonise the possibilities for confiscating illicit proceeds without a criminal conviction, a measure which has proved effective in countries such as italy, ireland, bulgaria and slovakia.
in writing. on tuesday 25 february, the european parliament adopted legislation to improve the efficiency of the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the member states of the european union do not use this tool sufficiently to fight organised crime, whereas the proceeds of crime amounted to no less than us$2.1 billion in 2009. the european parliament has therefore adopted rules to extend the confiscation powers of the member states. we've authorized the forfeiture of property acquired by a convicted person in connection with all of his criminal activities, including those for which he has not yet been convicted. we have also harmonised european legislation to allow all member states to confiscate the assets of a third party who hides the property of a convicted person. finally, assets can be frozen without waiting for a court order in an emergency to prevent criminals from taking the proceeds of their crime.
in writing. i voted in favour of the directive to strengthen the rules on confiscation of criminal assets. robin hood stole from the rich to give to the poor; with this bill, we confiscate from the mobs to redistribute to the citizens. confiscation is the most effective way we have of cutting off the grass under the feet of criminal and mafia networks. for all they care about is the profit they make from their illegal activities. money is always the lifeblood of war. and the millions of euros they accumulate are still at the expense of honest citizens.
in writing. the most effective method of combating organised crime is through severe legal consequences and effective detection and seizure and confiscation of the instruments and proceeds of crime. this directive lays down minimum rules for member states concerning the freezing and confiscation of assets of criminal origin by means of the following measures: direct confiscation, confiscation in value, extended confiscation, confiscation in the absence of a conviction and confiscation of assets of third parties. the national laws are unequal and therefore require appropriate harmonisation, if only to ensure full enforcement of confiscation. the adoption of these minimum rules will harmonise the freezing and confiscation regimes in force in the member states, thus enhancing mutual trust and the effectiveness of cross-border cooperation. the commission will also take steps to strengthen the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders, an important aspect of the fight against serious crossborder organised crime within the union. i vote for it.
in writing. this report concerns the european commission's proposal for a directive of 12 march on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in the european union. this directive lays down minimum rules for the member states in this field by means of direct confiscation, confiscation in value, extended confiscation, confiscation in the absence of a conviction and confiscation of assets of third parties. these minimum rules will make it possible to start harmonising the systems in force in the 28 eu member states. they will make progress towards the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation decisions, which are important aspects of progress in the fight against organised crime. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. organized crime, which knows no borders and is increasingly international, is primarily driven by profit. the fight against this crime, if it is to be effective, should therefore add to the serious legal consequences for criminals the effective neutralization of the related gains made through crime. yet, today less than 1 percent of the proceeds of crime - drug trafficking, counterfeiting, human trafficking, and small arms trafficking - are frozen and confiscated. sending criminals to jail while letting dirty money circulate is unacceptable! the purpose of this text, which i supported in today's vote, is to facilitate the confiscation of criminal assets in the eu. the new provisions include that member states must allow the confiscation of criminal assets following a final conviction, including where the convicted person is ill or has absconded; may confiscate assets acquired through criminal acts related to child pornography, cybercrime, or active or passive corruption in the private or public sector; must consider measures to enable confiscated property to be used for public or social purposes.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report because this dossier is a good example of the active role of the european parliament in the institutional game. the proposal for a directive was announced by the european commission after the adoption in 2011 of a report by the european parliament calling for effective regulation of asset forfeiture. the adoption of these minimum rules will harmonise the freezing and confiscation regimes in force in the member states, thus enhancing mutual trust and the effectiveness of cross-border cooperation. the commission will also take steps to strengthen the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders, an important aspect of the fight against serious crossborder organised crime within the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the confiscation of assets of organised crime. it is a very important text because it will enable the european union to better combat the activities of organised crime which, as many europol reports show, are on the increase within the european union. the assets of these mafia groups, obtained illegally, can now be more easily confiscated by the police following a conviction. all confiscated property will then be used for public benefit or social purposes. the amount of these earnings and related assets is estimated to be several hundred billion euros in the eu. currently, only 1[nbsp ]% of these assets are subject to confiscation. we must strike organized crime where it hurts, by attacking its profits!
in writing. brands play a vital role in today's economic world. they are a source of credibility and confidence for many european products, some of which are exported beyond the borders of the european union. the rules on trademark protection, both at european and national level, must therefore be strengthened and modernised, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the legislation of the member states on trade marks. it's a good report.
in writing. this text modernises community trade mark law by making it more flexible and thus more adapted to the diversity of eu trade marks. it provides for closer cooperation between the national authorities and the office for harmonization in the internal market. this measure therefore rightly gives the member states greater latitude in protecting their trade marks.
in writing. globalisation of trade means that europe must constantly keep its enterprises up to date with market developments. by deciding to review its system of protection of community trade marks for its enterprises, in particular for its smes, the union has just corrected a legal vacuum in its legislation. customs authorities will now be able to prohibit the entry into the eu of goods bearing a community registered trade mark without authorisation. the new rules will also make registration cheaper, quicker and provide greater legal certainty. this modernisation of the community trade mark system was essential to cope with unfair competition from companies outside the community. this responds to a growing expectation that the trademarks themselves should be better protected throughout the european territory. in 2012, 107 900 applications were filed, double the number registered by the european trade mark office 10 years earlier. as a reminder, the branded goods industry directly accounts for 21% of employment in europe and 34% of european gdp. it should be noted, however, that only generic medicines should be exempted, in view of the trips agreements of the wto allowing them to benefit from a specific regime.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, the main purpose of which is to modernise and improve the provisions of the current directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks. i can only encourage the desire to bring national trademark laws and procedures closer together. this will have the effect of establishing a set of specific rules for the registration and protection of collective marks.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it will improve and modernise the trade mark law currently in force, in the sense of better readability and greater legal certainty for our entrepreneurs. the new legislation will thus lead to a strengthening of cooperation between the national offices and the ohim and will make it possible to combat counterfeiting more effectively. the establishment of a safe and protective regulatory framework for brands was fundamental to fostering innovation and creativity, which are key to the competitiveness of our economy. trade mark proprietors must be able to rely on the customs authorities to act effectively when confronted with suspected infringement.
in writing. the european parliament, by adopting this directive on the laws of the member states relating to trade marks, intends to combat counterfeiting. a trade mark registered in a member state may prevent the importation of counterfeit goods into the european union; however, it will not be able to prevent the transit of counterfeit goods through the european union if the trade mark is not registered in the country of final destination. i voted in favour of these new rules, which do not impede international trade but allow for better control of goods entering the union. the protection of european consumers is essential, as a large proportion of counterfeit goods are everyday consumer goods, such as cigarettes or medicines.
in writing. the revision of the trade mark framework directive aims to preserve and strengthen the dual protection of trade marks in europe. some users seek protection in one member state only, while others want the same protection in all 28 member states of the union. the procedures should be harmonised so that these users are not forced to deal with completely different schemes in different member states. i want the same benefits for controlled designations of origin. i am voting for this text which will facilitate the establishment of a protectionist policy based on solidarity.
in writing. the commission presented at the end of march 2013 the proposal for the revision of the trade mark system in europe, which we adopted today. in less than a year we have reached a clear and balanced position. in this vote we have succeeded in restoring the balance broken by the court of justice in its nokia/philips judgment. the commission will be able to monitor goods which are in transit through the territory of the european union without being marketed there. it is important and legitimate for the eu to protect its citizens from goods that may harm their health or safety. it must also be able to guarantee its undertakings the highest degree of protection against the circulation of counterfeit products.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and training (europol). it aims to bring europol in line with the requirements of the lisbon treaty by establishing a mechanism for monitoring its activities by the european parliament, in association with national parliaments, and to ensure a robust data protection regime. the report also opposes the merger of europol with the european police college.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to amend the legislation applicable to europol, the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and training, in order to bring it into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty and to give it new responsibilities. in view of the increase in organised crime in europe, it is important to equip the european union with the appropriate instruments to combat this phenomenon. it is right to stress that effective cooperation between member states and law enforcement agencies is essential. however, i felt it was essential to put in place a strict framework to ensure a strong regime for the protection of personal data when they are transmitted to europol by the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which relates to the creation of the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation and training. in the present day, when crime is playing out across borders, it is essential to set up european training and exchange programmes for all law enforcement professionals. finally, i welcome the intention of this text to improve the governance of europol in the interests of greater efficiency.
in writing. by voting for this report, i opposed a proposed merger of europol and the european police college, proposed by the european commission, under the pretext of budget cuts but without proving the real benefits, and taking the risk of sacrificing the quality of the training provided. i also support the strengthening of democratic control of europol, as this is a recurrent demand of the european parliament, which would be achieved by the creation of a parliamentary control unit bringing together meps and national meps. unlike the epp rapporteur on this matter, i am particularly opposed to giving europol direct access to the personal data of our citizens. on the contrary, through the various amendments i have supported a strengthened personal data protection regime, thus taking into account the concerns expressed by the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. given the transnational dimension of crime, genuine european cooperation has become necessary to solve cases that are no longer purely national in scope. europol was created to bring together national police forces and coordinate their efforts. this agency is one of the concrete manifestations of what europe can do to fight crime, mafia networks and protect european citizens. however, up to now the european parliament has had little control over this agency and its objective, in the context of the negotiations on its statute and its tasks, is to restore the democratic legitimacy of europol, whose actions are unfortunately not recognised. the house also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals to improve the quality of the information it receives from the public. i would like to see europol given all the means it needs to carry out its tasks successfully and without hindrance. the protection and security of citizens must be the cardinal principles of the negotiations now under way between parliament and the council.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a directive to improve the efficiency and strengthen the monitoring of the activities of europol, whose role is to support the action of national law enforcement services and their mutual cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. the european parliament, in association with national parliaments, will now have to scrutinise the agency's accounts, be consulted on europol's multiannual work programme and hear its executive director. we have also taken several steps to improve cooperation between member states and europol so that the agency can facilitate information exchange and increase the efficiency of european intelligence. we have, however, put in place a number of safeguards to protect the data and privacy of citizens. finally, training activities for police forces will be strengthened and improved, in particular in the fight against cybercrime. i voted in favour of this text because it will make the fight against crime more effective, while ensuring the proper management of the europol agency and respect for the rights of citizens.
in writing. the mission of europol, as set out in article[nbsp ]88 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, is 'to support and strengthen the action of the police and other law enforcement authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime affecting two or more member states, terrorism and forms of crime which affect a common interest which is the subject of a union policy'. europol provides the exchange of information and intelligence on crime between law enforcement agencies in the member states (potentially very large personal data) and provides expertise and technical support. he also cooperates with the fbi (exchange of information, etc.). the aim is to extend europol's scope of application and give it greater operational autonomy vis-à-vis the states in line with the stockholm programme, an open and secure europe that serves and protects citizens . the report also proposes to allow access to private databases. i vote against it.
in writing. europol (european police office) is an intergovernmental criminal police office that facilitates the exchange of information between national police forces on drugs, terrorism, international crime and paedophilia within the european union. the report endorses the commission's proposal to increase europol's powers by increasing its powers and exchanges of information and by enhancing its independence. nevertheless, some interesting amendments have been made to make these changes more relative. the most significant concerns a strengthening of the protection of private data and the independence of europol, which is tempered by a strengthening of the powers of the ms authorities. the rapporteur also rejected the merger of europol and ecpol (european police college) following pressure from a majority of groups. although the report has thus been improved, i regret the weakening of europol's control over the protection of personal data. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. i abstained on the european parliament's report on the european union agency for police cooperation and training (europol). while european police cooperation may be necessary for a number of crimes and offences, it must be done in a way that respects the rights of citizens. the text adopted by the european parliament does not seem to me to provide the necessary guarantees and may be worrying. europol will now have almost total autonomy with relatively limited control by the member states and will de facto constitute a kind of supranational police. moreover, at a time when the prism nsa case has revealed to the world the capabilities of widespread surveillance by states, the issue of data protection is essential. this text opens up new possibilities for the collection of personal data at european level without the necessary guarantees being provided to european citizens. i welcome the rejection of an amendment by the european right which would have opened up additional possibilities for access to private sources. the european parliament's report seems to me to fall far short of what might be expected and even short of what is already in place.
in writing. i voted in favour of the wikström report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid training, voluntary service and peer work.
in writing. this text amends the legislation defining the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, paid and unpaid training, voluntary work and au pairs. it was important to establish a precise legal framework for the entry and residence of these third-country nationals in the territory of the european union. i support such a framework, particularly as regards their mobility within the european union and their access to the labour market. regulating these conditions of residence then makes it possible to better control migration flows.
in writing. i voted in favour of this provision, considering that it is the duty of the european union to promote the free movement of workers by guaranteeing a legal framework for vulnerable populations. as a vital force in the european union, i welcome the fact that young people can develop in a safe environment during their study or voluntary work abroad.
in writing. this specific admission procedure for third-country nationals for the purposes of scientific research, studies, pupil exchanges, paid training or voluntary work is an aberration. the commission and parliament are proposing a new leap forward in the opening up of europe, with family reunification being opened up to all these categories, while unemployment, especially among young graduates, is endemic in most member states.
in writing. i welcome the new rules that the european parliament wants to put in place regarding the conditions of entry and residence of foreign students and researchers. the socialist and democratic group thus wants to strengthen the international openness and attractiveness of the european education and research area. immigration from third countries represents a pool of highly qualified people that the union must be able to attract. in addition to harmonised and simplified provisions, this framework will make it possible to combat effectively the risks of exploitation and unfair competition in the labour market. finally, this text is perfectly in line with the progressive vision we are advocating for the opening of legal pathways to immigration in the context of a comprehensive and coherent immigration strategy which can no longer be satisfied with repressive tools alone. the european parliament now has the mandate to enter into negotiations with the council as soon as the member states agree on their position.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out the conditions for entry and residence for more than 3 months for third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, pupil exchange, training, voluntary work and au pairs. to remain competitive, the european union must attract the best students and researchers, while ensuring that working conditions are sufficiently regulated to prevent such a workforce from creating unfair competition in the european labour market. this directive updates european legislation by extending it to trainees and au pairs. it also provides for simplification of admission procedures and reduction of response times for researchers in order to make emigration more attractive for highly qualified people. students and researchers will have the possibility to stay in the member state for 12 months after the end of their studies or research to look for work or to set up a business. however, we have imposed many conditions to verify the validity of applications for residence permits: documents to be provided, proof of means of subsistence, health insurance, etc.
in writing. we need to provide a framework for researchers, students, volunteers and au pairs who wish to come to europe. they contribute to our economies and societies and we must facilitate their arrival while preventing and punishing any abuse of this right.
in writing. this directive is a recast of the directives on a specific admission procedure for third-country nationals for the purposes of scientific research and for the purposes of studies, pupil exchange, unpaid training or voluntary work. the new proposal adds two new categories: paid trainees and au pairs. their inclusion in the directive under consideration is intended to help prevent exploitation and undeclared work. the directive seeks to develop the human factor which 'is one of europe's main assets' by facilitating visas and residence permits, mainly for researchers and students from outside the european union. but these facilities remain strictly conditional. thus, residence permits can be withdrawn 'when students do not make sufficient progress in their studies in accordance with national legislation or administrative practice'. in these circumstances, it is clear that this is a very restrictive and humiliating control procedure for the intellectuals concerned. i'm not going to.
in writing. this report concerns a directive to recast and merge directive 2005/71/ec on a specific procedure for the admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of scientific research and directive 2004/114/ec on the conditions of admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, pupil exchange, unremunerated training or voluntary service. the new proposal adds two new categories (paid trainees and au pairs) which were not covered by the directives until now. including them will thus help to prevent exploitation and undeclared work of which these nationals are victims. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. with these new rules, the socialists wanted to strengthen the openness of the european education and research area. immigration represents a pool of highly qualified people that the eu needs to attract. the text adopted is in line with the progressive vision of a migration policy advocated by the socialists, which cannot be satisfied with repressive instruments alone.
in writing. the conditions of entry and residence of certain third-country nationals (listed in the title of the report) were, until now, regulated by two separate directives. it goes without saying that the procedures for admission, the granting of visas, the procedural guarantees and the rights enjoyed by these nationals needed to be improved. this was the aim of the merger of these two directives proposed by the commission, which extended their scope to include trainees and au pairs. a majority of meps wanted to go further by improving the protection granted and the conditions of residence. this is the case for the period of residence granted after completion of studies and the right to family reunification. this will be a small plus for a number of migrants living in the eu. this is to be welcomed, even if, in view of the targeted categories, it is clear that this report is based on a very utilitarian view of migration, with the barely concealed aim of plundering the "brains" of third countries.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which provides a legal framework that is both safe and virtuous with regard to the conditions of entry and residence of non-european nationals. the idea is obviously not to decide whether to open or close our borders. europe has historically been a land of transit and reception, and the eu's humanist values forbid us from turning in on ourselves. it is really a question of focusing on the mobility of socio-professional categories which are strategic for the european economy and for the economies of our neighbours: students, researchers, academics and business tourists. the report does not grant indefinite residence permits or unlimited travel, but sets out clear rules: anyone who wants to come to europe to study, teach or do business is welcome for a certain period of time. i have always been opposed to community practices which would lead, for example, to condoning the brain drain of young people from the countries of the southern mediterranean: to welcome students from the maghreb for the duration of their studies, yes, but not to deprive our mediterranean partners of their vital forces!
in writing. i voted in favour of this initiative, for which i drafted the opinion of the employment committee, because volunteers will be able to bring real added value to the eu's humanitarian action. their deployment will be through humanitarian organisations certified by the commission in accordance with european standards for the management of volunteering in humanitarian projects. the project will be implemented in the framework of the european solidarity corps (esc) and the european solidarity corps (esc) and will be supported by the european solidarity corps (esc). for the period 2014-2020, nearly 4,000 volunteers will be deployed to disaster-affected countries.
in writing. this text establishes a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps as provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in the face of the increasing scale of natural and man-made disasters, it is important to structure the eu's humanitarian aid and to define clearly the status and the modalities of the eu aid volunteers' actions. it is of the utmost importance to ensure adequate protection of european volunteers and their safety during their missions. the professionalisation aspect of these experiments should also be enhanced by a certification procedure.
in writing. volunteering is a concrete and visible expression of solidarity which allows individuals to devote their knowledge, skills and time to the service of others without financial motivation. the idea of the european voluntary humanitarian corps is to enable citizens of the union to provide practical support to people affected by natural or humanitarian disasters around the world. or even to meet the needs of organizations that are already working in the field. in the first phase, for the period 2014-2020, this programme could involve 10,000 volunteers. in concrete terms, the commission will develop european standards for the management of volunteers involved in humanitarian projects, as well as a european training programme. after training, the volunteers will be sent out to serve in the world. a network will be set up to enable them to exchange experiences and support each other before, during and after the interventions. others will also be able to participate in these projects through online volunteering (to support volunteers already on the ground or to help humanitarian organisations by working from home). i welcome this initiative which is in the direction of a people's europe and the promotion of our values.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows eu humanitarian aid volunteers to encourage joint activities. the participation of volunteers from different countries in joint projects promotes transnational partnerships between the organisations responsible for their implementation, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it will give new opportunities for citizens to invest in the humanitarian sphere. the text thus gives all citizens the opportunity to put their expertise at the service of humanitarian aid, through organisations certified by the european commission. this new european volunteer corps will have a budget of almost €148 million for the period 2014-2020 and is estimated to deploy around 4 000 volunteers over the same period. the european union has a major role to play on the international stage and must be able to plan and react quickly to humanitarian crises. the report thus seeks to strengthen and promote volunteering and solidarity among citizens so that everyone's skills can be mobilised around large-scale pan-european projects.
in writing. this report is part of the eu's good faith operation to rely on 'volunteers' to provide solidarity with third countries in the event of natural or man-made disasters. instead, the training of professionals and public services should be guaranteed to meet the needs in the member states and other countries. on the contrary, it is preferable to call again on individual solidarity or charity. the 'volunteer corps' would also be responsible for 'presenting the union in a positive light in the world' and 'contributing to european citizenship'. we should better be inspired by the examples of solidarity in latin america with the sending of medical brigades, literacy, educators, etc., instead of going to "preach the good word" about the benefits of the excessive liberalism implemented by the eu. however, because the regulation allows for the funding of a number of volunteers, whose work is to be commended, i abstained.
in writing. i would like to welcome the vote by my colleagues in favour of a new european humanitarian aid volunteer corps. the european volunteers are very numerous, but sometimes their resources are limited. this new body would ensure better coordination of efforts and, consequently, greater efficiency in the humanitarian action of european volunteers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which establishes a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. the establishment of this structure is very beneficial for the humanitarian mission of the european union and makes it possible to develop a common action of solidarity of european citizens. the latter, through ngos certified by the commission, will follow a training programme of the european commission. once the training has been validated, the volunteers will be entered in a register kept by the commission.
in writing. in 2012, the european commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps (eu aid volunteers). these volunteers will be deployed in humanitarian aid operations in third countries following man-made crises or natural disasters, excluding the contexts of armed conflict and internal unrest. for once, it is about promoting solidarity, but at a low cost. instead of calling into question the union's policies at the root of humanitarian crises or sending in people who are really trained (doctors, educators, etc.), we will send our young people, who are paid little or nothing, to look for a soul mate. i'm not going to do this charade.
in writing. this report concerns the proposal for a european commission regulation on the establishment of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps (eu aid volunteers). this effective and visible humanitarian corps should contribute to strengthening the union's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises in third countries. this is the number of people to be deployed over the period 2014-2020. these volunteers will receive a specific training programme to prepare them for their assignment. the report proposes to grant these young people the status of 'certified eu aid volunteers' at the end of their first deployment. an interim evaluation report is also planned, assessing the impact of eu aid volunteers in the humanitarian aid sector and the cost-effectiveness of the programme. this voluntary programme will strengthen european solidarity with regions in difficulty, while providing volunteers with a most enriching human experience. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this report is above all an expression of the union's humanitarian values and its solidarity with people in need. it shall thereby contribute to strengthening the union's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises. the aim is to ensure that volunteers bring real added value as their deployment will be based on identified needs in the field and their role will be clearly defined. i have also decided that the deployment of volunteers will not be carried out in conflict zones, but only in countries affected by natural disasters. participation in this voluntary corps is open to all european citizens, regardless of age or professional or academic qualifications. i have also decided to open this programme to retired people who can bring real added value to the field through their various professional experiences, for example. i wanted this body to respect diversity and to benefit as many people as possible. i would also like to stress that this initiative will help to fill some of the gaps in current humanitarian volunteering and will also contribute to raising public awareness and the idea of european citizenship.
in writing. i, along with many colleagues, expressed my strong disagreement when it was proposed, for legal reasons, to abolish the european programme of aid to the most deprived (pead). our mobilization has borne fruit because it has allowed this financial support to the networks of support for the most deprived (in france: the red cross, the restaurants of the heart, the food banks, the popular relief) to be perpetuated through a transfer of the relevant funds from the cap to the social policy of the european union (european social fund), which has made it possible to lift the legal blockage encountered until then. i am therefore very pleased that the european development fund is being confirmed as a european fund for the most deprived (efad) with the same resources as in the past, and i therefore voted enthusiastically for this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this fund because, after many months of negotiations and doubts, the associations that help those who suffer the most will be able to guarantee that they will be financially supported by keeping the budget for the fead for the period 2014-2020 at its current level of eur 3.5 billion. the fead will support food donations (collection, transport and distribution of food), waste reduction and support for initiatives contributing to a balanced diet. the fund will help us to achieve the europe of solidarity we want, which will meet the needs of our fellow citizens.
in writing. the vote on the european fund for the most deprived for the period 2014-2020 is a success, a great victory for the european parliament. we have fought tirelessly to maintain a programme which will benefit millions of europeans. beyond its practical usefulness in combating the most serious forms of poverty, it was essential that the eu should, by this commitment, respect the principle of solidarity which has always been at the heart of the european construction.
in writing. in 2011, almost 120 million europeans, or nearly a quarter of the total european population, were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. in the face of such a social emergency, the creation of a european fund for aid to the most deprived (fead) was essential. it is one of the only solidarity instruments in the european union that is directed at the poorest and it is a concrete expression of europe's commitment to solidarity with its most vulnerable citizens. for the period 2014-2020, the fead will be appropriately endowed, i.e. at an amount not below the current level of the fund. it will also retain its mandatory character, i.e. if member states decide not to use the fund, the budget must remain available for the poorest. it is essential to show citizens that the fight against poverty and social exclusion is at the heart of the european union's objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to release funds to combat food deprivation, poor housing and material deprivation of children. i welcome the obligation to carry out activities which complement the material assistance given to the partner organisations, which will guarantee the proper use of these funds.
in writing. i supported this report because i have long been campaigning for the maintenance of the european fund for the most deprived (efad). eur 3.5 billion will be allocated over the period 2014-2020 in addition to basic food and material assistance, the implementation of social inclusion measures and the deployment of a policy to combat food waste. i welcome the position of the european parliament, which has been able to stand up to the member states and defend the values of social europe.
in writing. at its traditional plenary session in strasbourg, the european parliament approved the creation of the new european fund for the most deprived, which will be endowed with €3.5 billion over the next seven years. when 8.8 million french people live below the poverty line, including nearly 15% of the population in auvergne, the european union cannot remain indifferent to this sad and harsh reality. european aid in the wake of state intervention is therefore fully justified. since 2011, i have been working to preserve food aid for charities and to respond to needs that have emerged during times of crisis. the new fund will finance food and material aid, as well as housing for the homeless, children, single women and all populations in very precarious situations.
in writing. on 25 february, the european parliament adopted the european fund for aid to the most deprived (efad) for the period 2014-2020. with a quarter of the population of the european union at risk of poverty, it was essential to maintain a mechanism to help and reintegrate the most vulnerable. meps have been working for months to save the fund, which some member states were threatening to abolish. in march 2013, i had managed to convince the members of the agriculture committee to vote for the maintenance of a budget of 3.5 billion euros instead of the 2.5 billion proposed by the european commission. the european parliament as a whole then defended this position and convinced the member states to allocate €3.5 billion to the fund for the period 2014-2020. i voted in favour of this fund, which will fund between 85 and 95 per cent of national programmes to combat food deprivation, homelessness and the material deprivation of children. it will also finance accompanying measures to reintegrate the most excluded people into the world of work.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text, one of the challenges of which was to maintain a european programme for the poorest until 2020 without reducing the budget as requested by the member states. the eu budget is maintained at eur 3.5 billion for the next seven years. the eafrd will continue its food aid operations, including material assistance for children and social integration measures for the most deprived. the text is immediately applicable and will apply to all member states.
in writing. 120 million europeans (one in four) are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 43 million are no longer able to meet their food needs, 19 million are on food aid to survive, 5 million are homeless. this is the record of the union's economic policy! the european fund for the most deprived is intended to support the operation of the schemes put in place by the member states to provide foodstuffs to the most deprived persons and clothing and other basic goods to the homeless and children suffering from material deprivation. the agreement provides that the scope of the fund will be extended to include two operational sub-programmes to provide food and basic material assistance, as well as social inclusion measures for the most deprived. it also adopted the european parliament's position on the co-financing rate for the programme at 85% of eligible expenditure and up to 95% for the member states most affected by the crisis. finally, the budget of 3.5 billion requested by the parliament in june 2013 is retained. there's been a terrible battle here, including against the chairwoman of this committee. i vote for it.
in writing. we voted this morning to increase the european fund for aid to the most deprived (fead) to eur 3.5 billion. i am proud that my report for an opinion on this fund to the committee on regional development contributed, along with others, to this result, when at one point many considered that it was no longer possible to reverse the trend and resigned themselves to a reduction of this fund of 1 billion euros. that would have been a disgrace to europe. this is proof that when we move forward here in the european parliament in a determined and united way on the basis of a correct position, it is possible to achieve a result and to bring the heads of state to their knees.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has finally adopted the european fund for aid to the most deprived (efad), which succeeds the european programme of aid to the most deprived (pead) established in 1987. i believe this is a fundamental step towards meeting the needs of the 125 million europeans at risk of poverty or social exclusion, or nearly a quarter of the population of the european union. in the text we approved in plenary, its budget is maintained in relation to the previous period: the eafrd will be allocated eur 3.5 billion for 2014-2020. in practical terms, it will provide, through two separate operational programmes, basic food and material aid and social inclusion measures for the most deprived.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has finally adopted the report on the european fund for the most deprived, which i of course supported, as it is the culmination of a long mobilization, in particular of associations for the maintenance of the budget allocated to food banks and the most deprived persons. while the committee on employment and social affairs was seeking to reach a consensus with the european council on a budget of €2.5bn, my colleagues and friends from the gue/ngl, meps younous omarjee and patrick le hyaric, opposed such a reduction. at the previous plenary vote in june 2013, they proposed a new amendment clearly stating that the budget should be kept at €3.5 billion. this amendment was adopted almost unanimously by the european parliament, and the european council immediately revised the amount allocated to this fund to 3.5 billion euros for 7 years as demanded by the european parliament. if this is a victory, there's still a lot to do. a quarter of citizens still live below the poverty line across the european union, and it is high time we stood up for the poorest of our fellow citizens.
in writing. this text clarifies certain provisions of the regulation adopted in 2012 to regulate the use of potentially toxic biocidal products. i therefore voted in favour of these amendments in the margin.
in writing. i voted in favour of the groote report on the proposal for a regulation on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, as regards certain conditions for market access. biocidal products are a group of products intended to destroy, repel or render harmless harmful organisms, to prevent their action or to combat them by chemical or biological action. the main objective of this regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of humans, animals and the environment by limiting the placing on the market of only effective biocidal products presenting acceptable risks and by encouraging the placing on the market of active substances presenting less risks.
in writing. this text sets out the changes needed to streamline market access and use of biocides (antibiotics, anti-parasitics, etc.). it provides for greater consistency in legislation on the labelling and classification of biocidal products by harmonising them. this is a welcome development for the protection of human and animal health and the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which introduces provisions to remove barriers to market access faced by suppliers of new products treated with biocidal products. this report also sets out data protection periods for the biocidal products with the best profile, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which includes a number of technical adjustments to the text adopted on 22 may. these amendments will bring the necessary legal clarity and certainty to the sector concerned and to the general public.
in writing. the european commission simply wanted to correct what it calls an 'unintended effect' of previous legislation on biocidal products (disinfectants, insecticides, etc.). parliament's report takes this opportunity to tighten up the legislation on this subject a little. it thus adds 'specific toxicity' to certain target organs in the criteria used to classify products according to their hazard to humans. this was a scandalously overlooked criterion in the previous legislation! the text is broadly in line with reality, but it is far from a ban on products which are dangerous to the health of applicators, consumers and the environment. i'm not going to.
in writing. biocidal products include pesticides, antiparasitics and antibiotics. the aim of this text is to rectify certain provisions of the previous regulation in order to bring greater clarity and legal certainty to the member states, the sector concerned and the general public. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in 2012, the european parliament and the council adopted a regulation on the making available on the market and use of chemical substances, such as pesticides, antiparasitics and antibiotics for medical, veterinary, domestic or industrial uses, disinfectants, etc., a product family also known as biocides. since the adoption of the regulation, the commission has identified a number of errors, in particular technical ones, and has therefore proposed to make corrections and clarifications before the regulation is applied. i supported the european parliament's report on the amendments to be made to this regulation because it seeks to address the shortcomings identified and to improve the conditions for labelling, classification and packaging of these substances. given the dangers of these products, anything that goes along those lines deserves support. the effective implementation of these texts remains to be monitored.
in writing. i supported this own-initiative report because it calls on the european commission to propose to the member states a multi-level strategy on the persistent problem of violence against women, including a european legislative act on this issue. in addition, it is proposed to ask the council to activate the bridge clause in order to define violence against women (including female genital mutilation) as an area of crime, as set out in article[nbsp ]83 (1) of the feu treaty.
in writing. i voted for this report. i would remind you that between 20 and 25 per cent of women in europe have been subjected to physical violence at least once in their adult lives and more than 10 per cent have been victims of sexual violence. the news is full of such incidents, and each time it is scandalous. let's ask ourselves the question: is it good to be a woman today? beyond that, and in the face of such figures, we must act with strong action.
in writing. this text calls on the eu institutions to take legislative initiatives to strengthen the fight against violence against women in europe. between 20 and 25% of women in europe have experienced physical violence at least once in their adult lives and more than 10% have been victims of sexual violence including the use of force. this is not acceptable. violence against women takes many forms and is intolerable and we must fight against it relentlessly. it is necessary to ensure adequate protection for these women, who too often still do not dare to denounce the abuses to which they are subjected. it is essential to work towards a better awareness of this problem in europe and to cooperate with the member states in adopting appropriate legislation. finally, i reiterate my call for national ratification of the istanbul convention against violence against women.
in writing. gender-based violence today affects millions of women in the european union, of all ages and social backgrounds, and is often the result of stereotypes and attitudes that promote the superiority of men over women. i supported the report by mrs antonyia parvanova because it calls on the commission to present a european strategy and action plan to combat all forms of violence against women and girls and encourages the commission to take the first steps towards the creation of a european observatory on violence against women and girls. the report also recommends that the commission declare the next three years as a european year to end violence against women and girls, with the aim of raising awareness of the problem among citizens and all political leaders.
in writing. on tuesday 25 february, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling on the european union to take action against violence against women. the figures are worrying, with between 20 and 25 per cent of women in europe having experienced physical violence at least once in their adult lives and more than 10 per cent having been victims of sexual violence. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the european commission to propose a european legislative act on this issue and to establish minimum rules to punish violence against women severely in all member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which calls on the european commission to propose to the member states a multi-level strategy on the persistent problem of violence against women, including a legislative act on this issue. i believe that action in this area is essential when, according to studies on violence against women, between 20 and 25% of women in europe have been subjected to physical violence at least once in their adult lives, and more than 10% have been victims of sexual violence with the use of force.
in writing. this report proposes concrete measures to combat violence against women: access to free legal assistance, provision of specialised health care in public health facilities, a guarantee that perpetrators will be punished according to the gravity of the offence... the commission is also proposing a regulation on the prevention of violence against women. i am voting for this report and hope that it will be followed up by concrete action.
in writing. this own-initiative report follows on from the svensson report calling for the creation of a framework to combat violence against women. the report calls on the commission to present a legal framework to tackle this scourge by the end of 2014 while stressing the importance of prevention. the commission is also asked to launch the creation of a monitoring centre on violence against women and girls. although i regret that certain amendments were tabled which were likely to alter the quality of this report somewhat, i naturally voted in favour of it in order to strengthen the fight against this scourge.
in writing. currently in europe, between 20 and 25% of women have experienced physical violence at least once in their adult lives and more than 10% have experienced sexual violence including the use of force. domestic violence kills seven women every day in the european union! this violence can take many forms: violence by relatives, rape, violence related to dowry, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, prostitution, trafficking in women, etc. no form of violence can be justified by religion, culture or tradition. as we celebrate international women's day on 8 march, no crime of violence against women should go unpunished within the borders of the european union. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. nearly 25% of women in europe have experienced physical violence at least once in their lives and more than 10% have been victims of sexual violence. let us not forget that domestic violence kills seven women every day in the union. the report also calls for the adoption of a common definition of gender-based violence as a crime. the commission is called upon to propose a legal act laying down binding measures to prevent violence against women. despite repeated requests from the european parliament, there are currently no such measures in place. the commission also proposes to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of women against discrimination, to include the right to a fair trial and to ensure that women are not discriminated against. it is a report that is going in the right direction and is a good report. so i voted for the no-feelers.
in writing. european legislation is now negotiated on an equal footing by the european parliament and the council of ministers of the european union in almost all cases. only taxation is still the subject of legislation adopted by the council, after simple consultation of the european parliament. however, when the two co-legislators (the european parliament and the council) legislate, they sometimes decide to entrust the european commission with the task of supplementing, detailing or updating certain parts of legislation. this is the delegation of legislative powers and the exercise of implementing powers by the european commission. i voted in favour of this report because it recalls the essential role of the co-legislators and the need to limit but also to allocate properly, on the one hand, the delegation of legislative powers and, on the other hand, the exercise of implementing powers by the european commission. in any case, the european parliament and the council must remain vigilant and closely follow the measures proposed by the european commission in order to block them in the event of disagreement.
in writing. i voted for the szajer report on the delegation of legislative powers and the commission's exercise of implementing powers. it's a good report.
in writing. this text deals with the follow-up to be given to the delegation of legislative powers and the control by the member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. the aim is to ensure that the prerogatives of the european parliament are well preserved in order to guarantee a sufficient level of democratic legitimacy. it seems to me perfectly legitimate for parliament to be able to negotiate with the council and the commission to decide on a set of criteria for the application of articles[nbsp ]290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which grant delegated and implementing acts to the commission. i think it is particularly appropriate that parliament should be regularly and timely involved in the preparatory phase of delegated acts.
in writing. - the formation of delegated and implementing acts and the correct and most appropriate choice of provisions to be included in the basic act are issues that become an integral part of most negotiations on legislative proposals. it is therefore essential that committees make greater use of the possibility to request the opinion of the juri committee, pursuant to rule 37a of parliament's rules of procedure, on the use of delegated acts. it is also necessary to seek to consolidate the work that has been done over the last four years at both administrative and political level within the eu institutions on issues concerning delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which takes stock of the application of the delegated and implementing acts since their entry into force. in particular, the report provides concrete guidance on how to deal with them so that they fulfil the role for which they were designed, namely to deepen the scrutiny of secondary legislation by co-legislators and to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of delegated acts.
in writing. the lisbon treaty introduced the possibility for the parliament and the council to delegate some of their own power to the commission in a legislative act. the aim of this report is to take stock of the practical application of articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on european union. while he asks the commission not to abuse delegated acts or deplores the lack of communication between the commission and parliament, he avoids the question of democratic legitimacy. yet, this is the central aspect of this procedure! i am voting against to denounce the servile follow-up of this report, which gives parliament no means of checking the powers it delegates to the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the european semester for economic coordination because, of course, without monitoring the economic measures taken, recovery and growth will be impossible. however, we must not disregard social aspects in the examination of growth. the social scoreboard, which we in the employment committee have obtained in this context, is not binding, but it will nevertheless make it possible to check whether the economic measures taken bring social added value and thus benefit all our citizens on a daily basis.
in writing. this paper discusses the 2014 annual growth review as part of the european semester for economic policy coordination. it rightly stresses the importance of fiscal consolidation for a return to growth in europe. i think it is particularly interesting to stress the efforts to be made in the member states to combat the long-term effects of unemployment, especially youth unemployment. our aim is to pursue the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which calls for a strengthening of the governance of the single market in the context of the 2014 european semester, which should allow for better integration of the single market by member states and thus support the real economy. in particular, the european commission should develop a genuine european industrial policy by defining a comprehensive strategy applicable to the external dimension of the single market.
in writing. the report welcomes the ambitious structural reforms implemented by member states which have experienced serious difficulties and encourages them to continue their efforts: greece will appreciate it! of course, it proposes to increase competitiveness by adapting labour costs and promotes public-private partnerships to address public debt concerns. in a total hypocrisy, he emphasizes that the european semester should in no way call into question the prerogatives of the european parliament or those of the national parliaments, when in fact it constitutes an attack on the sovereignty of the states. this lamentable liberal catechism, indifferent to the suffering inflicted on the peoples, deserves our contempt. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this report on the european semester, which aims to monitor the implementation of austerity programmes, with calls for 'structural reforms'. the report welcomes 'the ambitious structural reforms implemented by the states' and 'stresses that efforts must be pursued with determination'. it states that 'the union economy must further increase its competitiveness by matching labour costs to productivity and by reducing macroeconomic imbalances'. the majority of members of the european parliament, including the ump and the french socialists, voted for this report, passing by the losses and gains of the more than 8 million people who have lost their jobs since 2008, the more than 25 million europeans currently unemployed, including 10 million young people, and the 25 percent of the european population who now have an income below the poverty line, up from 17 percent in 2008. it is not the introduction of a few social indicators from which no conclusions are drawn that can make the unacceptable acceptable. the gue/ngl will continue to reject all these policies in general and to promote alternative policies based on a different distribution of wealth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the gutierrez prieto report because the requirement to have a social scoreboard in the context of macroeconomic surveillance must not stop at findings. let us stop just 'talking' about the need for social convergence and put it into practice now, through public procurement and socially responsible tendering, through the voluntary promotion of more responsible and ethical behaviour by our companies through a social label and csr, through strong measures against social dumping and through better crossborder cooperation between social services, labour inspectors, youth mobility services and pension services. the european parliament has a role to play in the european semester, but this requires that the heads of state and government take concrete action to ensure that the social europe we want can benefit our fellow europeans.
in writing. this text deals with employment and social aspects in the context of the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. it seems to me fair to say that there is a need to encourage long-term investment in education, research and innovation. an effective employment policy is a prerequisite for the recovery of growth in europe. we must fight against the scourge of youth unemployment, which is now reaching unprecedented proportions.
in writing. the european parliament wanted to stress the importance of taking employment and social issues into account in the direction of economic and monetary union. i voted in favour of this text because it recalls that the economic viability of the european union depends on the necessary harmonization of social standards in the member states. we also stressed the need to combat youth unemployment and to pursue ambitious policies in this area despite budget cuts. while the €6 billion youth guarantee voted by the european union is a first step in the fight against youth unemployment, the international labour organisation (ilo) estimates that €21 billion is needed to implement an effective programme to combat youth unemployment. we have encouraged member states to reduce labour taxation, for example by reducing social security contributions for new hires, in order to boost employment and growth. finally, we recalled the need to combat undeclared work and tax fraud and evasion in order to protect workers and public revenue.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which notes that for the first time the report annexed to the annual growth survey includes a scoreboard for employment and social policies. in addition to the necessary structural reforms, improvements are possible, particularly in the area of labour mobility within the eu.
in writing. the report sets out parliament's recommendations on the employment and social aspects of the european semester. beyond a few empty phrases about the need to tackle youth unemployment and some questions about the effects of the endless decline in the "cost" of labour, the report unfolds a neoliberal litany. the unemployment problem would be solved by lowering taxes on labour and pensions by raising the effective retirement age. this model is going into the wall and dragging europe with it. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted for the report on plant breeding. it merely gives an overview of the challenges facing agriculture and plant breeding in the coming decades. i've received a few e-mails with concerns that this report would be favorable to gmos. i repeat here, in addition to the answers i have been able to give to the ngos who contacted me: these allegations are false and do not reflect the content of the report in any way. i have always been and will continue to be very vigilant on the question of gmos.
in writing. this report helps to highlight the loss of biodiversity in europe due to, among other things, industrial genetic selection and the large-scale use of plant protection products. future food supplies could be jeopardized. investment in research into new varieties must be given priority. european legislation is too rigid to encourage, develop and use new plant breeding techniques. the protection of our genetic heritage requires the conservation of the culture of local and regional species. the genetic diversity of crops must not be a question of price, nor indexed to the influence of the lobbies in brussels.
in writing. on tuesday 25 february, the european parliament adopted the own-initiative report by marit paulsen entitled 'plant selection: what options for increasing quality and production?', for which i was appointed rapporteur by the centre-right political group (epp). as the world faces rapid population growth, the report examines the future challenges of the agricultural sector and the role of seeds in preserving quality agriculture and biodiversity. i voted in favour of this report, which allows us to consider various solutions for the future of agriculture: research, breeding techniques, genetic diversity and other factors affecting yield.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which looks at the challenges ahead for the agricultural sector and seed selection, recalling the importance of protecting and preserving biological and genetic diversity in europe. i therefore believe that it is important to invest in research in order to ensure long-term food security.
in writing. amid calls for 'competitiveness' and 'healthy competition', this report on plant variety selection makes some positive statements about the need for publicly funded basic research and the need to conserve genetic diversity. but he has succeeded in the feat of remaining vague on the major, yet divisive, issue of gmos. it does not explicitly exclude gmos, which means that it supports them or at least tolerates them. this is confirmed by the calls for "openness to the available techniques". i vote against it.
in writing. plant breeding is the process of changing certain traits of plants to produce certain desired characteristics. as gmos were not clearly excluded from this report, i voted against.
in writing. plant breeding, particularly in agriculture, is a necessary action to develop new plant varieties to ensure food security and to try to meet the world population growth. but the own-initiative report adopted by the european parliament with the votes of the epp, the conservatives and a large majority of the liberals and social democrats on tuesday 25 february advocates a productivist approach to agriculture and the development of public-private partnerships. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of pesticides and the use of pesticides in the production of food. although it calls for the preservation of biological diversity, it is an agro-industrial approach that prevails, while it is one of the major causes of biodiversity loss, a vision far removed from that of a sustainable and peasant agriculture capable of feeding the world's population and respectful of the environment and health. the report regrets in particular the steady decline in plant protection products, which has an impact on agricultural quality and yields, and the delay in the eu's 'evaluation and development of new breeding techniques', including gmos. i therefore voted against this report, as did the members of the gue/ngl.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a native of perpignan, a town on the border between france and spain, i am well aware of the problems posed by the lack of compatibility between rail systems in europe. for a long time, we had to change trains to cross the border. we opened the perpignan-barcelona line at the end of 2013 with four years of delay, mainly due to technical interoperability problems. the reform we are voting on tomorrow is essential. it will enable a train to run indiscriminately on any railway section throughout europe. the goal is to reduce the 11,000 national security regulations. the european railway agency will become the one-stop shop for all vehicle authorisations in order to avoid discrimination and unjustified delays. it will mainly open up border regions and make the territories more attractive. if we want real mobility in a european railway area that is efficient, the member states must open up, modernise and stop defending their own interests. it is the concrete europe that we are defending.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, outside the european railway workers are expressing their discontent with the fourth railway package. they're worried, and i think we can understand them. they are concerned that the public service will be undermined and dismantled by an open market without social rules. the commission's objective of opening up the market must not have the effect of weakening the quality of supply while lowering the working conditions of those involved in the railway sector. this fourth package inevitably involves technical progress with a view to establishing a european railway system. the technical pillar, which was unanimously approved by the committee, will greatly improve interoperability and cross-border relations. the regulation on public service obligations, under the auspices of rapporteur mathieu grosch, also found points of convergence, despite an initial proposal by the commission which was unacceptable because, as is too often the case, it was too dogmatic. the social aspect is thus taken into account and the re-employment of staff is now firmly established. thus, the position of users and the qualitative indicators of supply are also taken into account, which makes it possible today to make a direct conditional allocation. as regards the report by mr grosch, however, i strongly disagree with the question of reciprocity, which is taken out of the general context to penalise specifically a french company, a wholly independent subsidiary of sncf. on this point, i want to make it very clear that there is both a miscalculation and a political error. i believe that a wholly financially independent subsidiary which does not enjoy a monopoly cannot be prevented from applying in any member state on the european continent. finally, as regards the governance of the railway system, the rapporteur responsible for this issue has unfortunately not changed the commission's proposal, which clearly hinders the possibility of establishing an integrated model, even if it guarantees completely transparent financial rules between the infrastructure manager and an operator, historical as it may be. in the same report, i deeply regret that public service contracts are being jeopardised by open access, whereas previous legislation allowed them to be protected. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, i believe that this fourth package contains real technical advances, but that the political aspects are not taken into account. this makes my analysis of the work done mixed and will lead my group to express reservations on a number of points, which i have just mentioned.
mr president, i should like to begin by addressing the question of opening up to competition and public service contracts. i would like to make two main points here: firstly, transport authorities must remain free to decide whether or not to open up public service contracts to competition; secondly, any opening up of the market must be accompanied from the outset by measures to combat social dumping. the promises of market opening, namely increased efficiency, lower costs and improved quality of services, are not supported by reality, commissioner. on the contrary, the negative effects of the liberalisation of public services, particularly rail transport services, are: competition at the expense of quality, social dumping in place of quality jobs, the negative impact on safety, the involvement of national budgets in the support of less profitable sectors and lines abandoned by the private sector, which leads to public expenditure, of course, on the part of the taxpayer, as well as the fragmentation of services and the introduction of new price policies at the expense of an affordable price level for the benefit of end users. this cannot be ignored, commissioner. the british liberalization is, for example, a bitter failure. on the question of railway governance, there is no indication that vertical separation between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking is the silver bullet. vertical separation is not without its risks. after examining the different practices in the member states, i remain convinced that the organisational model in which the infrastructure manager belongs to a group which also carries out railway undertaking activities remains, in many cases, the most efficient from an operational and financial point of view. there is no evidence to show that complete separation is the best model in terms of economic and competitive efficiency of the rail system. we tabled amendments in the committee on transport, but they were not accepted. for tomorrow, we have tabled a series of amendments with 71 members of all nationalities and from different political groups, thus allowing for greater flexibility in railway governance. we maintain an objective of independence between the activities of the infrastructure manager and those of the railway undertaking while allowing...[nbsp ]...[the president interrupts the speaker]... and, i conclude, some flexibility in terms of governance. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, my dear colleague, the first, second and third railway packages were implemented under the auspices of the european commission, as part of greater liberalization, i must say, with some complicity from all or many of the members of this european parliament. as far as i am concerned - and i am not the only one in the socialist group - i would like to see the diagnosis made with regard to these first three railway packages, the idea being, on the occasion of this discussion on the fourth railway package, to show clearly that this liberalisation as we have known it is not going in the right direction.
mr president, i have heard the advocates of the status quo, who think we should remain in the present state, if i may say, of integrated or disintegrated market. i simply remind you that with 10% of freight transport and 6% of passenger transport, the european railway is in a bad way, and to refuse any progress and any development is to continue to sink it. the challenges of the fourth package are considerable: to enable rail to compete on an equal footing with other modes of transport, to improve the overall environmental impact of transport by promoting the least polluting and most efficient mode of transport in terms of fossil fuels, to promote the most socially and socially efficient mode of transport, to increase employment and activity in the railway sector by preserving the status of staff, these are the objectives pursued and, i hope, those which will be achieved by the reforms. given the challenges and differences between national models, it is understandable that it is difficult to propose texts that satisfy all parties, and i would like to welcome the work of the rapporteurs and the committee on transport to achieve balanced texts. the technical pillar of the reform improves safety, lays the foundations for genuine interoperability and makes the european railway agency, in cooperation with the national agencies, the real organiser of a single european railway area. this pillar is the subject of a broad consensus and will provide a good means of development in europe for both industry and transport actors. i would draw the commission's attention, mr kallas, to the inadequacy of the financial annex to the agency, given the very large task assigned to it. the more political pillar of market opening and governance is a delicate one, given the challenges and the different nature, size and culture of the different national railway systems, and unfortunately we have heard them again speaking as such. for governance, the balance between separate and integrated systems has been difficult to find, making it possible for them to coexist by ensuring their efficiency and transparency. i would like to conclude by saying that it will be difficult to find a balance, but that perhaps, in its great wisdom, parliament will be able to remain in medio stat virtuus.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, i would like to ask my colleague mr ertug a question. he spoke on the technical dossier, on the pso dossier. i didn't hear him mention the governance file. can he give us more details on his position on the integrated model or the separate model in the context of the el khadraoui report?
mr president, we are always served the same grimace soup. the first three railway packages were intended to reform rail transport to give it a new lease of life, to increase the volumes transported to reduce the cost of transporting goods and road pollution; we were going to reform to make transport more competitive, to make it more financially attractive to users, to win new investments in safety, to give new rights to employees. what a joke! the opposite is true of companies, consumers, employees and local authorities! the tonnage transported has been halved, the price of tickets is rising, companies no longer have access to the railway, the cost of regional transport is becoming exorbitant, security work is constantly postponed, and it is always less rights for employees. with this fourth package, without ever having taken stock of the first three, you decide to make it more difficult for users and employees. without us, continue in this direction and the unpopularity of your europe will blow up in your face! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i listened very carefully to my colleague mr henin's description of the development of railways in europe, and i agree with him. my question is this: does he think that it is because of the european railway reforms, which have always been prevented and cancelled, or is it precisely because of the lack of railway reforms at european level that the calamitous situation he has described has occurred?
answer is "blue cardboard". mr riquet, there is a principle in management: when you take away a company's opportunities to make money, when you take away the areas of activity where it makes a financial mass greater than the overall activity, you put it in difficulty. by removing areas of activity from large companies, by liberalizing, by allowing the opening up of a limited number of small companies that will take the wealth, it is the whole operation that is put in difficulty. and all the small transportation is canceled because we want to leave the taxpayer to take care of. when that taxpayer can't, we stop the transportation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues, who, as fictitious rapporteurs, played a key role in reaching a balanced compromise and possible adoption of this regulation at first reading. the aim of the text is to ensure better protection of air passengers through better use of incident feedback. so, taken in isolation, these incidents, these events, may be considered minor, but an unfortunate and dangerous combination of several incidents can lead to a tragic accident, as we have sadly seen from some disasters in the past. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. this will provide an accurate picture of the safety situation and identify union-wide trends for preventive or corrective action if necessary. the regulation clearly identifies the role of each party in this mechanism. the exchange of information is essential and it was not normal that, even today, a member state was not informed in detail of the circumstances of an incident in its airspace, on the pretext that the aircraft was registered in another state of the union. we also had to go further to develop an environment of trust, an environment of fair culture, encouraging staff to report an incident to the security authorities. it's done with this text. the person who reports an incident for the sole purpose of improving aviation safety will no longer have to fear that his reporting may be sanctioned by his hierarchy or by the judiciary. the regulation will also allow individuals to report the incident directly to the competent authorities, namely the national authorities or the easa, if they so wish. and it is with confidence that incidents can be reported by people on the ground. the commission will also develop a new framework for the exchange of information on the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against fraud, corruption and organised crime. the text will now allow data to be collected, processed and exchanged better within the union, in an environment of mutual trust, with the common aim of avoiding new disasters. the negotiations were not easy, but it was essential for us to ensure that the objective of enhancing aviation safety took precedence over all other considerations, and i am pleased that we were able to reach agreement with the council on this text at first reading. this agreement was almost unanimously welcomed in the vote in the committee on transport last december, and i hope that this will be the same unity in our house tomorrow on a matter of such importance to our fellow citizens. mr president, you can thank me for saving 30 seconds on the debate.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i too would like to thank vice-president kallas for the excellent cooperation he has had with his services, to thank my colleagues with whom we have indeed worked extremely constructively on such a complex matter, and finally to thank the council presidency for the quality of our relationship in reaching agreement on this matter. i shall not go into details, but i would simply like to express my conviction that this text will make it possible to considerably improve aviation safety. we are fortunate in europe to have experts and world champions in the field of aeronautics, whether they be aircraft manufacturers, airlines or small and mediumsized enterprises. the airplane remains a safe mode of transport in which our citizens can have confidence. the adoption of this regulation tomorrow should be a sign that aviation safety remains a concern and a common objective for legislators and all those involved in the sector. i thank you and i give one more minute to the debate.
the third action programme in the field of health for 2014-2020 is finally operational. i would remind you that the european commission's proposal was dated 9 november 2011, and that we had adopted the regulation in the parliamentary committee on 24 april 2012. i would like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs, the european commission and the various presidencies of the european union which have succeeded each other in reaching an agreement today. the first issue was budgetary, and the european parliament has tried throughout the negotiations to stress that the financial crisis has made the need to improve the efficiency of our health systems even more pressing. more than ever, we need to think of health as an investment in the future, not as a cost or a variable for adjusting social budgets. the sector must be a lever for growth and job creation in this period of crisis and emerge as a real pillar of the european economy. the european commission had earmarked eur 446 million for the budget of this third health programme. today, we have a budget of almost 450 million over seven years, for the period 2014-2020. this amount is still too small, of course, in view of the health challenges posed by the ageing of the european population, but we have managed to save it from budget cuts. this is also a significant increase of [nbsp]5.7%[nbsp] compared to the second health programme. this budget will co-finance potential applicants for funding, who will have to respond to calls for projects in areas where eu action can bring real added value in the health sector. the european parliament has been keen to ensure that this third health programme makes the best use of the resources available. four priority objectives were therefore defined: preventing diseases by addressing the main risk factors (smoking, alcohol abuse, sedentary lifestyle, poor dietary behaviour); to protect citizens from serious cross-border health threats; to contribute to the creation of innovative and sustainable health systems; and to improve access to better and safer healthcare for all union citizens. parliament also requested that the european commission submit a mid-term evaluation report on the achievement of these objectives by 30[nbsp ]june[nbsp ]2017. as regards the objective of prevention, i wished [nbsp ]and this is reflected in the agreement[nbsp ] that the main risk factors should be better identified in order to put more emphasis on prevention: smoking, drug use, alcohol abuse, poor diet and sedentary lifestyle. more effective prevention will increase the sustainability of our health care systems. many projects funded in schools to improve food education have had positive results. this type of project should therefore be continued in the new programme. i also wanted, together with my fictitious colleagues, to see the programme put more emphasis on ageing-related diseases. these diseases are affecting more and more people. more than 7 million people in europe suffer from some form of dementia. this has serious health, economic and social consequences. action is therefore imperative on both prevention and innovation. this process presents a number of issues and challenges, both for the economy and for society. by preserving the health of the individual and his ability to remain active, both physically and socially, for as long as possible, we can maximise its positive impact on productivity and competitiveness. in conclusion, improving the health of our elderly will not only save them from the aging-related suffering but also reduce the social and medical costs borne by society. this is a major challenge which we must anticipate at european level because it cannot be met sufficiently by the member states.
madam president, at a time when more and more of our citizens are becoming distrustful of the construction of europe, i believe we should send a positive signal on this matter of health protection. for these reasons, i welcome this new health action programme and its budgetary envelope, which has not been reduced despite the austerity efforts of too many member states. in particular, this programme will provide the resources needed to combat serious cross-border threats to health: melanin contamination of milk in 2008, the h1n1 influenza pandemic in 2009, aluminium sludge spill in hungary in 2010, e. coli in 2011. these health disasters have exposed the weaknesses of national crisis mechanisms and have prompted the european union to propose legislation to deal with these threats. now that we have adopted the decision on these serious crossborder threats to health, i was the rapporteur, i am pleased that concrete and financial means are being allocated to this major fight for all european citizens.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken and supported me. we can see from this debate how ambitious the health programme is, despite its limited resources. most of you have pointed this out. the challenge, as we can see, given the need to do prevention and vocational training in health and to develop telemedicine, everything about e-health, will be to make the most of funding to encourage innovation in the health sector, by improving the sustainability of care systems in the interests of our citizens. so we know that the task will be difficult, and you all said it, because to accomplish this task, we must multiply the forces present. cooperation between public and private actors and researchers from different disciplines will be required. the potential candidates for funding, namely national authorities, public and private bodies, international organisations and non-governmental organisations, through co-financing, will also have to prepare us for the health threats of tomorrow. i am, of course, well aware of the disparities between member states. i would remind you that we have - and i would like to say this to the honourable members who have just raised this question - differentiated funding for the member states, which unfortunately have a gdp below a certain average. let me also mention, as a conclusion, a health challenge which i also wanted to place at the heart of the health programme: the phenomenon of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. i consider that we are facing a real silent epidemic which is killing at least twenty-five thousand people a year in the european union. this is a time bomb, because the emergence of multidrug-resistant bacteria has made some strains so resistant that we don't have the means to provide solutions to new forms of disease, such as tuberculosis. i wanted to draw your attention to these matters because i think there is a real urgency.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner and minister, you must admit that the terrible scourge of youth unemployment is not a fatality but the clear failure of your european austerity policies. at the same time, there is a huge need for training in europe to meet the challenges of the future. if the aim today were to create, with the youth guarantee, the conditions for every young european to have access to qualified training and to secure and well-paid work, this project would be a good idea. the youth guarantee may be nothing more than a propaganda operation or a small bandage on the great disease that is afflicting our europe: youth unemployment. i would like to see the youth guarantee become a genuine grant for study, training and employment, with the necessary financial resources to achieve this. but the fundamental question of youth employment requires an end to austerity and a high level of mobilisation by the european central bank for new credit to companies which would make the training and employment of young people a priority. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
i'm not getting in the way of the youth guarantee project. i say that the funds allocated to this project are clearly insufficient since the international labour office estimates the needs at 21 billion pounds, mr commissioner, i believe you are at 6 billion. i also think it would be useful if it were a 'guarantee', that is to say a means of accessing training. there is - and the commissioner has rightly said this - a huge need for training and qualifications in europe. moreover, we do need a project to transform our entire industry today, as part of an energy and environmental transition that is absolutely necessary. we must invent the industry of tomorrow, and this requires investment in research and training for young people.
mr president, the youth guarantee must not remain a mere advertisement. it must be implemented rapidly through appropriate national plans, as was the case in austria, whose example inspired this measure. the commission must ensure that european funds are used properly, because in order to combat unemployment it is important to concentrate efforts on interventions whose effectiveness has already been demonstrated and not to waste public money on the creation of non-market jobs. the draft national plans submitted to the commission in mid-november indicate that the emphasis in most countries is on training, learning and the reform of education systems. these reforms are necessary, but they will only have an effect in the medium term. we must not leave on the side of the road those young people who are not registered as unemployed and those who are excluded from the school system. they are hardly identifiable, and therefore very difficult to reach in order to offer them training or simply personal follow-up to improve their self-esteem or self-esteem. this is why we must support the bodies responsible for this area. and in this connection i think it is useful for the commission to be as transparent as possible, so that all the member states can be aware of the preliminary drafts and projects envisaged by the various state departments, in order to facilitate as much as possible the exchange of good practice as the council has just proposed. it is also crucial to have procedures in place to allow for the evaluation of these new policies. our government leaders should not hide behind the lack of available financial resources: the youth guarantee must be seen as an investment. if the union is to preserve its future growth potential, the member states must also give priority in their budgets to action to promote youth employment. the only financial contribution from the european union, via the fund...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a precarious generation, a generation that has sacrificed, but above all, a forgotten generation. forgotten by austerity policies that make it an adjustment variable. youth is not an adjustment variable; it must be our priority. yesterday, thanks to the european parliament, the youth guarantee was a real hope for all young people aged 18 to 25 in very precarious situations. today is the cold shower. the member states are turning this new right to autonomy into an empty shell for those who dare to apply it. the commission cannot wait to act. quick action is imperative! let us look at france, where despite the contribution of the european social fund, the resources are lacking to rapidly extend the experience to all the territories, and therefore to more young people. worse, the four-month clause has been removed. let's stop tinkering with an idea that started out with good intentions but lacks resources. we dare you! let's take it further! let us now call for a minimum income for all, accessible to young people without conditions, but above all a european charter applicable in the event of...
in writing. mr president of the parliament, mr president of the council and mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, parliament has done it! the epp is making a promise, namely that europe will not forget its young people and will actively fight unemployment. this has been done against the wishes of the member states, in a climate of distrust at times, but it is now a reality and putting young europeans back to work is clearly a priority. with the youth guarantee, all young people under 25 are offered a quality job, training or traineeship within four months of leaving school or losing their job. so let us not be fooled: if our assembly is mobilized and has achieved this victory, it is the member states who will be responsible for the future of this unprecedented initiative, because they will have to integrate it into their employment policies, via the esf. we know who is to blame, but above all, young people, their families and all citizens know who they will have to hold responsible if this innovation, which parliament has brought about and achieved, does not achieve its objectives! thank you .
member of the commission. - mr president, i was just speaking about erasmus+ which is about education, as you know. switzerland has now missed the deadline for the 2014 grant award decisions. this means that in 2014 switzerland will not participate in erasmus+ on an equal footing with member states as initially envisaged and its participation will be limited to cooperation activities, as with any other third country. i want to make it very clear that this freeze on negotiations is not a punishment or sanction for the expression of the swiss electorate, but a logical consequence of the choice switzerland itself has made, a consequence which was very well-known before. nobody can pretend to be surprised here. of course, nobody has an interest in breaking off dialogue, and we will continue to engage constructively in the hope that a solution can be found rapidly. but we have to take into account the changed circumstances and the non-conclusion of the croatia protocol. business as usual is not an option here. in the same vein, and i want to be equally clear, nobody on our side has an interest in terminating the freedom of movement of people agreement and invoking the so-called guillotine clause linking the package of agreements concluded in 1999. not even the proponents of the initiative are aiming at this. i therefore trust that the swiss authorities will make serious and significant efforts to try and square the circle, and that we will be able to say in a year from now that relations with switzerland are as close and friendly as they were before 9[nbsp ]february.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is simple. the swiss are free to vote as they see fit, but they are also free to be responsible for their votes. so i am quite clear: all negotiations with switzerland have been suspended and are now out of date, that is to say, we are in the situation before the agreements with switzerland. it is up to switzerland to find solutions, not the european union; it is up to swiss society to find the solutions. it's still fantastic, a week after the vote, all the polls in switzerland indicate that more than 60 percent of the swiss would have rejected the initiative if they had understood the consequences. we cannot discharge switzerland. we must recognize the swiss vote; we have to say to them, "you are big, you are strong, you are independent, you can do it. you have to deal with it, and if you find solutions, you come back to us". you will see that the swiss will fall to their knees because they need europe, because 60 percent of swiss exports go to the european union, because switzerland's wealth depends on the european market. you can't have butter and butter money. even the national front would not be able to find this solution. you are idiots, you are complete idiots because you have not understood the values of europe. that is why, i say simply, europe must not move. europe has agreements and switzerland denounces them. switzerland has to find the solutions, not europe. we have time. it's switzerland that will have to get its watches back on time, that's the situation.
mr president, i shall speak very briefly on a personal note, because mr cohn-bendit, although i applauded the part of his speech in which he declared that the swiss people were free and responsible, called me an idiot. the humble brahmin i am bows before this monument of the abundant intelligence of my colleague cohn-bendit, whose evolution i have observed since we were students together at the faculty of nanterre. i've known him, and i'm full of admiration for his intelligence and full of humility for my stupidity. i knew him as an anarchist, or crypto-anarchist, now a supporter of the new world order. i've seen him smash up ballot boxes, screaming "elections, trap for fools", and now he's a fiery democrat. i've seen his marxist friends criticize the slave trade, the dictatorship of the market, the free movement of capital. i see he's converted there today. i am not intelligent enough to appreciate the immense variety presented by mr cohn-bendit.
mr president, i should like to state here, in a solemn way, how much i found the remarks of the president of the czech republic concerning the siege of strasbourg inappropriate. when you're invited into a house, the least polite thing to do is to respect it. i would add that the president is not a member of the european council and therefore has no competence to speak on this subject. on multilingualism, he said he didn't want a single beer in europe; he could have been speaking czech instead of english. we too are against a single language english ; we are in favour of multilingualism, which is a human, democratic and political asset.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the governance of the single market because, of course, without a perfect coordination of economic and trade measures taken by the member states, recovery and growth within the single market will be impossible. we need a qualitative assessment of the effectiveness of the measures adopted by the member states. and some key sectors for growth and job creation such as public procurement, the digital single market and retail financial services need more attention. however, we must not disregard social aspects in the examination of growth. the social scoreboard, which we in the employment committee have obtained in this context, is not binding, but it will nevertheless make it possible to verify whether the economic and commercial measures taken bring social added value and thus benefit all our citizens on a daily basis.
in writing. this text rightly calls for strengthening the governance of the single market and for the introduction of a single market pillar in the european semester cycle to support the real economy and stimulate growth and job creation. the european union must present a model of competitiveness based on knowledge and innovation through investment and research and development. i also support the view that the european semester should be based on a more thorough democratic process, with greater involvement of national parliaments.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report calling for the establishment of a pillar on the single market in the european semester cycle; this provision would support the real economy and stimulate growth and job creation. in particular, it should include recommendations for each country.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to keep the focus on the way the single market works in the european union. it called on the commission to strengthen the governance of the single market by establishing an annual cycle of governance of the single market as a specific pillar of the european semester. finally, it proposed that the work on the single market be directed towards a targeted organisation of the work of the competitiveness council so that it is explicitly devoted to feeding these real-economy priorities within the european semester. this is a sickening reiteration of the liberal's cruel recipes. i vote against it.
in writing. i supported this report which seeks to improve the governance of the single market, including by rethinking the role of the competitiveness council in the development of a european industrial policy.
in writing. i voted against this report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester, the title of which is self-explanatory. the report calls for 'full respect for economic freedoms' - we know what 'freedoms' these are - and analyses the deepening of the single market as the only way out of the crisis. full of hypocrisy, this report claims that 'the coordination of the single market priorities in the context of the european semester should be anchored in a more thorough democratic process with the full participation of national parliaments and respect for the prerogatives of the european parliament', in line with the gestures of the epp and the pse who speak of a 'democratic imperative' to better vote all the white seats in the european commission. the european semester is one of the major instruments of austerity policies, the one which allows control of budgetary policies. it is the very negation of democratic control, since it nullifies one of the major powers, it abolishes it.
in writing. cohesion policy is essential for sustainable development and cohesion within european territories. since these european funds represent large sums, it is essential that the implementation of this policy be closely monitored. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission's seventh and eighth progress reports on eu cohesion policy and the 2013 strategic report on the implementation of the 2007-13 programmes. since the 2008 crisis, the development gap between european regions has widened. the draft report recommends investing in infrastructure projects, in particular through support for cohesion policy, to combat regional disparities and the effects of the crisis on populations at risk of poverty and exclusion.
in writing. this text deals with the commission's seventh and eighth progress reports on eu cohesion policy and the 2013 strategic report on the implementation of the 2007-13 programmes. it rightly points out that the difficulties linked to the economic crisis in europe have contributed to further widening the gaps and inequalities within the european union. i therefore believe that there is a need to rationalise the resources allocated to cohesion policy, giving priority to the recovery of employment and social inclusion.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it is appropriate for the union to continue its efforts in cohesion policy in order to be able to achieve the 2020 objectives. it is therefore essential to focus our efforts on selecting investment priorities while focusing on the specific needs of our territories in order to achieve this mission. finally, it remains important to ensure that arbitrage and synergies between different types of investment are reflected and respected in this cohesion policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which attempts to draw up a first assessment of the use of the structural funds in the regions in relation to objectives such as growth and employment, labour mobility, training. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the development gap between regions has widened as a result of the economic and financial crisis, and that it would be beneficial to focus investment more on infrastructure projects.
in writing. this report is not critical of the relationship between cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to move from a policy of relative solidarity to a policy summarised in a sumptuous way as efficiency/competitiveness. all this bodes ill for social policy in europe for the next seven years. the rapporteur makes no connection between the austerity policies adopted by the european union and its governments and the precariousness and impoverishment of our citizens. such political hemiplegia is appalling. the commission is concerned about the remaining development gaps between regions, high poverty rates, the importance of the european social fund, but at the same time calls for continued sound and effective management, budgetary consolidation and other liberal nonsense. i note, however, that she has some reservations about the macroeconomic sanctions which cut funding to the regions if governments do not respect the european neoliberal doxa. if it doesn't, i'm voting against it.
in writing. the 9 outermost regions (ors) of the european union (including the 5 french overseas regions of guadeloupe, martinique, french guiana, réunion and mayotte) present both a challenge of territorial and social cohesion and many opportunities to be seized. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which recalls the central place of the outermost regions and proposes new development prospects through european policies.
in writing. i voted for the report on 'optimizing the development of the potential of the outermost regions by creating synergies between the structural funds and other eu programmes' because it will help the outermost regions by mobilising the different funds available to them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to streamline the use of the structural funds and other european union programmes to promote the development of the outermost regions. it seems to me quite appropriate to seek to develop synergies between these funds and programmes in order to maximise their effectiveness. for example, in the case of european youth programmes, the erasmus programme could be used more effectively to boost the development of a knowledge society in regions that are too often left out of some european policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on maximising the potential of the outermost regions, particularly in the fields of tourism, biodiversity, research and innovation with aerospace. however, in order to promote job creation in these regions, the accessibility of the outermost regions and their integration into transport networks should be strengthened.
in writing. the european union has started work on taking overseas regions into account as an integral part of the eu. this is verified by the establishment of an institutional framework such as community law. the union distinguishes between two categories of overseas communities: the outermost regions (ors) and the overseas countries and territories (octs), france being the only member state to have both. the aim is to improve the full integration of the octs within the union, while denouncing its miserable attitude towards the overseas countries. the rapporteur supports the synergy between the european structural funds and the specific programmes for the remote and insular nature of the doms in particular. i vote for it.
in writing. my report presents a set of pragmatic solutions to increase the participation of the outermost regions (ors) in all eu funds and programmes. it called on the european commission to work on solutions to bring the ors out of their isolation and recalled that the ors can make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives that the european union has set itself by 2020. this is a reversal of the approach which i asked the european parliament to support by putting forward a proactive vision, focused on the future, research, innovation, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment. i voted in favour of my report, which was adopted by a very large majority (446 votes in favour, 73 against and 47 abstentions). at the end of the parliamentary term, this vote is a strong political signal for the ors sent by all meps.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the outermost regions. this report rightly highlights the role that these overseas regions can play, particularly in research and innovation at european level. the outermost regions can serve as european laboratories and centres of excellence in several sectors. it is therefore important that all european funds and programmes are used in an appropriate way, promoting synergies. i regret, however, that the report does not call for more synergies with the overseas countries and territories which share many of the same characteristics and problems as the outermost regions.
in writing. the outermost regions are an integral part of the european union. they are a real asset to the european presence throughout the world. these regions have remarkable research and technology potential in a number of areas such as aerospace, renewable energy and maritime research. however, they are among the regions of europe that suffer from very high unemployment rates, particularly among young people. the flight of skills is common in the outermost regions, due to high unemployment rates and the inadequacy of the training offered. the european union must not in any case abandon these regions, but must help them to face the challenges they face. i am therefore very pleased to have voted in favour of this report. it proposes to extend the scope of the union's solidarity-based mutual assistance to them so that they become an integral part of eu strategies and policies. although remote, these regions are still european and must be treated as such.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague and friend from the gue/ngl, younous omarjee, on optimising the development of the potential of the outermost regions (ors) by creating synergies between the structural funds and other european union programmes. the very technical name implies that the aim is to improve the integration of the outermost regions into all european policies, in particular by promoting a more sustainable approach to development. this report is a good initiative, since it is a reminder to the institutions that the ors can no longer be put on the sidelines and seen as a handicap by those who are shaping the european union of tomorrow. to this end, the report calls on the commission to examine the additional costs and the problem of the high cost of living in the ors and to take them into account in the formulation of european policies. it also called for better accessibility in the outermost regions, in particular by reducing the digital divide, and for a number of measures to be implemented, such as the creation of an investment framework for social housing to combat poverty and exclusion in the outermost regions.
in writing. i voted for the theurer report on the performance-based evaluation of the union's finances: a new tool for the european commission's improved discharge procedure. in accordance with article 318, the commission shall draw up an annual report on this matter. in so far as it focuses on financial results, this evaluation report complements the approach to compliance developed by the european court of auditors. it gives parliament the opportunity to assess political achievements, not just the legality of financial transactions.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text, which gives concrete expression to the application of a new tool introduced by the treaty on the functioning of the european union in the budgetary discharge procedure. it enables the european parliament to exercise its power of political control over european public policy more effectively when assessing the union's finances. i think it is particularly important that parliament should insist that the commission should rely on accurate information for the performance of the member states when assessing the finances.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which makes it possible to assess the european union's finances in a sound manner. i can therefore only share the desire to strengthen the culture of performance applicable to the financial management of the union. this will prepare the way for the transition to a truly performance-oriented budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the union's finances, which is a new instrument for budgetary discharge with a report provided by the european commission on the evaluation of the union's finances. in order to provide parliament with relevant information as discharge authority, the commission report should provide cross-cutting information to measure the results of internal policies in relation to the europe 2020 strategic objective.
in writing. this non-legislative report praises the efforts of the barroso commission to assess the impact of european union spending. he refers to a hallucinatory statement by josé manuel barroso in 2011. the president of the commission had said that the european budget would now be determined not on the basis of the traditional headings determined by the bureaucracy and the electorate, but by taking into account the facts and objectives [...], so as to make the best possible use of every euro spent . this technocratic and anti-democratic profession of faith sums up the spirit of the 'results' and 'spending' evaluation which this report advocates. this assessment is illegitimate if the objectives assessed are not determined democratically. if general interest objectives were set, for example in terms of social progress or equality in public services, the record of this commission would be disastrous. to be at last at the service of the people, the union's finances must be completely re-funded democratically, like the rest of the treaties. this is the fundamental condition for citizens to consent once again to the european legal order which they now massively reject. i am voting against this undemocratic report.
ecall system to be mandatory in all new vehicles by 2015. this system allows the vehicle to contact emergency services if you are unable to do so. and all over europe, too! it is estimated that this could save almost 2,500 lives in europe. the system will be free!
in writing. whether for business, personal or tourist reasons, europeans are increasingly crossing the borders of their home countries to travel to other eu countries. the idea of a european-wide on-board emergency call system is therefore a good one. however, i have serious problems with the text proposed by the commission and parliament. firstly, i am firmly opposed to any delegation of public service, particularly in such a crucial area as road safety. secondly, the proposed differentiation between emergency and distress calls could be used as a pretext for a reduction in investment in ecall (and therefore in its effectiveness) as part of the austerity policies imposed on europe by the troika and mrs merkel. thirdly, as not all europeans speak globish , it would be wise to provide a permanent translation service within the ecall service. no matter what the cost of such a measure is, human life is not precious. good ideas, bad solutions: i vote against it.
in writing. e-call is an initiative of the european commission to eventually introduce a pan-european automatic emergency call system based on a public service in all vehicles sold in the eu, allowing for example a crashed car to instantly call emergency services while sending its precise location, whether its occupants are conscious or not, and regardless of the eu country it is in. this system, based on 112, thus allows for a faster intervention by the emergency services, adapted to the severity of the accident and the type of vehicle involved. it is expected that passenger cars and light commercial vehicles will be equipped with them from october 2015, with the exception of two-wheelers. at present, only 0.7% of vehicles are equipped with such a system. the report provides that the service will be free of charge, ensures that the data collected is only for traffic control and rescue purposes and plans to launch a campaign to raise awareness among motorists. i am convinced that the widespread use of this system will save lives and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. with the opening of borders and the creation of a single market where european citizens are free to move around in all member states, many europeans are forced to travel all over europe. we have to make sure they're safe. the ecall system allows you to reach the nearest emergency services from any point in europe with a single number. the report proposes a regulatory approach to ensure the gradual mandatory presence of ecall in all vehicles. this will help to speed up the rescue of the person in danger. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. a more effective approach will, i believe, save many lives.
in writing. in 2012, there were more than one million accidents on european roads, resulting in approximately 28 000 deaths and more than 1.5 million injuries. in addition to the lives lost or destroyed, this tragedy also represents an annual cost to society of about 130 billion euros. the eu is strongly committed to reducing the number of road accidents and mitigating their consequences. when fully operational across the eu and available to every driver, ecall will make a significant contribution to achieving these objectives. its main advantage is the reduction in the number of road deaths and the severity of injuries caused by road accidents, as the emergency services arrive at the scene of accidents more quickly. i could therefore only support this report by my vote in plenary.
in writing. the purpose of this legislation is to deploy the infrastructure of interoperable ecall call centres throughout the european union. the ecall system is an electronic emergency call system in the event of an accident installed on passenger and light commercial vehicles. this text will allow for the mandatory deployment of the system by member states on 1 october 2015 to allow the handling of ecalls. in order to finance the system, in the usual liberal logic within the eu, it is permissible to use public-private partnerships and private calling services. i therefore voted against this legislative proposal which was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament. while it is a laudable intention to prevent emergency services from being dispatched quickly in the event of an accident, it is an illusion to believe that technological measures will be sufficient to remedy the decline in public emergency services, which is a consequence of liberal policies and austerity measures. under the guise of improving the safety of drivers and passengers in vehicles, it is feared that the protection of personal data and respect for the privacy of individuals will be a win-win situation.
in writing. i welcome today's vote on the deployment of ecall: it is a real leap forward for road safety. in the event of a serious road accident, the ecall system in each vehicle will automatically dial the emergency number 112, and all new vehicle models sold in the european union from october 2015 will have to be equipped with it. this system will not prevent accidents, but it can make a significant contribution to reducing the number of road deaths. the ecall we have obtained today will be a free public emergency service for all drivers in europe, regardless of the type of car they are driving: the main benefit of the system is that it immediately alerts the emergency services to the precise location of the accident site. we can be pleased with the vote we have obtained today, but this result should not obscure the work still to be done on the implementation of the "112" system, particularly in the area of call location, on which the proper functioning of ecall depends in every respect. the ball is now in the court of the member states!
in writing. in parallel with the trade negotiations with mercosur, parliament called on the council to strengthen political dialogue and cooperation with costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama. given the growth potential of these countries, it is in the european union's interest to have strong links with them and i have therefore supported this text for that reason.
in writing. i voted for the recommendation by mr salafranca sanchez-neyra on the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european community and costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama, because it does not raise any problems.
in writing. i approve the conclusion of a political dialogue and cooperation agreement with costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama. such an agreement will strengthen relations between the european union and these countries and promote better cooperation. i think it would be interesting to work towards better cooperation in the fight against organised crime, drug trafficking and money laundering.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text as it is important for the european union to ensure the strengthening of political dialogue and cooperation with these partners. i therefore look forward to the future establishment of closer cooperation in many areas, including foreign and security policy and migration policy. the new agreement also includes provisions on cooperation in the fight against terrorism, drugs, money laundering and organised crime, which is a good thing for guaranteeing and promoting the rule of law in these countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european community, on the one hand, and costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama, on the other. this is a formal change following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the political dialogue and cooperation agreement aims in particular to strengthen the cooperation programme governed by the framework cooperation agreement between the european community and the republics concerned.
in writing. this recommendation on the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and central america is intrinsically linked to the association agreement with these countries. i had already denounced it in 2012 when it was approved by the european parliament and i had pointed out that the signing ceremony took place in tegucigalpa, honduras, on the anniversary of the coup d'état! this is the height of hypocrisy. the commission is now proposing to set up the 'politics and cooperation' part, particularly on human rights and sustainable development. first of all, there is of course no binding mechanism to ensure respect for human rights (while on the trade side the imf and the wto are watching closely). and above all, this part can only enter into force if the association agreement which accompanies it also enters into force. i denounce this conditioning of respect for neoliberal economics in order to enforce human rights, which the union with a variable geometry is practicing under the orders of the united states. i vote against it.
in writing. in parallel with the trade negotiations with mercosur, parliament called on the council to strengthen political dialogue and cooperation with costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama. given the growth potential of these countries, it is in the european union's interest to have strong links with them and i have therefore supported this text for that reason. in this particular case, the importance of the readmission clause in controlling migration flows between our countries is recalled.
in writing. i voted in favour of the weber report on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republics of costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama, of the other part, as regards article 49 (3) thereof. it's a good report.
in writing. this text deals with the part concerning the obligations of the contracting parties concerning the readmission of illegal immigrants in the framework of a political dialogue and cooperation agreement with costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama. i support this text, which will enable the two contracting parties to better manage migration flows and the challenges associated with illegal migration.
in writing. i voted in favour of article[nbsp ]49 (3) of the political dialogue agreement on cooperation between the parties, in particular on the mutual readmission of illegal migrants.
in writing. this recommendation addresses a particular aspect of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and central america: the reciprocal readmission of illegal migrants . there are no illegal people, but people who are staying illegally. such agreements are contrary to the most basic human rights, in particular for asylum seekers and their protection. i am certainly voting against and i would like to remind the house that this agreement with latin america is only a means of passing the pill on the free trade agreement that is associated with it. in the end, the union is a more selfish and imperious partner for the countries of south america than the united states.
in writing. this so-called political dialogue and cooperation agreement is in some ways a complement to the free trade agreement signed in june 2012 after five years of negotiations between the eu and a number of central american countries. the new agreement sets out a number of common objectives and coordinated initiatives in the fields of regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, sustainable development, regional security and stability, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy, etc. it therefore makes it possible in theory to introduce minimum conditions of respect for human rights in the eu's relations with these states. more generally, it allows for a so-called political dialogue on these issues, which is what many civil society organisations in these countries are calling for because it allows them to get out of their isolation. i voted for this report with no illusions about the real consequences it might have, knowing full well that for the eu economic and political interests in the very narrow sense of the term often come before, and this is a euphemism, respect for human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs berès on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the member states must be able to be assisted by employment policy guidelines. this is the priority of the european citizens. all efforts must therefore be made to promote employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which does not amend the member states' employment guidelines to focus on the implementation of the coordinated eu-member states strategy for employment, and in particular on promoting a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce.
in writing. after a fairly honest assessment of the social difficulties encountered in the countries of the union, the scope of this resolution is particularly limited. it is itself a symbol of the impasse of the social europe as it is being implemented today. first, parliament acknowledges its powerlessness in this matter, which immediately weakens the role of such a resolution. the 26 pages of this text attempt to cover youth unemployment, unemployment insurance policies and social stabilisers, the precarious situation of children, the employment of the elderly, the situation of women, tax progressiveness, mobility within the union and the sustainability of pension systems. finally, developments on the precariousness of europe only serve to mask the real intentions of european social policy. the resolution considers that only a balance based on flexibility and security can guarantee the competitiveness of the labour market a hypothetical recovery plan is proposed at the level of 2% of european gdp, but nothing is said about its implementation, its financing, which needs to be strengthened, or its priorities, which remain in the areas of education and research and development. i vote against. e. other
in writing. in these times of crisis, we need to build a common strategy in the field of employment. although employment policy is a matter for the member states, the european union must use its right, granted by the treaties, to steer the member states in the right direction. the european commission proposes four employment guidelines: increasing labour market participation, developing a skilled workforce, improving education and training systems and tackling social exclusion. i am very pleased to vote in favour of these guidelines, in favour of a european employment strategy for 2020. the union cannot remain indifferent to this problem and must do everything it can to combat unemployment in europe. we cannot remain helpless in the face of the situation in which many of our fellow citizens find themselves.
in writing. the employment guidelines call on member states to 'improve labour mobility', 're-examine social protection systems' and 'modernise social protection systems, including pension schemes and access to healthcare'. we know what these words mean: structural reforms and austerity policies. this is all the more so since, in accordance with the treaties, these guidelines must be compatible with the broad guidelines of economic policies and thus comply with the stability pact. in the gue-ngl we reject these policies in general and do not content ourselves with a few marginal corrections, which are essentially verbal, unlike the socialist and green groups who voted as one man in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted for the strejček report on the common system of value added tax, as regards a standardised vat return. it is a very good initiative on a subject which remains mainly in the field of subsidiarity.
in writing. i have approved this text which aims to introduce a standardised vat return for all companies operating in the european union. it seems perfectly legitimate to seek to reduce the administrative burden on businesses by means of a uniform vat declaration system in all member states. this measure should then save several billion euros. the text also contributes to the consolidation of the internal market, which will no longer be subject to the barriers to trade created by the different laws of the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to introduce a common system of value added tax. at a time when economic issues are becoming more pressing for our citizens, the union must react. i therefore support the union's approach to resolving the disparities in the rules and procedures governing the filing of vat returns in the union by introducing a standardised vat return. i am pleased that european policymakers are taking action to reduce barriers to crossborder trade.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a common system of value added tax, which aims to make vat collection more efficient, while reducing the 'paperwork' and the costs of vat both for member states' tax administrations and for taxable persons.
in writing. according to european commission estimates, vat represents about 21%[nbsp ] of national tax revenue. but 12 [nbsp ] per cent of vat revenues are not collected, which is a gigantic fraud. this report proposes to support the commission's proposal to introduce a standard vat return for taxpayers who are liable to pay vat. under the guise of harmonization, the only and obsessive concern of this text is the "reduction of the burden on enterprises" and the "minimum" easing of administrative procedures" (repeated five times in three articles). this deregulation of vat administration is not compatible with an effective fight against fraud. with reduced returns and controls, national tax administrations will be even less able to fight fraud. combined with the austerity applied to the administrations, this deregulation can only benefit fraud. i vote against it.
in writing. applied to all goods and services of everyday consumption, value added tax (vat) is used in all european countries as a broad-based tax source. at present there is no common framework for its collection and administrative processing, which regularly leads to errors and unfortunately to fraud. the european commission has put forward a proposal to make the collection of the levy more efficient, in particular by reducing the paperwork involved in its collection and adopting a standardised format at european level to facilitate trade between member states. the objective of this text, which i voted for, is to save time for vat returns, to avoid errors or to be able to correct them easily, and to increase the capacity of the tax administrations of the member states to carry out checks. i hope that our businesses and our member states will soon feel the positive effects.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hübner report on the modification of the period of application of decision 2009/831/ec. this is a slight change that is not a problem.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to extend the period of application of the decision authorising portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty in the autonomous region of madeira to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed there and in the autonomous region of the azores to liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed there. given the specific nature of the farms in this region, i think it is legitimate to approve such a decision. however, it was important to ensure that this decision was well proportioned to the disadvantages faced by these outermost regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which allows portugal to continue to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed in the autonomous region of madeira and to liqueurs and spirits in the autonomous region of the azores, in particular because of the additional costs incurred in transporting raw materials to these islands.
in writing. this report extends for six months the preferential tax regime for alcohol produced in the portuguese overseas territories (madeira, azores). justified to take account of the remoteness of these territories, this tax reduction expired at the end of 2013 to the detriment of alcohol production in the outermost regions of the union. i regret that, because of the commission's slowness, this scheme could not be extended before the necessary applications had been submitted by the countries concerned. this has exposed these products to serious commercial risks, whereas they are an asset for europe and for the quality of the spirits sold to its inhabitants. while the same tax regime was extended until 2020 for french rums by parliament in january, this report refuses portugal the same extension. it invokes the reform of state aid control which applies from july 2014 to strengthen free competition. this variable geometry treatment is not acceptable. equality must be applied between the outermost regions to ensure decent production conditions in the sectors concerned on a lasting basis. i am voting for this text so as not to prevent these portuguese territories from benefiting in the short term from this tax system.
in writing. the tax advantage granted to the azores and madeira for local alcohol production is to be extended until 1 june 2014, when the new regional guidelines for 2014-2020 will enter into force. it is of course crucial to allow these outermost regions to benefit from these tax aids which are designed to safeguard and develop their local industry. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. on 1 january 2014, mayotte became the 9th outermost region (or) of the european union (alongside the other 4 french overseas regions of guadeloupe, martinique, french guiana and réunion). following this change in status, the tax provisions already applicable to the other four french outermost regions must also be able to apply to mayotte, which is why i am voting in favour of this dossier.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hübner report on amending decision 2004/162/ec as regards its application to mayotte as from 1 january 2014. i've been thinking a lot about the mayotte issue. we must then adapt the regulations also for mayotte.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of the french authorities being allowed to provide for exemptions or reductions in the 'grant de mer' tax for certain products manufactured locally in mayotte until 1 july 2014. in view of the particular situation of mayotte, it seems to me legitimate to adapt european legislation in a way that is proportionate to the disadvantages of this outermost region.
in writing. since 1 january 2014, mayotte has become an outermost region (or) in european jargon. as such, it will be able to benefit, like the other french overseas departments (martinique, guadeloupe, french guiana and réunion) until 1 july next, from exemptions and reductions in taxes on certain local products so that taxation does not become an unreasonable burden. the remoteness, insularity, geographical specificities, and the cost of raw materials and energy can seriously hamper the manufacture and sale of local products. that is why i have approved this derogation which will enable mayotte, through this differentiated taxation, to benefit from a much needed boost in a french overseas department where the record unemployment rate in france is over 36%.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which authorizes france to provide for exemptions or reductions in taxation for certain products which are produced locally in the french overseas departments of guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion.
in writing. decision 2004/162/ec authorises france to provide for exemptions or reductions from the 'grant de mer' tax for products which are produced locally in the french overseas departments of guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion, which have the status of outermost region (or). mayotte has had this status since 1 january 2014. the tax legislation must therefore be adapted accordingly. while france had requested that exemptions and reductions in taxes be applied to about a hundred products, the proposal under discussion authorizes them for only 59. this decision should have been applied as of 1 january and is valid only until 1 july 2014. we have already lost too much time, so i am voting in favour of speeding up its implementation. the bureaucracy that the commission denounces in the states is much slower and more expensive at its level, where 22,000 civil servants swarm to keep the liberal delusions alive.
in writing. this text is part of the entry of mayotte into the european union and its accession to the status of outermost regions (ors). the aim of the proposal is to amend the decision providing for exemptions from the rates of maritime concessions in the french overseas departments, in order to include exemption possibilities for the island of mayotte in order to protect local production of a whole list of products before they are protected by customs duties. i have worked hard in parliament to ensure that this text can be adopted as a matter of urgency, first in my committee on regi and then in plenary. this text was very late sent by the european commission and was supposed to apply as of 1 january 2014, since it is an update of a european text following the entry of mayotte into the eu, i naturally voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. with this new decision, mayotte, which became an outermost region of the european union on 1 january 2014, will be able to apply a more favourable taxation for locally produced products. the objective of this decision is to support the economic activity of the outermost regions, and in this case mayotte. this special treatment is due to the remoteness of the european continent and the resulting constraints. it is therefore crucial that the outermost regions, and mayotte in particular, should be able to benefit from derogating measures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the progress made since the signing of the comprehensive framework agreement for partnership and cooperation between the ec and indonesia in 2009. parliament welcomed the agreement, the first of its kind between the union and an asean country, and considered it to be a sign of the ever-growing importance of relations between the union and indonesia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the interim report and recommendation by mrs gomes on the ec-indonesia comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation, with the exception of the readmission issues. it's not a deal that's causing problems.
in writing. by voting in favour of this text, the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states and indonesia. such an agreement strengthens cooperation between the two entities in a number of fields, including political and economic matters, based on common principles. however, i think it was important for the european parliament to express its concern about the violence against religious minorities in indonesia and the many closures of churches in certain parts of the country. i think this call for greater religious tolerance is fundamental.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to create a legal framework for cooperation between the european union and indonesia. the agreement, which will be concluded for a period of five years, will enable the two protagonists to strengthen political, economic and sectoral cooperation in areas such as migration, trade and the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the interim report on the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european commission and indonesia. in the extension of the agreement, the relationship between indonesia and the union should be recognised as strategic, and regular summits should be held to review bilateral and global developments.
in writing. the european parliament's approval of the agreement with indonesia was not in question here, as in the parliamentary interim report which was put to the vote later. the agreement contains a section on trade and investment calling for full compliance with wto rules. the ultimate objective remains the establishment of a free trade agreement, as is already under way with six asean member countries. that is not my idea of international relations in solidarity. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the interim report and recommendation by mrs gomes on the ec-indonesia comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation, with the exception of the readmission issues. it's not a deal that's causing problems.
in writing. i voted in favour of the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european commission and indonesia, with the exception of the readmission issues. the aim of the agreement is to strengthen eu-indonesia relations, in addition to existing arrangements, and to address global challenges on the basis of common principles such as equality, mutual respect, good governance, democracy and human rights.
in writing. the agreement is simply the european parliament's approval of the agreement, taking into account the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. the agreement still contains a section on trade and investment calling for full compliance with wto rules. the ultimate objective remains the establishment of a free trade agreement, as is already under way with six asean member countries. that is not my idea of international relations in solidarity. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the progress made since the signing of the comprehensive framework agreement for partnership and cooperation between the ec and indonesia in 2009. parliament welcomed the agreement, the first of its kind between the union and an asean country, and considered it to be a sign of the ever-growing importance of relations between the union and indonesia. in this particular case, the importance of the readmission clause in controlling migration flows between our countries is recalled.
in writing. i voted in favour of the interim report and the recommendation by mrs gomes on the ec-indonesia comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with regard to readmission issues. it's not a deal that's causing problems.
in writing. this text deals with the part of the ec-indonesia comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation concerning the readmission clause for illegal migrants. the readmission clause in this agreement seems to me to be necessary in order to ensure better control of migration flows and proper management of illegal immigration. i welcome the conclusion of this agreement with indonesia, which becomes the first member country of the association of southeast asian nations to sign an agreement including a clause on the readmission of illegal migrants. this should then be a first step towards the conclusion of a genuine readmission agreement between the european union and indonesia.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report approving the framework agreement on readmission. this clause plays a key role in cooperation with indonesia and is an essential element in ensuring the effective management of migration flows.
in writing. this is the part of the eu-indonesia comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation dealing with readmissions. even if the rapporteur, in her explanatory statement, asks the union to consider the possibility of suspension clauses when fundamental rights are violated by one of the parties and to put in place control mechanisms to guarantee the fundamental rights of returnees, this is by no means guaranteed in the agreement as proposed. readmission agreements are contrary to the most basic human rights, in particular for asylum seekers and their protection. i vote against it.
in writing. this agreement, which i voted for, has gone almost unnoticed in the news, and especially of course by the populist eurosceptics because it shows the reality of relations with turkey. an agreement on the resumption of illegal immigration has been signed with turkey. it therefore provides that any illegal european or turkish migrant will have to be deported. but the agreement applies to third country nationals who pass through turkey! this is an effective immigration policy while also fostering an important partnership. but why does it go unnoticed? perhaps because there is no controversy and it does not sell the press or the demagogic politics of the national front!
in writing. greece is one of the member states experiencing one of the highest migratory pressures in europe due to its geographical location. although in the third quarter of 2013 the agency frontex recognised an explosion in the number of illegal immigrants in bulgaria (+600% since 2012), italy (+380%) and hungary (+260%), greece remains the second country most affected by waves of illegal immigration. this called for urgent cooperation with turkey, whose negotiations had been dragging on since 2002. it is now done and i am glad of it. with the readmission agreement, the union establishes a new form of cooperation based on full reciprocity with the obligation to readmit turkish nationals and their families if they have not obtained a right of residence in the applicant state, as well as third-country nationals and stateless persons. dialogue with source and transit countries is an essential condition for combating illegal immigration. the national response to the regulation of migration flows is necessarily european. it is by being in europe that france can influence migration policy. outside, she'll only suffer.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. this agreement is important for turkey to readmit persons from the european union who do not have an autonomous right of residence in the requesting state.
in writing. despite highlighting some positive effects, such as the expected decrease in cross-border trafficking in human beings, this reciprocal agreement between the european union and turkey aims to deprive irregular migrants of their rights by applying simplified and expeditious return procedures to their country of origin. the obligation to readmit nationals also covers family members, i.e. spouse and minor unmarried children. i vote against this agreement which denies basic human rights.
in writing. turkey is the main transit country for illegal immigration into the european union. it is therefore essential to reach an agreement with turkey to provide for the return of illegal immigrants to turkey or to the third country. it is of course unthinkable that the european union should become a strainer. we therefore need specific regulations in this area to prevent any illegal entry into european territory. i therefore support this readmission agreement with turkey and am very pleased to have voted in favour of this report. however, in these negotiations turkey has behaved in an unacceptable manner. the eu will only ratify the agreement if the eu introduces concrete measures to facilitate the issuing of visas. the european commission has already taken a step towards turkey by drawing up an action plan in this area and now turkey wants more. we cannot afford to respond to such blackmail, especially when an agreement like this benefits both parties. europe must not let itself be dictated to in any way.
in writing. i voted against this recommendation of the european parliament on the readmission agreement between the european union and turkey. it is regrettable that the european parliament has voted in favour of such an agreement which is aimed at strengthening the european fortress and consolidating turkey's role as the european union's super-gendarme on migration. the european parliament is fully aware of the policies of the erdogan government. ngos have alerted us to the dramatic situation of migrants in turkey. this agreement is no longer a concern for migrants and asylum seekers who are in transit through turkey or seeking refuge there. the protection of their rights is almost non-existent and varies according to the actual or supposed political, cultural or religious affiliations of migrants. this agreement is dangerous and will only increase human rights violations in a country which already has a serious record in this area. this agreement is all the more regrettable because the european union has not agreed, in return, to liberalize visas for turkish nationals, which is just a road map and not a proper agreement.
in writing. i voted for the recommendation for a decision on the extension of rule 147 until the end of the 8th legislature, which is not a problem.
in writing. i voted in favour of extending rule[nbsp ]147 of parliament's rules of procedure until the end of the eighth parliamentary term, which provides for derogations for interpretation in all languages when parliament has failed to have a sufficient number of interpreters for an official language, although the necessary measures have been taken to that end.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to extend rule 147 of parliament's rules of procedure until the end of the eighth parliamentary term. it is this article which allows for derogation from article 146 on the official languages of the union. translations and interpretation will therefore not necessarily be provided in all the official languages. this will promote the use of "globish" to discuss texts that are already written in "volapuk". i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this recommendation to extend rule[nbsp] 147 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament until the end of the eighth parliamentary term, i.e. in 2019. under the cover of a highly technical procedure which has obviously escaped many of my colleagues, the question is simply to continue during the next parliamentary term the derogations from the rule which obliges the european parliament to translate all these public texts into all the eu languages. this is therefore a further infringement of the right of everyone to have access to european parliament documents in their mother tongue. both the procedure for voting rules to apply to the next term of office and the substance of the proposal to reduce translations are inadmissible. such a decision is an obstacle to the exercise of european citizenship and to the democratic control of citizens over their elected representatives. the european parliament should be an example for all the european institutions in this area, whereas we are constantly going backwards in this area. linguistic diversity is one of the european union's core values. it must be translated into action at all times.
in writing. i voted for the casini report on the amendment of rule 166 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament concerning the final vote and rule 195 (3) concerning the vote in committee in order to bring more transparency to the european parliament's procedures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this amendment to the european parliament's rules of procedure to ensure that final votes on a report proposed in plenary, but also in committee, are by roll-call vote. this procedure will make voting more transparent.
in writing. i supported the adoption of several amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament to ensure greater transparency in the work of our assembly, most of whose deliberations are already available on the internet. it is important that our citizens should be able to know the positions of the european parliamentarians, from the committee stage onwards. i believe that this will help to highlight the real divisions between the various political groups on many subjects, before a final phase, that of compromise after lengthy negotiations with the council. it will also show the lack of involvement of some elected officials who use this mandate for electoral purposes only, without really getting involved. i regret, however, that there is no provision for explanations of vote which would make it possible to explain better the reasons for a positive or negative vote or even an abstention. finally, if meps must be honest about the choices they make, this should also be the case for the member states, whose deliberations in the council are most often held behind closed doors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report calling for more transparency within our institution. from now on, in committee as in plenary, all final votes will be by rollcall, which means that citizens will now be able to know, on each text, what we have voted. i have supported this right to systematic information for our fellow citizens from the beginning of the parliamentary proceedings.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report amending the rules of procedure of the european parliament to make public the vote of members in committee. this text is positive because it will make it easier to know the presence of members in committee votes and their positions. these votes, which precede and prepare the final vote in plenary, are important and constitute an important part of the work of meps. unfortunately, some members of parliament, such as marine le pen, do not take part in the work and votes of parliamentary committees.
in writing. despite a marked distrust of the measure under consideration, the fact that it envisages the generalization of voting by roll-call in order to improve the transparency of meps' positions wins our support. however, we feel it is important to express this distrust because it means that we are not being duped. it is indeed a measure "that does not eat bread" (note that this expression is untranslatable, so the case is the other way around). but it falls far short of what would be needed to make the european institutions democratic at last. allowing the people to know the content of the votes of the meps (and not yet in all cases where they speak on their behalf) only tackles a tiny part of the democratic problem posed by the european union. i vote for it.
in writing. i rejected almost all the amendments in plenary because i consider that they weaken considerably the text adopted by the tran committee. the independence of the infrastructure manager would be limited to the allocation of railway tracks and the pricing, while other functions must be performed independently (a fortiori in relation to the incumbent operator) in order to avoid any conflict of interest and any barrier to entry for new entrants, which are necessary for the development of sncf on the european market. the amendments also reduce the transparency requirements for financial flows within the integrated structures and reduce the power of the regulator.
in writing. this report provides a framework for opening up rail passenger transport to competition and sets out the rules for better governance, in particular between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertakings. i supported this report, which, following the vote in plenary, takes up the french, german and italian proposals. the result is a strict framework for opening up to competition: transparency rules allow fair access to the network for a new company, but the arrival of a new entrant can be stopped if it threatens the viability of an existing public service contract. several safeguards are also provided for in respect of respect for collective agreements and the transfer of staff in the event of market opening. in addition, the states remain free to choose the mode of organization and the degree of openness of their network, the modes of organization in the form of a holding company or under that of a historical company retaining close links with the infrastructure manager as in france, are guaranteed. finally, an integrated european ticketing system must be developed for the benefit of passengers.
in writing. the fourth railway package makes no secret of its objectives: to complete liberalisation. the unionists were nearly 4 000 on tuesday 25 february 2014 in front of the parliament, whistles and smoke flares in reinforcement. but they weren't the ones who made the best attempt at smoking. the commissioner for transport said he was disappointed with the parliament's vote on the report. he's got to be reassured. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the report is moderated on this point compared to the european commission's proposal, but compared to existing legislation, it is a leap forward towards more liberalisation. one of the most debated points, reciprocity, was incorporated in the el khadraoui report. on this basis, as soon as sncf is present in italy, for example, italian companies will have the right to be present on the french network. the european parliament wishes to protect the principle of an integrated structure to some extent, but the logic remains the same: to focus on the profits of railway companies at the expense of service for users and workers' rights. we voted against it.
in writing. - the report by mr el khadraoui is part of the fourth railway package which we have discussed a great deal in recent months. more than 50% of the european railway market is not free and rail transport within the european union still faces many technical barriers. there is a clear need to improve crossborder cooperation between operators in the sector, to ensure that all vehicles do not violate social standards and to increase the share of rail transport compared with other modes of transport. the opening up of the market must be accompanied by strict rules on passenger rights and the protection of workers, without neglecting the importance of a proper balance between the need to open up to competition and the protection of the public service obligations of each member state.
in writing. the railway package through different legislative instruments is supposed to regulate a sector which is particularly divided between the different member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. however, we have supported three main areas of action. first, we have defined single standards to ensure interoperability of rail networks across europe. secondly, we decided that it would be useful to open up the passenger transport market, but in a gradual and gradual way. finally, we defined the rules to be applied to the relations between railway operators and the railway network operator, which has a monopoly. we are now awaiting the council's position before entering into any negotiations with a view to reaching a final agreement.
in writing. i voted against the el khadraoui report on the 'single european railway area' because it confirms a logic of complete competition which runs counter to the public service. this 'governance' aspect of the rail package aims at complete organisational, financial and human separation between the network and the provision of rail services. this separation, designed to encourage the entry of new competitors to sncf on the market, calls into question an entire organisational model, industrial culture, know-how and all the synergies that arise from it in the name of competition. opening up to competition will bring nothing to the users, let alone the railway workers. on the contrary, it is the predominance of commercial logic over that of public service that is organized by this text. the less profitable lines will be served less or even abandoned, prices will rise and the quality of service will decline with the refusal to make the necessary investments. i reject this ambition and regret the commission's lack of flexibility in its desire to open up the rail market and its lack of respect for existing national organisational models, so i voted against this report.
in writing. this report is one of the most important texts of the 'fourth rail liberalization package'. under the leadership of a social democrat rapporteur, it is part of the continuity of the previous "packages" which organise the liberal revolution against the gains of the people. it dramatically reinforces the logic of european competition in rail transport activities by establishing the principle of total openness and separation between network management activities and passenger and goods transport activities. this logic has already shown its disastrous consequences for the staff, equipment and service. the 'minimum social rules in the railway sector' are, as the name suggests, bandages on a wooden leg. last but not least, states can only restrict private companies' access to their network if their public service contract is 'threatened'. so no state until the private sector has triggered disaster. and it is up to the european commission to set the rules on this. i am voting against this total destruction of the french acquis in the field of public rail services.
in writing. i welcome the outcome of this vote which has prevented the separation of infrastructure managers from railway operators, a technique that has never been proven to improve service quality and user safety.
in writing. the gradual opening up of national markets will soon be a reality. competition must be used to the advantage of a competitive environment which guarantees european users the best possible service. clear and precise regulations are essential to this ambitious project. i am in favour of a clever and supposed liberalisation of the market. the primary objective is to offer citizens a service that meets their needs. that is why i support the fourth package for a common railway area.
in writing. opening up rail transport to competition should stimulate a sector that is losing its competitiveness, to the benefit of all users. for this to happen, however, certain conditions are required: harmonisation of technical standards for interoperability and safety, harmonisation of social frameworks and, above all, separation of the infrastructure manager from any undertaking providing rail services. without such structural change, conflicts of interest will continue to be rife and new entrants will at some point be at a disadvantage compared to the operator linked to the infrastructure manager. some may not even be willing to go for it, because why would a railway company take the risk of paying the tolls to its competitor or not having the same access to maintenance sites or ticket offices that are worthy of the name? i therefore abstained in the final vote on the el khadraoui report, which completely ignores these concerns.
in writing. the eu rail market has undergone profound changes over the past decade, but is now facing problems such as barriers to competition, discrimination and a lack of a business-friendly environment. today there are too many scattered national procedures and standards that lack transparency. i supported this report in plenary because it provides a credible basis for discussion with the council and because it is important that this matter be dealt with quickly. i am nevertheless aware of its weaknesses and will remain vigilant during the negotiations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the el khadraoui report because the french socialist delegation succeeded in getting a number of amendments through which the liberalisation will be reduced, with the freedom for the organising authorities to decide whether or not to open their public service contracts to competition by means of a tendering procedure. we are convinced that the fact that the infrastructure manager belongs to a group which also carries out railway undertaking activities is a guarantee of efficiency and quality. it is a half-hearted victory, but a significant setback to the ultra-liberal orientation initially promoted by the european commission and supported by the european right, which now has a majority in the european parliament. i have, however, opposed the grosch report which envisages opening up national passenger transport to competition by 2019.
in writing. the fourth railway package was voted on in the european parliament on 26 february. this set of six directives and regulations makes no secret of its objective: to complete the liberalisation of rail. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. this is a little below what the commission originally wanted. the report has notably mitigated the strict separation between infrastructure managers and transport operators but compared to existing legislation, it is a leap forward towards completing rail liberalisation. one of the most debated points, reciprocity, has been incorporated into the european parliament's text. on this basis, as soon as sncf is present in another member state, the companies of that state may require to be present on the french network and vice versa. this reciprocity clause also applies to international trade. the european parliament is therefore trying to protect the principle of an integrated structure to some extent, but the logic of liberalisation remains the same: to focus on the profits of railway companies at the expense of the service for users and the rights of employees. i therefore voted against this new phase of the destruction of the public railway service.
in writing. since the 1990s, the european commission has carried out various reforms with one main objective: to open up the rail market to competition. today's vote on the governance aspect of the fourth railway package is a victory for users and workers, who are not usually the big winners in unregulated competition. the challenges here are broader: it is a question of combating climate change, of defining a new model of development and spatial planning. the total unbundling, i.e. the vertical separation between infrastructure managers on the one hand and railway operators on the other, is not the panacea for me: the harmful effects of excessive liberalisation of public services have already been measured wherever it has taken place. that is why i supported the amendments tabled by the socialists in plenary in favour of greater flexibility, for a single european railway area based not primarily on lowering costs but on improving services, at the service of the citizen.
in writing. while the european commission proposed to open up rail passenger transport to competition in france and throughout the eu, i regret that our parliament has decided to neglect the interests of passengers and protect national monopolies. the socialist and green meps have in particular taken up the position of the lobbies of historic railway companies, which aim to make it difficult to open the french market effectively in 2020. with these arrangements, the incumbent rail operators will control the infrastructure, which is feared by the 'newcomers', who fear that access to the market will be blocked. with train ticket prices reaching exorbitant levels, our assembly should have supported the commission's proposals to separate the infrastructure manager from the railway operators, which would have ensured healthier competition and therefore lower train ticket prices for the benefit of european passengers, without sacrificing the quality of service.
in writing. i also rejected most of the amendments tabled by the plenary on this report, which deal with market opening and public service obligations.
in writing. public services must remain a national competence. under no circumstances should the commission or any other european institution have a right of inspection over any means of transport which the member states successfully manage. the opening of markets for national rail passenger services will have a negative impact on the railway and the economy that depends on it. liberalisation has created more problems than it has solved in the member states which have experienced it. for example, the disruption of the british railways, despite its insular nature, should encourage us to be more cautious and to keep the railway in the national public sector. nevertheless, in france, the public nature of the airline should not prevent structural reforms to streamline the management of the national airline.
in writing. the report by mathieu grosch (epp, belgium) is one of the central pillars of the fourth railway package. the report also calls for a wide-ranging opening up of the markets for passenger transport, following the liberalization of international freight and passenger transport. one of the measures proposed by the european commission is the prohibition of direct award of contracts by local authorities to railway undertakings, with the obligation to go through tendering procedures. beyond the additional cost that these procedures will entail for public authorities, this is an infringement of their right to organise transport services in a way that responds as much as possible to the needs of users. the european parliament has somewhat watered down the european commission's initial proposal on this point and wants the possibility of granting the aid to continue, but under very strict conditions. national authorities will have to justify this on the basis of criteria such as punctuality of services, cost-effectiveness, frequency of services and user satisfaction. despite this small change in relation to the european commission's proposal, this text is a leap forward towards more liberalisation. we therefore voted against it without hesitation.
in writing. - mr grosch's report refers to national rail passenger services. there is a need to increase competition in rail transport, not only because it promotes growth and employment in the country, but also because the train is one of the least polluting means of transport for our environment, with reduced greenhouse gas and co2 emissions. the aim should be to increase the quality, volume and efficiency of passenger transport services by improving existing facilities and creating new ones where these are not sufficient to ensure a good level of use by passengers. only 7% of the european population travels by train. this indicates how much more needs to be done to make rail passenger transport more efficient and competitive.
in writing. the railway package through different legislative instruments is supposed to regulate a sector which is particularly divided between the different member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. however, we have supported three main areas of action. first, we have defined single standards to ensure interoperability of rail networks across europe. secondly, we decided that it would be useful to open up the passenger transport market, but in a gradual and gradual way. finally, we defined the rules to be applied to the relations between railway operators and the railway network operator, which has a monopoly. we are now awaiting the council's position before entering into any negotiations with a view to reaching a final agreement.
in writing. i voted against the grosch report on 'opening of the market for national rail passenger services' as it envisages opening as from december 2019. on that date, all new contracts from 2019 onwards or renewals of contracts expiring until the end of 2022 will follow new procurement rules. any direct award of public service contracts to sncf will therefore have to be motivated by criteria of punctuality, reliability and cost/benefit. the latter criteria would allow new competitors who do not have the same social obligations, or who do not finance the service on less profitable lines, to break market prices and thus challenge the existing cross-financing model (the most profitable lines subsidize the least profitable). the report also requires the presence of at least three competing operators in a country such as france. in view of the inherent danger of opening up railways to competition, which remains a vital service for the economy of our territories, and in view of the incompatibility of the logic of competition with the very notion of a public service, i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. this directive is very clearly an anti-public service directive which aims to deprive the national authorities of their last possibilities of action in the field of rail and public transport policy. it is perfectly in line with the disastrous logic of the european commission in this fourth railway package, as well as in the three previous ones, to put rail services in competition. this competition has never made policy socially, economically or ecologically effective. the measures to deepen or improve it will worsen the already very bad situation of european rail transport. public transport must be put back at the heart of a policy of ecological transition. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the grosch report is acceptable because it has brought some flexibility to the european commission's initial proposal on the award of public service contracts. this flexibility is necessary to take into account the different legal traditions of the member states in their model of railway governance.
in writing. rail transport is one of the few modes of transport where the liberalisation process has not been completed. as a result, it has lost competitiveness and has not experienced the price reductions that can be observed in air transport in particular. however, the opening up to competition must be done under appropriate conditions. the grosch report takes account of the need to boost the railway sector without, however, prejudicing the public service obligation, smaller networks and each other's cultures and historical achievements, leaving transport organising authorities flexibility in the choice of procedures. i regret, however, the rejection of the obligation to transfer staff in the event of a change of operator and the adoption of reciprocity measures which risk unfairly penalising certain french subsidiaries. i therefore abstained in the final vote on this report.
in writing. the eu rail market has undergone profound changes over the past decade, but is now facing problems such as barriers to competition, discrimination and a lack of a business-friendly environment. i voted in favour of this report because its proposals preserve public service obligations, while leaving the transport authorities flexibility in the choice of procedures, and at the same time protecting the rights and privileges of workers. parliament has paid particular attention to the protection of employment, the staff regulations and working conditions, against which such a reform could not be carried out.
in writing. this report is one of the central pillars of the fourth railway package, which aims to complete the liberalisation of the railway. one of the measures proposed by the european commission to achieve this is the prohibition of direct award of contracts by local authorities to railway undertakings, with the obligation to go through tendering procedures. beyond the additional cost that these procedures will entail for public authorities, this is an infringement of their right to organise transport services in a way that responds as much as possible to the needs of users. the european parliament has somewhat softened the european commission's initial proposal on this specific point by opening up the possibility of granting a stay but under very strict conditions. national authorities will have to justify this on the basis of criteria such as punctuality of services, cost-effectiveness, frequency of services and user satisfaction. the committee on transport has introduced an amendment to this text calling for a minimum service for workers in the event of a strike. fortunately, this was rejected in the vote in plenary. despite these minor developments, this text is a leap forward towards more liberalisation. we therefore voted against it without hesitation.
in writing. just as i have defended a liberalisation chosen in the realisation of a single european railway area, i voted against this report on the liberalisation of public service contracts (pscs) for passenger transport without, however, preventing the vote on the text, unfortunately. the promises of market opening, namely increased efficiency, lower costs and improved quality of services, are not backed up by reality. on the contrary, the harmful effects of the liberalization of public services are measurable wherever it takes place: i defend to this end, and on the contrary, the freedom for the organizing authorities to decide whether or not to open their public service contracts to competition, that is to say, whether or not to go through a tendering procedure. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of employment.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text which provides for the opening up to competition of all rail passenger services by 2020 for profitable lines and 2022 for public service subcontracted lines. this legislation is flexible and balanced, since it allows local authorities to award the public service contract directly or by tendering procedure, and to define the criteria for the contracts: punctuality, frequency of services, customer satisfaction, quality of rolling stock. in short, this text gives greater freedom to local and regional authorities, by proposing liberalisation compatible with the public service, optimal service of the territory and guaranteed quality of service.
in writing. i voted for the bilbao report on the interoperability of the rail system, a relatively consensual report, which includes all the measures relating to the harmonisation of technical requirements and the agency's role as a one-stop shop, in order to make certification procedures faster and cheaper for companies. this pillar is nevertheless strongly correlated with the political pillar, for what is the point of having the technical means to run trains throughout europe if market access is restricted in some countries? in addition, there are differences with the council, which is reluctant to strengthen the agency's powers.
in writing. the text provides for the harmonisation of the management of the european rolling stock market. the aim is to achieve a more integrated rail network. the creation of a european vehicle register which would sanction the conformity of the equipment used seems to me to be of particular interest. in addition to the job creation that this will generate, the text aims to make transport more fluid and eco-sustainable.
in writing. the report by izaskun bilbao barandica (spanish liberal party) on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union is one of the six regulations and directives making up the fourth railway package which aims to complete the liberalisation of rail. the fourth railway package is divided into a political and a technical component. the question of interoperability is part of the allegedly technical aspect. what is interoperability? in short: the ability to run trains without difficulty on railway networks in different member states. this measure is therefore far from neutral. for the french authorities, it is even 'one of the factors enabling effective access to the various national markets' and for sncf 'a major challenge in terms of competitiveness'. interoperability could help to improve railway cooperation at eu level, but in the context of the liberalisation policy it is just another tool to encourage competition between railway companies at the expense of the rights and safety of users and workers. we vote against.
in writing. - the first directive on railway interoperability was directive 96/48/ec on high-speed rail, which was supplemented by directive 2001/16/ec on trans-european conventional rail transport. in 2008 both were repealed by the directive on the interoperability of the european rail system currently in force (directive 2008/57/ec) as amended by directive 2009/13/ec and directive 2011/18/eu. the commission proposal aims to reduce by 20% the time taken by a new company to market its products and by the same percentage the time and costs involved for manufacturers in certifying rolling stock. the aim is to strengthen the role of the european railway agency (era) as a single point of contact. the afe should also facilitate the development of ertms and have the knowledge of the national agencies with which it will have to define the mutual relations.
in writing. the 'railway package', through various legislative instruments, is supposed to regulate a sector which is particularly fragmented between the different member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. however, we have supported three main areas of action. first, we have defined single standards to ensure interoperability of rail networks across europe. secondly, we decided that it would be useful to open up the passenger transport market, but in a gradual and gradual way. finally, we defined the rules to be applied to the relations between railway operators and the railway network operator, which has a monopoly. we are now awaiting the council's position before entering into any negotiations with a view to reaching a final agreement.
in writing. i voted against the bilbao barandica report on the 'interoperability of the railway system within the european union', because under the guise of harmonising rolling stock it organises competition by strengthening the technical interoperability of equipment (locomotives, wagons). the substance of this report is not to harmonize the standards of rolling stock upwards but to allow easier entry into other markets, and i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the texts which constitute the railway package because they provide concrete elements from a technical point of view to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the european railway area in the field of safety. the safety rules for railways would be improved by a european management of equipment certification under the european railway agency. these provisions would increase economies of scale for railway undertakings operating in the european union by reducing administrative costs and speeding up procedures. the provisions on the opening of markets should also improve competition in this sector while taking into account the public service obligation and the working conditions of the staff.
in writing. this text, which appears to be technical, underpins the liberal logic of european competition in rail transport markets which is that of the fourth railway package. the search for interoperability is not in itself a bad measure, but it becomes one when the sole objective is to prevent member states from interfering in any way with the sacrosanct rule of free and undistorted competition. instead, the eu should develop a continental multimodal transport plan to drastically reduce road transport. while this text makes a great deal of reference to measures to harmonize european technical rules affecting rail transport, there is still no mention of harmonizing social rules from the top down. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i am very happy with the outcome of this vote. the solutions proposed in the context of the revision of the interoperability directive did not seem to me to be appropriate and we have changed them considerably. it's a win.
in writing. the report by izaskun bilbao barandica (spanish liberal party) on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union is one of the six regulations and directives that make up the fourth railway package, which aims to complete the liberalisation of rail. the 4th railway package is divided into a political and a technical component. the question of interoperability is part of the allegedly technical aspect. what does interoperability mean? in a nutshell: the ability to run trains without difficulty on railway networks in different member states. this measure is therefore far from neutral. the french authorities even consider it to be 'one of the factors enabling effective access to the various national markets' and sncf considers it to be 'a major challenge in terms of competitiveness'. interoperability could help to improve railway cooperation at eu level, but in the context of the liberalisation policy it is just one more tool to encourage competition between railway companies at the expense of the rights and safety of users and workers. we vote against.
in writing. focusing on the removal of the remaining administrative and technical barriers between member states, this text, which i fully supported, contributes to harmonising safety rules and to streamlining rail traffic in the eu.
in writing. i voted for the cramer report on railway safety, a relatively consensual report, which includes all the measures relating to the harmonisation of technical requirements and the agency's role as a one-stop shop, in order to make certification procedures faster and cheaper for companies. this pillar is nevertheless strongly correlated with the political pillar, for what is the point of having the technical means to run trains throughout europe if market access is restricted in some countries? in addition, there are differences with the council, which is reluctant to strengthen the agency's powers.
in writing. this text establishes a common regulatory framework for railway safety. together with the interoperability text, it sets the benchmarks for the necessary harmonisation of certification and safety requirements for railway undertakings. in particular, i support the creation of a single safety certificate valid and recognised in all member states as it contributes to greater safety on the union's railways.
in writing. new legislation on rail safety is not a priority, especially at the european level, which is not adapted to the situation and is not in a position to know the reality on the ground. the work done by the member states in the field of railway safety is largely sufficient, as the rapporteur acknowledges in his explanatory statement. "rail is already the safest mode of transport in the european union and has further improved its safety performance over the past decades".adding legislation at european level increases the cost and administrative burden in the member states, making european policies incompatible with current economic problems.
in writing. the fourth railway package was voted on in the european parliament on 26 february. the package makes no secret of its objectives: to complete the liberalisation of the railways. the report by michael cramer (germany - various interests) focuses on railway safety. by dogmatically liberalizing, out of pure ultra-liberal ideology, the commission and the successive majorities of this parliament have seriously undermined the safety of rail passengers and staff. the fatal accident in brétigny, france, last july is unfortunately one of the consequences of this. this report refuses to take these realities into account. we therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - although rail transport is one of the safest modes of transport in the european union, accidents, however rare, can have disastrous consequences for human life and the environment. railway safety is critically dependent on the interaction between all actors, namely between undertakings, infrastructure managers, the railway sector and safety authorities. it is therefore necessary that safety legislation takes account of these developments and establishes appropriate information, management and emergency procedures and tools. the aim is to maintain and further improve railway safety by speeding up certification procedures and leading to savings in time and resources.
in writing. i abstained on the cramer report on 'railway safety' because the proposed standards for safety systems do not improve much on those applied by sncf. these new european standards are above all an opportunity to facilitate the movement of european trains on french soil and thus the arrival of new european competitors with their rolling stock (locomotives, wagons). however, i did not want to oppose any improvement in safety rules in other member states of the european union, so i abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of the texts which constitute the railway package because they provide concrete elements from a technical point of view to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the european railway area in the field of safety. the safety rules for railways would be improved by a european management of equipment certification under the european railway agency. these provisions would increase economies of scale for railway undertakings operating in the european union by reducing administrative costs and speeding up procedures. the provisions on the opening of markets should also improve competition in this sector while taking into account the public service obligation and the working conditions of the staff.
in writing. the principle of strengthening safety rules in rail transport is good and necessary. unfortunately, the commission's directive does not go in that direction. the commission has no intention of imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of certain steel products originating in the people's republic of china. the role of the states in defining safety rules is thus reduced to a reasonable proportion. there is still an unelected authority which does not represent the consumer and workers' organisations. it would be responsible for defining and guiding european security policy. this text advocates the establishment of a 'principle of equity', equity is not a measurable principle. what is the significance of this text compared with its shortcomings and the deplorable consequences for the security of european competition? i am voting against this text, which is nothing but a manifestation of the liberal technocracy of the european union.
in writing. i supported the strengthening and simplification of safety rules suggested by the european commission and am very satisfied overall with the outcome of this vote, which has allocated the responsibilities between the railway agency and the national authorities in terms of safety.
in writing. rail is already the safest mode of transport in the european union and has further improved its safety performance over the past decades. while its transport performance has risen from around 200 billion passenger kilometres in 1970 to over 300 billion today, the average annual number of passenger deaths travelling by rail has fallen from around 400 in the early 1970s to less than 100 today. although serious railway accidents are rare, enhanced railway safety in the union remains essential[nbsp]; i have therefore supported this report in the plenary.
in writing. - since 1970, rail traffic has increased by 50% in the eu (from 200 000 million passengers/km to over 300 000), while accidental deaths have fallen by a quarter (less than 100). although rail is the safest mode of transport, there are still accidents that require increased safety. since the 1990s, three major european railway packages have been adopted. continuous development of the environment and the discovery of deficiencies makes it possible to constantly improve safety. in this process, legislation has a key role to play in ensuring effective interaction between undertakings, infrastructure managers and responsible authorities. the revision of directive 2004/49/ec will introduce a 'single safety certificate' through the european railway agency and an improvement of safety procedures with the obligation to establish emergency plans for accidents and a plan for the care of victims. in this connection, i regret that the s&d group's proposal that management systems should provide for the duplication of safety systems on all sections of the european rail network, redundant systems, in order to reduce risks to a minimum and avoid tragedies such as that of angrois, did not succeed.
in writing. the fourth railway package was voted on in the european parliament on 26 february. the package makes no secret of its objectives: to complete the liberalisation of the railways. the report by michael cramer (greens) deals with railway safety. by dogmatically liberalizing for the sake of ultra-liberal ideology, the commission and the successive majorities in this parliament have seriously undermined the safety of rail passengers and staff. this report refuses to take these realities into account. the report does however take a positive approach to the issue of working time control by discussing the possibility of the european union railway agency developing 'an on-board recording device for train drivers' driving and rest times'. the control of legislation through this control of working time is not, however, discussed in this report. worse still, it is being hampered by the vote on the zile report. the european parliament rejected a paragraph in this other report on the fourth railway package calling on the european commission to propose 'mandatory rules and regular checks'. i therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. i welcome this new legislation which strengthens the harmonisation of railway safety standards and defines the tasks and role of national safety authorities, in particular in accident investigations. this text will make it possible to prevent and manage these emergencies better.
in writing. i voted for the zile report on the european union agency for railways, a relatively consensual report, which includes all the measures relating to the harmonisation of technical requirements and the agency's role as a one-stop shop, in order to make certification procedures faster and less costly for companies. this pillar is nevertheless strongly correlated with the political pillar, for what is the point of having the technical means to run trains throughout europe if market access is restricted in some countries? in addition, there are differences with the council, which is reluctant to strengthen the agency's powers.
in writing. with this text, we are giving the european railway agency wider powers. it will centralise the executive tasks related to the railway package, in particular the system of authorisations and certifications, while ensuring cooperation with the national authorities and thus respecting the principle of subsidiarity. i welcome this progress towards the removal of administrative obstacles and the harmonisation of the rules applied to the rail networks of the member states to achieve a more integrated network.
in writing. the fourth railway package was voted on in the european parliament on 26 february. this set of six directives and regulations makes no secret of its objective: to complete the liberalisation of rail. the reports are divided into two parts: the so-called 'political' texts and the so-called 'technical' texts. the report by roberts zīle, a latvian conservative, is part of the so-called technical strand and concerns the european union agency for railways. this report could have worked towards better control of drivers' working time, thus improving both the working conditions of employees and safety for all. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing techniques, such as the use of electronic data-processing machines, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing techniques. the introduction of common safety certification could be a positive measure if the objective were to increase safety, but the only compass is free and undistorted competition. we therefore voted against this report, which is devoid of any real possibility of improving security and which only serves to strengthen liberalisation.
in writing. - in order to ensure greater competition in the railway sector and to provide better transport services to passengers, parliament approved new rules. the eu rail market has undergone profound transformations in recent years, introduced gradually by several legislative packages. the aim today is to open up national markets and make railways more competitive and interoperable at eu level. this will also make it easier for new and small operators to access railway infrastructure by simplifying the complex authorisation procedures currently in place. national authorities will thus have the possibility to submit tenders for public service contracts through calls for tenders or directly to a railway operator, justifying the decision to award the contract directly, based on criteria of efficiency, cost-effectiveness, frequency of rail operations and customer satisfaction.
in writing. i voted against the zile report on the 'european union agency for railways' because it takes the agency out of its role of making recommendations for the issuing of authorisations to promote the technical opening up of the railway market. by allowing the agency to issue european marketing authorisations for equipment and safety certification for businesses, the aim is to facilitate the penetration of competitors and their equipment into national markets without the involvement of national safety agencies. the european railway agency will also have a role in monitoring national safety authorities and supervising the compliance of national rules with the european framework. in order to oppose this logic of exploiting harmonization to facilitate the entry of new competitors, i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the texts which constitute the railway package because they provide concrete elements from a technical point of view to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the european railway area in the field of safety. the safety rules for railways would be improved by a european management of equipment certification under the european railway agency. these provisions would increase economies of scale for railway undertakings operating in the european union by reducing administrative costs and speeding up procedures. the provisions on the opening of markets should also improve competition in this sector while taking into account the public service obligation and the working conditions of the staff.
in writing. by homogenizing the technical and safety rules for rail transport, this directive further deepens the technocratization of the european union. this is the sole purpose of competition and the limitation of the powers of the member states. thus, an unelected authority would have full discretion to abolish rules enacted by the states, for example on the grounds that they impede the "proper functioning of the market" in rail transport. this rejection of democratic procedures is a brutal regression to the methods of the old regime. it should also be noted that there are no plans to put an end to subcontracting, which has a negative impact on the safety of european railways. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i am very satisfied with the negotiations and the vote on this text. the latter clarify in particular the powers, responsibilities and tasks of the european railway agency and propose the introduction of a transitional period which would allow the european railway agency to 'rise' and provide it with the resources and expertise required by its new role in railway safety.
in writing. the european railway agency should become the one-stop shop for vehicle certification and authorisation procedures. this is the key to reducing costs for our companies, whether they are infrastructure managers, operators or manufacturers. i therefore voted in favour of the zile report, which develops the role of the agency in the field of interoperability and security. after a transitional period during which it will carry out these tasks in cooperation with the national authorities, the agency will become the organiser of a genuine unified european railway area. these measures should enable users to enjoy a secure and continuous service throughout europe and give our industry the opportunity to take full advantage of the internal market and thus preserve its preeminence at world level.
in writing. seven years after its creation, the european railway agency (era) is now fully operational and plays an important role in harmonising national safety and interoperability requirements and their gradual replacement by common technical specifications and common safety objectives and methods. in order to improve the current highly decentralised system, the commission proposed that the tfa be given a number of additional tasks of an executive nature, these activities being carried out at the request of the agency and under its direction and supervision. the work in the european parliament has been concluded in the same way, and i voted in favour of this so-called one-stop-shop solution in the plenary session.
in writing. the fourth railway package was voted on in the european parliament on 26 february. this set of six directives and regulations makes no secret of its objective: to complete the liberalisation of rail. the reports are divided into two parts: the so-called 'political' texts and the so-called 'technical' texts. the report by roberts zīle, a latvian conservative, is part of the so-called technical strand and concerns the european union agency for railways. this report could have worked towards better control of drivers' working time, thus improving both the working conditions of employees and safety for all. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing techniques, such as the use of electronic data-processing machines, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing techniques. the introduction of common safety certification could be a positive measure if the objective were to increase safety, but the only compass is free and undistorted competition. we therefore voted against this report, which is devoid of any real possibility of improving security and which only serves to strengthen liberalisation.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text, which is eagerly awaited by the railway community. the new legislation will significantly simplify the procedures for the issuing of marketing authorisations for railway vehicles and safety certificates by giving the european railway agency a new role as a one-stop shop. replacing a host of extremely complex and costly national procedures, this legislation is a boon for passengers and rail operators. proof that the eu can have exceptional added value in certain areas!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the standardisation of the accounts of railway undertakings, which completes the fourth railway package.
in writing. the eu is thus repealing a regulation which allowed member states to compensate railway undertakings for the costs of obligations which undertakings in other modes of transport are not obliged to bear. it is therefore important to abandon an outdated regulation since the liberalisation of the rail transport sector and to put all companies in the sector on an equal footing.
in writing. the report on 'standardization of accounts of railway undertakings' by jaromir kohlicek is part of the so-called technical pillar of the fourth railway package. a 1969 regulation authorises member states to pay financial compensation to railway undertakings, a list of which is given and of which sncf is a member, for expenditure relating to obligations such as family allowances and pension charges. the european commission wants to repeal this directive, which it considers incompatible with the directive establishing a single european railway area. jaromir kholicek tried to minimise the negative effects of this repeal during the negotiations, in particular by tabled amendments in plenary, and obtained a two-year extension of the measure. despite the efforts of the rapporteur, this text is an integral part of the fourth railway package and is part of the logic of liberalisation. moreover, by accepting the repeal of the 1969 directive, this report endangers the social conditions of railway workers. we voted against this report.
in writing. - regulation (eec) no 1192/69 on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings was discussed in the context of the fourth railway package. the aim is to bring railway undertakings on an equal footing with other transport undertakings. this regulation will therefore allow member states to compensate railway undertakings for the payment of obligations, such as special payments for accidents at work, pensions for railway workers or payments for equipment costs, which undertakings operating in other transport sectors do not have to bear.
in writing. i voted against the kohlicek report on the 'normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings' because it seeks to repeal a regulation which allowed states to pay financial compensation to companies which had financial obligations towards their former employees (such as early retirement pensions, family allowances, pensions for accidents at work and other special schemes for railway workers). the aim of the regulation was to compensate incumbent railway companies with such financial obligations so that they would not be disadvantaged in competition with new entrants who do not have such social obligations or who refuse to do so. rather than extending these social obligations to all, they were tolerated by compensating the costs. however, if this possibility is removed in the name of competition law rather than extending these social obligations to all railway companies, these social acquis are put in great danger. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the texts which constitute the railway package because they provide concrete elements from a technical point of view to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the european railway area in the field of safety. the safety rules for railways would be improved by a european management of equipment certification under the european railway agency. these provisions would increase economies of scale for railway undertakings operating in the european union by reducing administrative costs and speeding up procedures. the provisions on the opening of markets should also improve competition in this sector while taking into account the public service obligation and the working conditions of the staff.
in writing. this report deals with the abolition of a regulation which regulated the financing of pensions and accidents at work for our fellow railway workers. the rapporteur, instead of preserving this minimum, simply postpones the deadline. the rapporteur calls for the guarantee of pension and allowance benefits, but instead of fighting the fourth railway package, which will result in competition for railway workers and a deterioration in their working conditions, the rapporteur proposes to postpone the full application of the package for two years. i can't be satisfied with such a pitiful "lesser evil". the aim is to eliminate the possibility for the states to pay compensation to railway undertakings in connection with their social obligations. the text thus attacks the ability of the states to finance an efficient social system and decent working conditions for employees, which is unacceptable. i vote against it.
in writing. i share the kohlicek report's analysis and welcome the fact that the date of repeal of the regulation has been changed.
in writing. the report on 'standardisation of accounts for railway undertakings' by jaromir kholicek, member of the european parliament for the gue-ngl, is part of the so-called technical pillar of the fourth railway package. a 1969 regulation authorises member states to pay financial compensation to railway undertakings, a list of which is given and of which sncf is a member, for expenditure relating to obligations such as family allowances and pension charges. the european commission wants to repeal this directive, which it considers incompatible with the directive establishing a single european railway area. jaromir kholicek tried to mitigate the negative effects of this repeal as much as possible during the negotiations and by tabled amendments in plenary, and obtained the postponement of this measure by 2 years. despite the efforts of the rapporteur, this text is an integral part of the fourth railway package and is part of the logic of liberalisation. moreover, by accepting the repeal of the 1969 directive, this report endangers the social conditions of railway workers. we voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague christine de veyrac on the regulation on occurrence reports in civil aviation. the aim of this regulation is to strengthen the collection, analysis and processing of information related to aviation safety in order to better identify risks and take the necessary corrective action before they lead to a crash.
in writing. i voted in favour of this excellent report on the development of common rules for civil aviation occurrence reports. the vote will thus help to strengthen aviation safety and passenger safety in the european union. it is necessary to identify and report existing aviation safety deficiencies in order to prevent their recurrence. this is why this text calls for proactive collection and analysis of civil aviation events. i welcome this important step forward for aviation safety, which will allow staff to report incidents without fear of sanctions or legal proceedings. in addition, it was necessary to facilitate the exchange of information collected between member states with a secure database.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this regulation, which will improve civil aviation safety by deepening the accident prevention system and the rapid exchange of information. new staff protection measures should therefore improve the quality and quantity of incident reporting by civil aviation staff and thus improve accident prediction. the role of the european aviation safety agency is also strengthened in order to achieve these objectives.
in writing. improving civil aviation safety is a respectable ambition. the commission's text provides some interesting information in this area. i note that the de veyrac report usefully supplements the commission's text on one point, by asking for the number of hours worked by crew members in the event of an incident due to fatigue. however, in the absence of a specific procedure at european level for reporting this type of information (and other information) anonymously and, above all, without the management of the company concerned being informed, i doubt the real effectiveness of the whole system. i am voting for it to encourage these advances.
in writing. the report aims to strengthen preventive aviation safety measures to reduce the number of air accidents despite the constant increase in traffic. it intends in particular to deepen the proactive accident prevention system by analysing and rapidly exchanging information. in practical terms, member states and the european aviation safety agency (easa) will be able to better exchange information collected in the european central repository (ecr), an anonymised and secure database. the easa will play a central role in coordinating the work of the network with the 28 to identify trends at european level. the agency will have full and unlimited access to the data contained in the nce, which should in particular ensure that the trends observed by the organisations and member states are verified at european level. i supported this report.
in writing. today, flying is very much a part of the daily lives of europeans. the safety of passengers is therefore paramount. european legislation on aviation safety has shown its limits. we must strengthen the prevention of air accidents by enabling airline employees to report mistakes without fear of retaliation from their employers. the exchange of information between the member states and the european aviation safety agency must also be promoted so that these problems do not recur. we must not, under any circumstances, become involved in national policies when it comes to air safety. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report in order to build a european policy which promotes aviation safety throughout europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system. the ecall system will be mandatory in all new vehicles by 2015. this system allows the vehicle to contact the emergency services if you are unable to do so (illness, accident, etc.). and all over europe, too! it is estimated that this could save almost 2,500 lives in europe. the system will be free of charge
in writing. the purpose of this text is to equip vehicles in the european union with an ecall in-vehicle system. i have supported the introduction of such a system which would improve road safety and the safety of citizens through early warning by emergency services. the ecall system allows for early warning of emergencies in the event of a road accident and thus faster assistance. i welcome the adoption of such a text, which should help to reduce the number of deaths and injuries caused by road accidents. however, it is true that in the deployment of this system it is necessary to ensure adequate protection of personal data.
in writing. the implementation of the ecall system will be a real step forward for all european citizens. this technological system, which is being integrated into new passenger car models, could enable emergency services to be contacted automatically via 112 in the event of a serious road accident. the rescue operation would be facilitated by obtaining precise information on the place of the accident, the type of vehicle, the type of fuel. this text, which still needs to be discussed with the council, could make the system operational in 2015.
in writing. the desire to improve the responsiveness of rescue services, and thus the chances of survival, in the event of an accident or incident is a worthy goal. however, i wonder why the commission and mrs sehnalová want to introduce private 'value-added' ecall systems in this project. one of two things: either this means that they consider the planned public system to be ineffective, or they consider it to be effective but feel that the wealthiest citizens, who are the only ones able to pay for private 'value-added' ecall systems, deserve a better emergency system than others. it seems to me that a distinction between rich and poor is being introduced here which has no place. on the other hand, i am opposed to the use of private centres for emergency calls. i am opposed to this report.
in writing. i am pleased that we have adopted the ecall system because more than 2500 lives could be saved every year with this system. the report voted on leaves room for manoeuvre for the sector to develop and test the system.
in writing. i voted in favour of the sehnalova report because it is urgent that we equip our vehicles with the ecall in-vehicle emergency call system. this technology exists, is operational and could save many lives by speeding up the arrival of emergency services in the event of an accident. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data. we must also ensure, and this will be the subject of a report which will be voted on at a later date, that the emergency services are not overwhelmed by all these calls. this would be contrary to the objectives pursued, depriving those who really need help. in this respect, we will be particularly vigilant in preserving and encouraging the ability to distinguish between calls which are indeed vital and other calls.
in writing. i voted for the introduction of the e-call system. this text is of great importance to all drivers and passengers, who will soon be able to have vehicles equipped with emergency call devices, designed to automatically alert the emergency services in the event of a serious accident. as the minutes following an accident are crucial for trauma, it is vital to locate seriously injured vehicles quickly to allow emergency services to arrive at the scene as quickly as possible (the so-called "golden hour"). it is true that today this new system seems to be the vanguard. it is even seen by some as a threat to their personal freedom. yet, as lives are saved, i am convinced that it will gradually become "natural", as was the case with the wearing of seat belts in cars or helmets on motorcycles. i voted against the amendments which provide for the possibility of deactivating the system manually, because i see the ecall 112 as compulsory safety equipment subject to approval. this is how, by 2015, thousands of lives could be saved, and the severity of injuries to tens of thousands of victims could, i hope, be alleviated.
in writing. in 2012, there were more than one million accidents on european roads, resulting in approximately 28 000 deaths and more than 1.5 million injuries. in addition to the lives lost or destroyed, this tragedy also represents an annual cost to society of about 130 billion euros. the eu is strongly committed to reducing the number of road accidents and mitigating their consequences. when fully operational across the eu and available to every driver, ecall will make a significant contribution to achieving these objectives. its main advantage is the reduction in the number of road deaths and the severity of injuries caused by road accidents, as the emergency services arrive at the scene of accidents more quickly. i could therefore only support this report by my vote in plenary.
in writing. road accidents are one of the leading causes of death in europe. in 2012, 28,000 people died and over a million were seriously injured. the introduction of the vehicle-based ecall system, approved by the european parliament at its february 2014 session, will automatically alert emergency services in the event of an accident and locate the vehicle. the service, which is free for users and is expected to become mandatory from 2015, will also allow for faster response by emergency services and thus save more lives. the ecall system must comply with the highest data protection requirements. only information related to the accident or the vehicle, such as the type of fuel used or the number of seat belts, should be sent to the emergency centre. this should prevent drivers from being constantly monitored by the system and being able to disconnect from it if they wish.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation concerns the characteristics of an emergency call system, known as ecall, installed on certain vehicles and based on the 112 emergency number, which is intended to call for help in the event of an accident. under the guise of determining the standards for such devices to be used in the union, this legislation makes the installation and use of ecall mandatory for passenger and light commercial vehicles, whereas only 0,7% of them are currently equipped with ecall, mainly luxury vehicles using private emergency call systems. while it is a good idea to prevent emergency services from being called in at the first opportunity, it is to be feared that such measures are mainly used to compensate for the decline in public emergency services as a result of austerity policies. under the pretext of security, this legislation raises serious concerns about mass surveillance of individuals. the declarations on privacy made in plenary do not suffice to reassure against the risks of using the data collected for other purposes. i regret the rejection of the amendments calling for this system to be voluntary and that it can be disconnected if the driver so wishes. i therefore voted against this legislation, which unfortunately was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament.
in writing. i voted for the langen report on insurance intermediation. this will simplify insurance procedures in europe, facilitate the exchange of files and ultimately the service provided to customers.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to amend the current legislation on insurance intermediation. following the financial crisis in europe, it is necessary to ensure that the protection of the retail insurance market is strengthened. with this vote we wanted to give the european parliament the necessary negotiating tools to carry out the discussions with the other institutions of the european union in order to establish effective and appropriate measures. i think it is particularly important to ensure that appropriate action is taken in relation to linked or grouped sales.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i think it is important to distinguish between the different sales channels for insurance products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected.
in writing. - the collapse in consumer confidence following the financial crisis is not limited to retail banking services but also extends to the sale of insurance products. insurance plays an important role, especially at a time when consumers are most vulnerable and in need and depend on clear and fair rules for intermediaries. action is therefore needed to address the shortcomings and deficiencies highlighted by the global financial crisis, for example on the concept of tied sales and aggregated sales, on the rules on remuneration, on the geographical scope and on the scope of the directive.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on insurance intermediation because i believe that the role of the european union is essential in ensuring a high level of protection for european consumers. we must change the current balance of power, it is normal that the customer receives clear and complete information about the insured and excluded risks, the obligations inherent in the contracts, before signing an insurance contract. in addition, provision should be made to protect customers against the failure of an insurance provider to pay a premium or a claim.
in writing. in july 2012, the european commission proposed a revision of the insurance intermediation directive (imd) to strengthen the protection of users of insurance products. the directive regulates access to insurance and reinsurance mediation services and the pursuit of insurance mediation activities. the aim is to extend its scope to all distribution channels and to increase the level of harmonisation of administrative sanctions and measures in the event of infringement of the essential provisions of the current directive. but, as always, the logic behind this text is to 'strengthen the internal market' to create a genuine european internal market for insurance products and services. but here the main aim is to simplify the procedure for crossborder entry into the insurance markets in the eu. under the circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. i voted to support the agreement at first reading in parliament on the report by my colleague françoise grossetête, who has done a very good job on the 3rd health programme (2014-2020).
in writing. this excellent report by françoise grossetête rightly puts innovation at the service of the health of european citizens. it pays particular attention to raising awareness of risk factors (smoking, alcoholism, environment, etc.) for more effective prevention and awareness. a whole section of this text is devoted to inequalities in health and particularly in access to care, whether social or based on sex: an issue in this sector which is essential to address.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which provides access to better and safer healthcare for eu citizens. i am pleased that, in the current context, the union's health budget for the period 2014-2020 is increasing to almost €449 million. finally, i can only share the union's desire to pay particular attention to diseases linked to ageing.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the third programme of action of the union in the field of health for the period 2014-2020. with a budget of eur 446 million, this programme will enable the union to finance measures to address relevant challenges at european level and support the development of an important sector of the economy. the fund will focus on prevention, protecting citizens from cross-border health threats, innovation and improving access to care. the issues of population ageing are also taken into account.
in writing. the third action programme in the field of health proposes some advances in the field of care[nbsp]; he even denounces the impact of austerity measures on access to health care. but after the fine declarations, the necessary resources are not allocated, and the resolution contains odious references to the liberals' amoralism. illness is seen as a factor in lower productivity whereas health must support growth. "by preserving the health of the individual for as long as possible, and his or her ability to remain active both physically and socially, we can maximise its positive impact on productivity and competitiveness". the rapporteur, mrs grossetête, speaks of a 'high-tech industry, largely located in europe', but does not say a word about the relocated pharmaceutical industries or the closure of services and hospitals which led this week to the death of a woman in the waiting room of a parisian hospital for lack of medical care. i abstain from this so as not to share in this hypocrisy.
in writing. promoting the right of access to healthcare for all citizens in europe is a vital battle to be fought. the european union needs a common strategy to reduce the remaining inequalities between member states. however, policies must be implemented in an intelligent way. the promotion of access to health care must be accompanied by disease prevention measures and the encouragement of innovation in health care. i am very glad that i voted in favour of this report. it particularly highlights the deep need to better understand longevity as one of europe's major challenges.
in writing. this report looks at the renewal of the eu's health agenda for the new period 2014-2020, with four main objectives: to stimulate innovation, to improve access to better and safer healthcare, to promote good health and prevent disease and to protect citizens from cross-border health threats. i am pleased to see that, in the context of budget cuts affecting the eu budget, the financial resources allocated to this programme are higher than those initially proposed by the european commission (from 446 million to 449.4 million) and those for the programme covering the period 2008-2013, which was 321.5 million. i also welcome the fact that an amendment adopted by the european parliament has recognised the impact of austerity policies on access to health care and on the poorest. unfortunately, it has become almost a matter of course. however, this report does not address crucial issues for the eu, such as the relocation of the pharmaceutical industry or the risks of hospital closures as a consequence of the e-health policy, and once again endorses the logic of active ageing, in other words working more. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. i voted for the tosenovsky report on the guidelines for transeuropean telecommunications networks. the report covers a number of objectives: financing of broadband networks and prioritising digital service infrastructures with the overall objective of contributing to growth in line with the europe 2020 strategy; the total budget allocated to financial instruments for broadband networks should be 15% (i.e. eur 150 million); 1/3 of the broadband projects financed by the cef must reach speeds of more than 100 mbps; the first funding priority shall be given to reusable digital service infrastructures, such as electronic identification/authentication, secure electronic document distribution, machine translation for pan-european digital services, critical infrastructures supporting eu-wide cyber readiness and secure electronic invoicing. finally, europeana and safe internet for children were identified as potential candidates for funding for the disrupted service.
in writing. this text allows the establishment of trans-european telecommunications networks within the framework of the connecting europe facility (cef). it seems to me therefore important to work towards reducing the digital divide in europe and to provide access to these networks for all. the european union cannot afford to leave less populated regions on the margins of these communication technologies. although the budgetary constraints on this project are regrettable, it seems to me important to continue to stimulate investment in these high and very high-speed networks to strengthen the digital market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out the guidelines for the implementation of transeuropean telecommunications networks within the union. i welcome the increase in the competitiveness of the european economy, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises. in addition, the promotion of interconnection and interoperability of national networks is guaranteed, which makes it possible to take account of these new constraints.
in writing. after a few phrases promoting 'a better internet for children', we see the real purpose of the recast of this directive. as always, the aim is to increase 'european productivity' and 'develop the internal market'. the market of 500 million potential users is indeed attractive. the obsession with competition as the only way to "provide competitive, affordable services and the innovation needed by consumers and businesses" is repugnant to me. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. this liberalisation has increased inequality between consumers in a commercial and tariff model whose only beneficiaries are the shareholders of private rentier operators. i am voting against a text which is entirely consistent with this logic.
in writing. i voted for the report because it does not raise any major problems and is supported by all the political groups. this is a simple first reading, without a trilogue agreement, as the council has not made sufficient progress in its examination of the text. accessibility of websites is ensured by a set of principles and techniques that must be respected when designing websites in order to make their content accessible to all users, including those with disabilities. the market for website development is a relatively large economic sector: 175[nbsp ]000 companies within the european union, 1[nbsp ]million jobs, turnover of 144 billion euros (2009 figures). accessibility policy initiatives and commitments already exist at european level but will be strengthened and complemented by this report.
in writing. with this text, we are approximating the rules of the member states on the accessibility of public sector websites by setting harmonised requirements. indeed, public sector websites provide essential services. this is therefore a basic provision for people with mobility problems, such as the disabled or certain elderly people. there is a need to provide greater access to public services, such as job search services and social benefits for citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which makes it possible to stimulate the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites. to this end, i share the desire to strengthen the accessibility of the web in order to allow in particular disabled people to make the best use of websites.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites. more than 100 million european citizens, including the elderly and disabled, have difficulty accessing these websites to use online public services and less than 30% of websites are considered to be accessible to all today. the text, which was improved and brought into line with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, was to apply only to the websites of public sector bodies, but now covers all websites operated by entities with public missions, such as those of health and education services, public transport and tourism, water distribution, electricity, or postal services. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include mobile versions of websites. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. web accessibility is essential at a time when digital technology is becoming more widespread and the internet is becoming the preferred place for information and contact with public authorities. we must accompany this change by thinking of people who may have difficulties in accessing it. this is the case for the elderly and the disabled. computer solutions exist to make websites accessible to all, but they should be implemented by the member states' administrations in the first instance.
in writing. it is essential to promote the accessibility of the web for the greatest number of people. this is part of the principles we stand for with net neutrality and the protection of data of users of services on the internet. this is a step in the right direction. however, this report (as always) is placed in the context of the establishment of the digital single market: the standardisation of accessibility rules in all eu countries to be able to appeal, potentially, to all eu agencies. in addition, the implementation of the directive will lead to enormous additional costs for national, regional and local services. finally, the proposal is premature because the european standard in this area is being developed. under the guise of improving access to websites for people with disabilities, this is actually about increasing competition and pressure on member states. the process is disgusting. i vote against it.
in writing. the report proposes many improvements to the commission's proposal for a directive and endorses the first significant step at european level in the area of accessibility of the websites of public bodies and, moreover, of all websites operated by entities performing public tasks, thanks to the s&d meps and the rapporteur, which i welcome.
in writing. we must fight against the exclusion of people with functional limitations or disabilities. the european citizens must not be excluded from the information society linked to public services. public services are responsible to the whole population. these same people are often heavily addicted to the internet. for this reason, member states should take measures to increase the accessibility of public services on the web. i am very glad that i voted in favour of this report. it is true that several member states have already proposed some measures for web accessibility. however, a harmonised approach is needed to eliminate inequalities between the various countries of the union. it is by choosing a common strategy that we will succeed in increasing competition, competitiveness and economic growth in this europe in crisis.
in writing. currently, the vast majority of public administration websites are inaccessible to blind or partially sighted people. the directive is therefore particularly important in this context: it is time to give a legislative impetus to make changes, both in terms of basic accessibility and in terms of services offered online. we also took into account the growing demand from the public to be able to access information and services online through applications and mobile devices or to have easily downloadable online forms. we also stressed the importance of effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions for breaches of the provisions adopted pursuant to this text. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive is a very good one. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i am the rapporteur for the socialist group and i am satisfied with the result. web accessibility is not a gadget but an essential and increasingly indispensable element in the lives of people with disabilities. but in the absence of regulation, too few websites meet international accessibility standards, depriving our most vulnerable citizens, especially the elderly, of essential access to many services, including public services. i tabled amendments to extend the list of sites concerned to include those websites which fulfil a public service mission. the list adopted by parliament is much more ambitious than originally planned and includes a large number of administrative procedures and information for the benefit of citizens. finally, the directive will make it possible to make compliance with the standards for website accessibility a matter of course and encourage private actors to follow the example of the public service for disabled persons.
in writing. less than 30% of websites are considered to be accessible to everyone today. yet 15% of the working age population in the european union has a disability, and europe has 87 million people over the age of 65. more than 100 million european citizens, especially disabled and elderly people, have difficulties accessing public service websites. this is totally unacceptable: public services' websites must be designed in such a way that all citizens can access them. technology allows us to do this, an international technical standard covers all the criteria, we just have to decide, and that is the direction we have taken today! while the european commission proposed making public bodies' websites accessible by 2015, we have gone further: all sites fulfilling public service missions, such as health-related services, primary, secondary and higher education enrolments, cultural activities and tourist information, are now covered. the european council did not, however, open discussions on this text. it's time to make this a priority!
in writing. i voted for the klinz report on the long-term financing of the european economy. it is a question of taking a long-term view of the european economy in order to anticipate trends as far as possible and not rely on speculative bubbles which, when they burst, destroy the stability of european citizens.
in writing. this paper discusses the various possible ways of promoting long-term financing of the european economy. the economic and financial crisis has created a climate of uncertainty within the european union and has undermined investor confidence in european markets. it is therefore essential to consider how the european union can become once again an attractive area for investment, which is necessary for growth and employment. it also seems to me particularly appropriate to seek to facilitate access to bank or non-bank financing for smes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this green paper, given the real need for the european union to find long-term funding for its actions. i therefore support the four pillars of this green paper, which are centred on the efficiency and effectiveness of the financial markets in their ability to provide financing instruments. finally, i share the view of the european commission in its desire to facilitate access to finance for smes, since they are the economic lungs of many of our territories and the union must be able to help them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the long-term financing of the european economy which follows the publication of the commission's green paper and contributes with various measures to the promotion of long-term investment. improved long-term financing conditions would allow better financing of the real economy and would promote economic growth and job creation.
in writing. the report stresses the need for long-term investment in line with the needs of the real economy. it also recalls that public investment plays an essential role in long-term investment. it's time to remember. so far, everything is fine. the report even stresses that training and education costs should be treated as long-term investments. then it all goes to shit in a weird schizophrenia. on the one hand, it noted that the eu's international competitors, such as the united states and japan, maintained a high level of public investment and, on the other, it proposed that the eu should increase private investment. it proposes to turn to the financial markets to finance future investments, while at the same time noting that public financing is limited by the granting of state aid to rescue financial institutions. but above all, it avoids the simplest way of stimulating investment: the implementation of stimulus plans. this is impossible because "budgetary consolidation is the priority for public budgets". it would be sufficient, however, if the member states could borrow directly from the ecb. mr. klinz probably didn't think of that! i vote against it.
in writing. this own-initiative report, which follows the commission's green paper on the long-term financing of the european economy, is not without its obvious ambiguity. while emphasising the need for long-term investment to create jobs and achieve social and sustainable development, the text endorses and promotes all the austerity policies implemented by the eu in recent years. the report promotes public-private partnerships, without denouncing all the problems that also arise from these partnerships, which are now well known to everyone. the report supports the ongoing negotiations for an eu/us free trade agreement. i objected to this report.
in writing. the economic crisis has led to fiscal consolidation and investor protection policies. it has also revealed the perversions of a deregulated financial sector, which has led, rightly, to the tightening of prudential regulations. all these factors have made financing more complicated for the actors in the real economy. but it is our smes which are the main victims of this shrinking supply of finance. it is therefore essential that, in parallel with the management of risky behaviour, we facilitate access for our companies to sound and affordable financing. this requires action in three directions: better targeting of household savings towards investments that benefit the economy in the long term, better financial attractiveness of european companies through policies that favour their competitiveness and the reduction of administrative and regulatory burdens, and finally a stronger involvement of public authorities, for example through the development of public-private partnerships or the strengthening of public investment institutions. in the end, it is essential to support a project that combines regulation and stimulation for a sector which, despite the deviations, remains vital to the proper functioning of our economy.
in writing. i voted against this report on the long-term financing of the european economy. i would like to say that, given the current policies in this area, the title is sufficient. very little is said about the necessary long-term investments in education, research and development, innovation, the ecological transition or infrastructure. on the contrary, the report 'considers that high-quality securitisation can play a useful role in the financial intermediation of assets' believes that financial speculation can continue to flourish[nbsp ], praises public-private partnerships, 'welcomes the progress of the ongoing negotiations on ttip' (the great transatlantic trade and investment partnership) or 'stresses that a business climate favourable to investors [...] is an indispensable condition for making the european union an attractive destination for foreign investment'. in other words, no change in sight. the same policies are being pursued without regard for the consequences for social rights. we'd be disappointed if we could still be. yet the socialists and the greens voted overwhelmingly in favour.
in writing. the resolution, which punishes clients of prostitutes, proposed by mrs honeyball, is intended to be "a step towards full equality between men and women throughout the european union". in reality, this report undermines the sovereignty of the member states and promotes the gender theory. the priority should be to dismantle criminal networks, combat forced prostitution and make the sex trade more common. the report proposes the 'nordic model' to the member states and presents it as the only solution to combat prostitution. the resolution "urges the governments of the member states which reserve an alternative treatment for prostitution to review their legislation". the european union is once again seeking to infringe the sovereignty of the member states by imposing a social resolution. the text also condemns "gender stereotypes" linked to the commodification of women's bodies, a term used by advocates of gender theory. the initial fight against trafficking in women and criminal networks is supplanted by the introduction of gender ideology.
in writing. following discussions in several european countries, the european parliament has addressed the issue of sexual exploitation and prostitution through a number of networks operating within the eu. i supported the report by mary honeyball because it makes recommendations to the european commission on combating sexual exploitation, which is violence against women. the report calls on the european union and the member states to take measures to discourage the practice of sex tourism inside or outside the union. parliament called on the eu and its member states to develop a policy of prevention in the countries of origin of prostitutes through sanctions, awareness-raising campaigns and education. so the report is not against people who are prostitutes. thus, by recommending that the client be penalized and not the prostitute, it represents a further step towards full equality between men and women throughout the european union.
in writing. the issue of prostitution is a highly complex one. to draw up a catalogue of miracle solutions in a few pages of a report which has not been really debated, where ideas, approaches and experiences have not been confronted, is a clumsy if not risky undertaking. the author praises the swedish model of a total ban on prostitution and the penalisation of the client, but is unable to say on the basis of verifiable and indisputable data that this model has actually helped to reduce this phenomenon. can we not imagine that underground networks have developed, that the problem has been moved? as far as the resulting trafficking in human beings is concerned, i am in favour of the firm method. the people responsible for these networks must be hunted down and punished, these networks fought and dissolved. on social issues such as this, let us leave it to the member states to experiment with the model they consider most effective in combating trafficking and violence against women, but let us not prescribe to the european parliament a miracle and universal solution which ignores national identities and cultural trajectories.
in writing. i have decided to vote against the alternative resolution signed by several members of my political group and supported by the conservatives of the ecr, whose backward ideas on women's rights we regularly combat in this house. i have, however, supported the report by mary honeyball, which, while emphasising the gendered nature of prostitution, highlights its impact on gender equality by refusing to regard women's bodies as a commodity to be freely disposed of by men. i voted in favour of this text because it seeks to establish the link between prostitution, human trafficking and organised crime. they are intrinsically linked, trafficking not being a regrettable by-product of prostitution but the very condition of its existence. it therefore recommends that member states, in order to combat this phenomenon most effectively, should tackle demand, as provided for in the nordic model, which penalises the customer and not the prostitute. finally, and this seems to me to be a key point in this report, it stresses the need to propose credible alternatives and specific support measures to enable these people to be genuinely reintegrated into society.
in writing. prostitution is a matter for the member states. that is why i abstained on this report. we have no jurisdiction in this matter.
in writing. first reality: prostitution is an attack on the dignity of women and therefore on human rights. the report stresses that national legislation on this issue has direct consequences for gender equality and the perception of women as 'objects'. it clearly takes an abolitionist approach and advocates the decriminalization of prostitution. it establishes the direct link between prostitution and trafficking and the organised crime that organises this 'market', and demonstrates the harmful effects of the crisis on these women. the aim is to encourage member states to rapidly transpose the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims. i note that some greens have tabled a minority opinion against this report, referring only to 'forced prostitution'. i shall of course vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted for this report, on which i was rapporteur for the french delegation of the epp group. this paper examines issues such as mining and sustainable development, the role of the private sector, international trade and investment regimes and the use of revenues, and the disconnection of armed conflict from mineral exploitation. it is a question of responsibility, but also of stability in countries which can quickly become unstable because of the corruption surrounding raw materials.
in writing. this paper addresses the challenges of extractive industries in developing countries and calls for the promotion of responsible practices in these industries. it seems to me important to be sensitive not only to the environmental issues that the extractive industries represent but also to social issues. energy resources in developing countries are often linked to tensions and many conflicts. it is therefore legitimate to encourage extractive companies in developing countries to adopt transparency policies on their environmental and social standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which raises the opportunities and threats of mining in developing countries. a comprehensive strategy would thus make it possible to better manage mineral-fuelled conflicts and the environmental, social and human rights consequences of mining.
in writing. developing countries rich in natural resources are paradoxically often in more problematic situations than others (the phenomenon of the 'resource curse'). control, exploitation, trade and taxation of minerals can, in some cases, contribute to armed conflict. the aim is to adopt a comprehensive strategy to address the root causes of mineral-fuelled conflict, to better manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of mining, and to better support and integrate artisanal and small-scale mining. but beyond these general and generous principles, the text lacks practical aspects. the rapporteur calls on the authorities to ban prospecting and mining in national parks and world heritage sites, without specifying the counterparts of this non-exploitation. a concrete eu support in the yasuni itt project, the first such offer in the history of mankind, would have been more effective. while european regulation on this subject is welcome, i doubt that the measures mentioned in this report will be sufficient to stop mining at the expense of people and the human ecosystem. i'm not going to.
madam president, my first thoughts - as other colleagues have said - are of course with all those who were shot at in maidan last week. i would like to say that all those women and men who were prepared to give their lives in kiev did so in the name of values which are now being deprived of: the values of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, human dignity and respect for public and private freedoms. i think we should emphasize this, we who here in europe enjoy all these values. i would also like to stress that europe has of course been slow to act. it should have done so the day after the events of 30 november. but it should also be noted that when europe finally decides to act, when it does so in a coherent way, when it speaks with one voice and makes good decisions, then it can make a difference. it did so with the european council decision on sanctions and with the sending of a european mediation. the question is, in essence, the future of ukraine. what ukrainians want, whether they are from the east or the west, is to write a new page of their country. and when they look to europe, it's because they see europe as a lever for progress -- a lever for democratic progress, for all these values that we've just talked about, and a lever for economic progress. the urgent need is to revive and modernize the country's economy, to modernize agriculture, and to end corruption. yes, we must stand by them, we must organise a donor conference, we must provide urgent aid, and we must help them to fight the corruption that has gangrenously infected the ukrainian political class. a word about russia: yes, we need to talk to mr. putin. but mr. putin must understand that the future of ukraine must be written by ukrainians and in ukraine. we can discuss this with him, in particular so that the price of gas is no longer a political price that varies with time and a price linked to political blackmail. a word on the european perspective: we are all europeans, so we share a common destiny, but i think we will have to distinguish in the future between what is a politically integrated european union and what may be, tomorrow, the organisation of a wider europe, in circles.
in writing. faced with multiple internal crises and under heavy russian pressure, ukraine has experienced several episodes of violence in recent weeks, which led to the ousting of president yanukovych and the announcement of new elections for 25 may. in my view, the diplomats of the weimar triangle were attentive, efficient and coordinated, both among themselves and with european diplomacy. and although we have again been very critical of the 'absence' of the latter, i believe that it is now, at the stage of the democratic stabilisation of the country, that it will play its full role. the eu has a strong experience in this field, several suitable instruments and an already established network. the challenge now will be to include russia and the other countries it is seeking to bring into the eurasian union as well; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i would like to begin by thanking mr michel for his willingness and ability to try to bring all our views together. i would even say reconcile the irreconcilable, as i have already told him. our discussions have been sometimes heated, but the results are there. i would also like to thank the fictional rapporteurs who played the game and our collaborators for the work they have done. this report and its annex show us how fundamental rights are being violated within the european union, and the situation is getting worse, in particular because of the financial crisis and the inability of the european union and its member states to cope with it. an alternative resolution seeks to empty the report of its contents by explaining to us that these violations fall within the competence of the states. we know that, it is the implementation of the treaties. but treaties are also article 2; the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. and to respect these values is to ensure that the fundamental rights of women and men living in the territory of the european union are protected as well as goods and capital. and we are far from it! it is therefore not surprising that so many of our citizens no longer see the european dream as a distant horizon. this report sets out ways of finally putting these values into practice, and i welcome this. but while fundamental rights are universal, they are also indivisible. this means that economic and social rights must be respected as well as civil and political rights. the report is a little bit unbalanced in this area, which is why i have tabled a few amendments to that effect, and i hope that some of them will be adopted. i will give you one figure to support my point: between 2008 and 2012, the percentage of people living below the poverty line increased from 18 to 25%, not to mention the worsening of unemployment, especially among young people, especially in the countries of southern europe. in times of crisis, it is the most vulnerable who drink, whether they are the elderly, the disabled, migrants, roma, women or lgbt people, all those who want to disappear from the alternative resolution. some, in the heat of the siren, forget the values they are shouting about abroad. it's a matter of consistency.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every year we take part in this crucial exercise of assessing the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. but here again, and i regret it, we are being offered an ideological and off-topic report. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the report calls for the setting up of a copenhagen commission, for example, a kind of nebula that would be added to already very effective structures. i would like to know who the experts are who can judge whether fundamental rights are being respected. why should we want to politicize this issue at all costs when we already have impartial monitoring by the commission, the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights? the report attacks the police force, all amalgamated for abuse, for example. we want drugs to be decriminalized, which is still encouraging. and i shall need to be told how this relates to fundamental rights. i would also like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the left and the liberals do not have a monopoly on the defence of fundamental rights. the right has always been committed to the defence of human rights, and it is proud of this situation. for example, in my country, nicolas sarkozy did not wait for the left to establish a human rights defender in france. there has been one in every department since 2008, and it is for this reason in particular that we tabled our own alternative resolution, of which the epp is very proud. in fact, we still have a lot to do for fundamental rights in europe, for people with disabilities, for equality between men and women, against racism and against all forms of discrimination. the list is not exhaustive, but how could it be? be reasonable, don't name a category, it's not necessarily discriminating. and instead of protecting citizens, instead of trying to move forward together for the most vulnerable groups, the michel report counterproductively distorts the debate, when we should be fighting together for those who need it. that is why we shall be voting our own resolution.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on fundamental rights in the european union, which is based on the excellent report by our colleague mr louis michel, is always an important moment. this year's text again presents a frank and courageous analysis of the current situation in the member states. just as we often look critically at the situation of these rights in the rest of the world, it is our duty as european parliamentarians to recognise that in some areas the long march to equal rights still has to be made in the union too, and this is even more so as the economic crisis continues and leaves more and more marginalised people on the side of the road. so it is certainly our responsibility to condemn racist, anti-semitic, homophobic, transphobic and xenophobic violence, as well as discrimination against migrants and ethnic groups, all of which are at alarming levels, especially on the internet. and that also leads me to recall that the council must finally decide on the anti-discrimination directive adopted by parliament five years ago. but i also note from this report the call to the member states to review the legislation which provides for sanctions against persons who rescue migrants in distress at sea. in the face of tragedies such as that of lampedusa last october, we must put an end to practices which seriously endanger the lives of human beings, whatever their status. in the same vein, we call on the mediterranean working group to launch as soon as possible a comprehensive plan on immigration and asylum, based on solidarity and shared responsibility. in this process, all the european institutions and the member states must mobilise to significantly improve the rights of europeans. this debate also comes at a time when some of our european democracies are going through dark times and there is a strong smell of the 1930s in the air. i want to see the proof of this in the speeches in favour of building ever more sealed borders, withdrawing into oneself, looking for scapegoats for economic and social failures or the systematic denigration of institutions. this is an incredible challenge to the european values of non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. it is in this context that we should express our concerns. we must mobilize ourselves so that fundamental rights are not reduced to mere wishful thinking. and in an already worrying context, i think it's particularly surprising to see an alternative resolution blossom, one that masks real issues and removes, in particular, any reference to legal issues and sexual health or the nsa surveillance program.
the rapporteur. - madam president, good evening mr commissioner, good evening colleagues, and thank you for being here this late at night to discuss this important subject. i would first like to express my satisfaction with the drafting process which led to a unanimous vote in the committee on international trade on this subject. i would of course like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs, mrs köstinger and mrs bearder, mr martin, mr zahradil and mr murphy for their cooperation and to point out that we did vote unanimously on this resolution because we in the committee on international trade consider this to be a very important subject. there was this desire to send a clear signal to the commission and the council about the seriousness of our work and the ambition we have in the area of monitoring and regulating trade in timber and timber products, and the seriousness we take in this type of agreement with indonesia, in this case, and, previously, with certain african countries. it is also an opportunity for me to thank the indonesian authorities, the embassy and all the actors who have enabled us to work. as i said, we considered this a serious matter, which is why we wanted to meet as many stakeholders as possible - both indonesian and european - in the field, in order to formulate the best possible recommendations and to ensure that the agreement we want is the best possible and, above all, that it guarantees that the wood and wood products we will import into the european union meet - of course - sustainability criteria. this voluntary partnership agreement with indonesia is particularly important because the indonesian forest is a huge forest. it's one of the three largest forests in the world. it is obvious that this is a major challenge for the climate - as we know - for biodiversity and, of course, also from the point of view of the people who live in the forest or the forest. and then, it's an important agreement because we know the importance of the timber trade in indonesia, including to asia. it is therefore essential that the flegt licences to be granted can, in some way, give the right criteria on all indonesian exports and, in any case, provide a reference for timber trade. of course, once parliament has given its consent, if the vote so decides tomorrow, the commission will have to decide, on the basis of its assessment, whether the system for verifying the legality of wood is relevant, correct and meets the criteria of the european parliament. and we know that despite the efforts of the indonesian government, there are still shortcomings, and we wanted to point them out. these shortcomings are, of course, the lack of verification of a number of timber and timber products from forest conversion, whether for agriculture or for the production of palm oil. it is also known that the audit of the permitting process as carried out under the current verification system has many shortcomings. and then, finally, we know that the legality verification process does not distinguish between products that have been certified and products that are not certified in the whole chain. you can see that there are efforts; the indonesian authorities and all the actors in the sector in indonesia and civil society are clearly making efforts. but, again, since this will be the only occasion for the european parliament to express very strongly what it expects from the european commission, we wanted to do so here, and i would like to say that the european parliament's objective in this matter is really to ensure that the voluntary partnership agreement and the licences that will be granted meet the objectives of protecting the climate and protecting biodiversity, while ensuring, of course, the sustainable development of indonesia.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would first like to thank the honourable members of the european parliament for their support and for bringing their concerns regarding the implementation of the agreement and the situation on the ground in indonesia to the attention of the commission. i have to be clear about this, and many of you stated it very clearly too: indonesia is an extremely important country. so it was well worth making an effort and we were really happy at being able to reach an agreement. we know that indonesia has certain problems which are still there, and we know too that they are trying hard to address them. we are aware of that and i am fully aware too of the fact that implementation will be crucial. i would just like to add that indonesia will also apply the same system to exports to other markets such as china. the commission will, of course, be happy to report to parliament on progress in the implementation of the flegt agreement with indonesia and also on how the points which you raised in the resolution are being properly addressed. let me just say – because you specifically asked me about the forest strategy – that i would really need to look into the facts that you mentioned, as i can hardly comment without being properly briefed on that. what i can promise you is that you will get a proper answer; i am simply not sufficiently well prepared to answer you now on something which is connected in detail with the forest strategy. what i can say at this stage is that i know that there were limited possibilities, and whenever we discuss forests we are constantly and consistently reminded by the member states that this is a subsidiarity issue and we should take their positions into account. but as i said, i will look into the matter and provide you with an answer. if you would allow me to sum up, i think the message which i have received here from parliament is clear: together with our indonesian partners and together with eu member states which are supporting this initiative, the commission must chart an ambitious course to implement effectively and also build on this agreement. this will bring us closer to reaching our ultimate objective, which is without any doubt the sustainable management of indonesia’s forests and the well-being of those who depend on those forests.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, as you have understood, the aim of this resolution was not to add new legal conditions to the voluntary partnership agreement which has been adopted. there is an agreement, there are legal conditions binding the parties, and parliament's aim was not to add to them and create legal confusion. the aim of this parliament is, of course, as some of my colleagues have said, to ensure that the flegt licences that will be issued give european citizens - consumers and european authorities - the assurance that the timber is coming from sustainable and traceable systems, which have been certified and legalised under good conditions. that's the goal. you can imagine that if it were to be found at any time that the flegt licences issued did not correspond to the specifications, the whole flegt system would be called into question. this is why the european parliament's recommendations are so important. i would like to thank you, and i would like to stress this, for your commitment to come before the european parliament and tell us and report to us on the progress made on the indonesian side in the verification system to ensure that we are actually contributing, from the european parliament's point of view, as you, from the european commission's point of view, and as the indonesian authorities do, to the good development of this country, to the protection of the forest, to the protection of the climate, to the protection of biodiversity and of all the people who live in the forest or the forest.
mr president, my first words will be to ask you, commissioner, to convey our thanks to the high representative for the statement she has just made. venezuela is a powerful state, with a valuable people and a huge culture, which does not deserve the current situation. violent pro-government armed groups are operating with impunity. mrs. zuber, no one says the government is fomenting them, but they don't condemn them and they don't prosecute them! there are deaths, imprisonments, injuries, torture, rapes, but there is no fair and just trial. venezuela wants freedom, and its people are right. but there is no freedom without security. freedom without security is anarchy. and security without freedom is dictatorship. so in january 2013, the community of latin american and caribbean states (celac) and the european union decided to have a community of destiny. there are considerable stakes involved in negotiating a political association treaty with mercosur, of which venezuela is now a member. this week saw the eu-brazil summit. so, it is true, venezuela is a great state, and we have things to achieve with it, but we want stability to reign in this republic.
member of the commission. - mr[nbsp ]president, honourable members, to conclude, allow me to reiterate my main points. we condemn intolerance and the use of violence. we are worried about the continuing unrest in venezuela, saddened by the reported casualties and alarmed by the detention of students and political figures. it is incumbent on the public authorities to ensure that all citizens can exercise their right to freedom of expression, association and assembly. journalists and broadcasters must be allowed to exercise their profession freely. citizens and politicians must be able to express their views in the media. the concerns of the people of venezuela are legitimate and so is their right to demonstrate peacefully. the government and the opposition should pursue and sustain a comprehensive dialogue so as to put an end to violence.
member of the commission. - mr president, repeated heavy rainfall and unusually strong winds since last december have resulted in flooding in a number of member states. in particular ireland, the uk, france, and to a lesser degree some other countries, were all affected. moreover, very unusual snowfall and freezing rain has led to serious damage in the southern alps, and in slovenia in particular. in all these instances, the commission’s emergency response coordination centre (ercc) was closely monitoring the situation as it developed and immediately established contact with all the countries affected. the ercc kept an overview of developments and potential needs for assistance. it regularly shared information and provided situational updates to member state authorities through the eu common emergency communication and information system. at the request of the national authorities in, for instance, the uk and slovenia, the ercc also supplied satellite imaging of flood zones. in the event that a member state requests external assistance, the union civil protection mechanism is activated via the ercc. in such cases, pre-defined civil protection assets – so-called modules, composed of specialised equipment and teams – are available for deployment if necessary at short notice. following slovenia’s request for assistance, 11 member states offered assistance, mainly through the union civil protection mechanism but also bilaterally, providing the disaster-stricken country with more than 120 power generators. while no estimates of total damage are available at the moment, we do know that considerable destruction was caused in many places, in particular in coastal areas where high tides added to the damage, and in slovenia as a result of the freezing rain. the eu solidarity fund was established after the terrible floods in 2002 to provide financial assistance, and has since proven its usefulness by providing aid amounting to over eur 3.7 billion to member states to deal with the costs of emergency measures in the event of major disasters. the solidarity fund is, of course, in principle available to those countries now affected by storms, floods and ice too, if the conditions are met. activation of the fund relies first of all however on applications being submitted by member states if they consider that the fund should intervene. the commission cannot activate the fund on its own initiative, but stands ready to give any guidance and advice that may be required in preparing applications. if and when applications are submitted, the commission will assess them as quickly as possible and, if possible, request the council and parliament to mobilise the necessary financial resources.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the many incidents of bad weather which have been plaguing our continent for weeks, my first thoughts go to the victims of these tragedies and their families. some of our citizens have lost their lives, others have been seriously injured. many have lost everything. i would like to express our full solidarity with them on behalf of our assembly. in my country, brittany, the var and aquitaine have been particularly affected. the damage is estimated at several hundred million euros. i would like to commend the efforts of our colleague agnès lebrun, mayor of morlaix, who is fighting alongside her constituents to find solutions and repair the damage. despite the repetition and accumulation of these phenomena, states are losing sight of the risks. we continue to build homes in flood-prone areas, we neglect prevention, our infrastructure is outdated and our warning systems are too often inadequate. europe must not stand idly by; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment. our colleague rosa estaràs ferragut is currently discussing the reform of this fund. it is essential that the negotiations be concluded before the elections, so that aid is simplified and the release of funds is effective and simple. i am concerned, however, about the small budget allocated to the solidarity fund, which has been halved compared with the previous period. what are we going to say to those who ask for eu aid when the coffers are empty? we must act on several other fronts: the setting up of the european volunteer corps proposed by michel barnier; support for states which do not have a risk management strategy; the exchange of experience and information; the mobilisation of the structural funds to enable infrastructure, containment and protection against risks; the use of interreg funds, so that crossborder territories cooperate and coordinate their fire, rescue and ambulance services. the member states must now clarify their position. will they prefer aid and solidarity or, on the contrary, selfishness? parliament has made its choice.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i welcome this debate on behalf of my group because we know that the impact of natural disasters and climate change is now a matter of collective security on a global scale, and that our countries in europe are suffering the consequences in all sectors. in the outermost regions, which are small island territories, there is a concentration of impacts, and our territories are particularly vulnerable to all the consequences of climate change which, it should be remembered, are already under way. so we see an increase in extreme weather events, year after year, season after season, with hurricanes and storms becoming more and more violent. the european union has concluded a number of agreements with small island developing states, and there are also a number of programmes at the united nations. i ask the european union not to forget the outermost regions and the octs in implementing this partnership.
mr president, i would like to say to my colleagues in the epp: you seem to have noticed today that the budget for the solidarity fund has been cut in half for the next seven years. but remember, you approved the union's budget! it reminds me a little of mr cameron: europe is being robbed of its resources, but we do not hesitate to ask for its help. you seem suddenly concerned about climate change - and you're right! precautions are needed. but, again, we had to wake up before! we have no short memory: whether it is the climate package or the mandatory shift from the erdf or the eafrd to preventive measures, you have always refused our 'green' proposals. i hope that this flash of lucidity will continue in the negotiations on the solidarity fund. too often, when it comes to voting or negotiating behind closed doors in trilogues, the masks fall off. here we are talking about human and material damage. be consistent, be responsible! look to the long term and to the future. this is not a gift to be given today, on the eve of the european elections.
mr president, the 2002 regulation establishing the european union solidarity fund provides for financial aid to compensate for damage caused by natural disasters. the atlantic coastlines, but also some of the outermost regions, such as the island of reunion, have recently suffered from very severe weather with dramatic consequences for the populations. the damage to rail, road, electricity and telecommunications infrastructure, as well as flooded towns, is deplorable. these disasters also have a direct impact on most economic activities. flooding of agricultural land affects both livestock farmers and farmers in general. in france, 1,700 fishing vessels were docked for three months; the beaches have been polluted by oil pellets spilled by ships, which take advantage of bad weather to clean their tanks, with consequences for the environment and tourism. finally, the storm-damaged sea front needs stabilization work. it is undeniable that these regions have been affected by a major disaster with serious and lasting repercussions for the inhabitants and economic activities. that is why i ask you, mr commissioner, to ensure that the european union solidarity fund provides aid to the disaster areas.
in writing. i am pleased that the consequences of the severe weather which has hit europe in recent weeks have finally been put on the agenda of this parliamentary session. the urgency and scale of the damage make the intervention of the european union more than necessary in many regions of europe, especially in the french departments of var and alpes-maritimes where the state of natural disaster was declared in dozens of municipalities following the bad weather in january. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) can help but the request must come from the member states. i therefore urge france to request the eusf to deal with the matter as soon as possible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the private copying levy is not abolished. today the european parliament is expressing its position on this issue. for those of you who are not experts in this field, i would like to recall a few simple points. first, private copying is an exception to copyright, that is, it allows the copying of protected works without the author's permission, provided the work has been lawfully acquired and the copy is for private use only. in return for this right to copy, the user of the copy pays a royalty, that is, a contribution to the copyright. this contribution, or private copying fee, is paid when the raw media or the equipment necessary for making copies is purchased. i would like to emphasize that this is a royalty, a contribution to copyright, not a tax or a levy. the english term 'levies' is ambiguous as to the nature of this charge, and i would ask the translation services to exercise the utmost care. what is the difference between a royalty and a tax? a tax is levied by the state and goes into the state's revenue. his assignment is untraceable. the fee is instead levied by the persons entitled to it, in particular by collective management organisations; it is directly used and redistributed for the remuneration of copyright and for the financing of actions in favour of cultural creation and dissemination. i propose in my report that at least 25% of this income should be allocated to supporting creativity. that is why i say that it is a virtuous system, but one that can be improved. in this connection, i have heard and taken into account the main criticisms of the private copying levy system. the first criticism concerns the risk of 'forum shopping' since almost all member states (23 out of 28) apply this levy, but not at the same rate. i therefore ask the european commission to start thinking about harmonising the definition of the private copying levy (what is it? what does it compensate for?), the scope (what material can be subject to the levy?) and the way in which the rates are calculated. the creation of joint committees (groups of rightholders, manufacturers and consumers) could be a good practice to develop. the second criticism concerns transparency. the requirement of transparency of amounts collected and redistributed should be improved with the introduction of the directive on collective management, which we voted for. transparency can also be improved with regard to institutions and events that benefit from a share of the revenue from private copying. and i ask that this information be made public. secondly, the consumer who has paid the fee must be informed and know the amount of the spc. i am also proposing measures to this end. finally, exemptions for professionals must be effective through the development of exemption agreements and simple, efficient and effective reimbursement systems. commissioner, i have heard a lot of people say that the private copying fee system would be obsolete in a digital broadcasting environment. on the contrary, i believe that it has never been so easy and quick to make copies of protected works, and that the quality of the copies is virtually identical to that of the originals. the system must therefore be strengthened and adapted to the dissemination of works on the internet. we believe that streaming, for example, does not exclude private storage and copying, including on virtual media such as the cloud. i therefore ask the commission to start thinking about new copying practices in order to adapt the private copying fee system. commissioner, there is a consultation going on at the moment on the future of copyright. this report is the first contribution of the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the common european sales law. it is an optional instrument which could simplify the conclusion of distance contracts within the eu: contracting parties can decide to apply it or, on the contrary, to resort to national law.
in writing. i voted against this report. this right will apply in parallel to the 28 national schemes. this could lead to confusion for consumers and businesses, legal uncertainty and a lowering of the level of consumer protection. i support simplification and harmonisation, but this is still a false good idea on the part of the european commission. this 29th system will either be more favourable to consumers than national systems and therefore not used by any undertaking, or less protective than national systems, which amounts to dumping consumer law. this european contract is an optional instrument, but the option will ultimately be for large companies, which are once again left with too much discretion to the detriment of consumers.
in writing. this text establishes a common european sales law to overcome the difficulties in developing crossborder trade and distance selling linked to different legal regimes. this european right of sale then creates a second system in the legal order of each member state, without calling into question national law. the scheme is optional and applicable to distance contracts, including online contracts. it thus represents a major step forward in the completion of the internal market. i believe it is important to enable businesses, and in particular smes, to benefit from the greater protection provided by a common set of contractual rules for distance selling.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal which provides for the establishment of a common european sales law, thus harmonising the national contract laws of the member states. it is sensible to propose a system common to all member states since the common european sales law will then constitute a second contract law system identical in all member states. finally, the optional system introduced, which leaves the choice of whether or not to sell to the european common law, makes it possible to avoid all national susceptibilities and sovereignty.
in writing. - the commission's proposal for a common european sales law is a major innovation. the aim is to remove obstacles to the internal market arising from differences in contract law between member states. this initiative has been under discussion for many years and parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for it. the common european sales law is a key milestone, especially in the digital age, and can bring enormous benefits to consumers and businesses in the internal market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the common european law on sales which could apply to distance contracts between member states if the contracting parties choose to do so in relation to national law. the aim of these provisions for the standardisation of contract law is to reduce transaction costs for traders, particularly smes.
in writing. the creation of a common european sales law is intended to facilitate the commercial activities of european companies in other eu member states. the proposal consists of a set of rules which coexist with national legislation and which can be 'chosen' by the parties as the legal basis for the contract. this will give operators a choice as to the level of consumer protection, which will inevitably lead to a lower level of protection. in addition, this provision will be a source of confusion for consumers and businesses who will have to deal with the different contract law regimes (national and european). i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against the proposal for a regulation on the common european sales law, which i strongly reject. i am convinced that optional arrangements are not a good thing for consumer contracts, even if they are limited to crossborder distance contracts. we should have continued on the legislative path, maintained the reference to rome i, and at least waited for the beneficial effects of the consumer rights directive, which has just come into force. i have been saying for months that this proposal would not be beneficial for consumers or businesses, and would lead to confusion, legal uncertainty and complexity, which is the opposite of what we need. of course, a priori it may seem that an optional diet cannot do any harm. on the contrary, it first confuses the situation rather than clarifying it. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a new provision on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the consumer protection rules. finally, there is the disadvantage of leaving it to the professional to decide which provisions will apply.
in writing. i voted against this report on the proposal for a regulation on a european sales right. the proposal aims to create a set of rules that would coexist with the national legislation of each member state, with particular reference to e-business. the aim is to establish an optional legal system for contracts between consumers and traders, mainly distance contracts. i cannot support such measures which would have the direct effect of weakening consumer protection. here again, the classic liberal ideology is expressed, considering that there is equality between the two parties to the contract! in addition, the most consumer-friendly measures (and we already know the almost all-powerful nature of the large online trading companies) will be undermined by these new rules. once again, we're aiming for the bottom level.
in writing. i voted for this text because it restores the truth about tobacco products: manufacturers will no longer be able to put any chemical in cigarettes, marketing will be better regulated and health warnings will cover 2/3 of cigarette packs. the aim is clear: to dispel the smoke cloud of the tobacco industry, which is trying by all means to promote these products, which cause the death of about 700 000 european citizens every year. we want to protect young people from the totally false appeal of tobacco while respecting the freedom of voluntary smokers. as far as electronic cigarettes are concerned, there will finally be a beginning of a european regulatory framework. the nicotine concentration will no longer be allowed to exceed 20 mg/ml. electronic cigarettes must remain a tool in the fight against smoking and by no means a fashion phenomenon for young people looking for new experiences! having experienced the toxic effects of tobacco myself, i am happy with the outcome of this vote. however, i know that measures to inform and tax our european neighbours, where tobacco is taxed less than in france, will also be needed.
in writing. i voted for the report on the tobacco directive to discourage young people from smoking, because most smokers start before they are 18. 65% of the surface of the package will therefore have to be devoted to visual warnings, flavourings will be banned, menthol will be banned by 2020. why would you do that? to stem the alarming number of approximately 700,000 tobacco-related deaths each year. we also regulated a product that was just coming out: the electronic cigarette. there will be two possibilities: either they will be regulated as medicines if they help people to stop smoking. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to nicotine. it's a good compromise. for some, this is a real way to get rid of tobacco. for others, they will only smoke the electronic cigarette because of fashion, in short, without rational explanation. but be careful, we don't know everything about this product and its effects yet. as we have resisted the tobacco lobby, we will also have to resist the e-cigarette lobby.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which provides for better prevention of the dangers of tobacco. however, i voted against article 18 and i regret very much that the aspirations of the vapers have not been taken into account. this is a huge mistake by the european parliament.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to amend the current legislation on tobacco products in europe to adapt it to the latest market developments and the emergence of new products. it is certainly disappointing that the european union has not taken a position on the question of e-cigarettes. however, i felt it necessary to support such a text when smoking is the number one cause of premature death in europe, killing nearly 700 000 people a year. it is our duty as members of the european parliament to combat the introduction of smoking by adopting measures which are a real deterrent for young people. it is absolutely essential to reduce the incentives to consume by ensuring that tobacco products do not appear to be attractive products. this is why it was necessary to regulate tobacco packaging in particular.
in writing. tobacco kills 700 000 people in europe every year. yet it is the most easily preventable cause of death. in the face of this, europe must take further action and make tobacco control a public health priority. the main objectives of the new european legislation are to prevent and raise awareness among consumers, especially young people. the eu's tobacco sector is growing rapidly, with more than 94% of current smokers having started smoking before the age of 25. the eu must therefore do everything possible to prevent young people from being lured into this alienating and dangerous practice in the future. measures to reduce the attractiveness of tobacco and to ban products specifically targeted at young people or women, such as fine or flavoured cigarettes, are part of this. by accompanying these measures with clear and strict information requirements for all tobacco products, the eu is empowering consumers to make informed decisions. the e-cigarette will also have to meet these requirements and european standards of quality and safety, while remaining accessible to consumers who want to quit smoking.
in writing. i supported this report, the negotiation of which was made difficult by the very strong pressure exerted by various lobbies and interest groups. the rapporteur has been able to defend a clear and transparent line which is in favour of greater protection of public health. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. finally, it was essential to regulate the marketing of electronic cigarettes, whose rapid development on a global scale made it impossible to trace the origin of the products or to define their exact components, much less their impact on health. thus, e-cigarettes to be marketed will have to comply with the legislation in force on tobacco products or medicines; the commission has already proposed that the level of nicotine in tobacco be reduced to a certain level.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted the tobacco directive. the adoption process was widely reported in the media, with some meps accused of working for the tobacco industry. political decision-making is never easy. no one is opposed to the public health objective and no one disputes the harmfulness of tobacco. i'm the first one to fight it. but i also bear in mind that behind the production, distribution and sale of tobacco there is a whole network of actors, french companies, farmers whose immediate future depends on this political decision. these actors are not the tobacco industry. that is why i am not in favour of a radical decision which risks putting thousands of people out of work, and this in the midst of an economic crisis, of breaking up an entire sector with all the consequences for a region, a territory. the most effective weapon, as germany has shown, is prevention. in the absence of prevention policies, the colour or size of the package will have a limited impact on consumer choice. and often, the ban creates interest and attraction. let's enlighten the consumer, but let's let him make his own choices.
in writing. - the european parliament voted in favour of the draft law updating the european tobacco directive, with the aim of making smoking less attractive to young people. under the new rules, the photo with the health warnings will have to cover 65 percent of the package. as requested, the electronic cigarette market will also be regulated: the latter will be treated as medicinal products if sold as smoking cessation products or as tobacco products if sold as other products. i think the new measures are still a great step forward in tobacco control, although i think that in some respects more could have been achieved.
in writing. i voted in favour of validating the agreement reached between parliament's negotiating team and the member states on the modernisation of the so-called tobacco directive. it is a balanced agreement which makes it possible to intensify the fight against the attractiveness of tobacco products, especially for young people. to do this, parliament voted for provisions requiring manufacturers to put health messages covering 65% of the package on cigarette packs. in addition, in the same spirit of reducing the attractiveness of tobacco, we have introduced a ban on flavourings in cigarettes (with a special moratorium on menthol) and on packaging that can be presented in attractive shapes.
in writing. i voted for the compromise text because it represents an improvement on the previous text. i am convinced, however, that we have missed a good opportunity to pursue a real public health policy in the fight against tobacco. the tobacco directive is an unambitious directive, the legal basis of which did not allow for a real tobacco control policy. lobbying on this directive allows tobacco companies to continue business as usual, when we needed to go beyond this compromise. as regards the electronic cigarette, which is a tool for reducing tobacco consumption and perhaps a substitute for it, we are opening a phase of legal uncertainty in each of the states, which will be counterproductive to its development. the product requires clear control of the devices placed on the market, free sale of the authorized products and the widest possible access. the public authorities must also launch independent studies on the health of users.
in writing. i voted in favour of the revision of the so-called 'tobacco' directive, the main aim of which is to make tobacco products less attractive to young people in particular. health warnings will cover 65[nbsp]% of the surface of packages instead of the current 40[nbsp]%. packages will have to contain at least 20 cigarettes and flavoured cigarettes will be banned from 2016, with an additional 4 years for menthol cigarettes.
in writing. the tobacco products directive is a revision of the 2001 directive to update it in line with new market developments and scientific discoveries. the proposed measures reduce the toxicity of cigarettes by removing certain highly carcinogenic products and provide for mandatory declaration of ingredients. the emphasis is on prevention: the prohibition of terms such as 'soft' or 'light', which may mislead smokers into thinking that one product is less harmful than others; a minimum size for health warnings on all tobacco products; a common set of warning images which member states may choose to affix to packaging. beyond prevention and to go further, we could have considered reimbursing the effective weaning products, which is a pity. nevertheless, this directive is a step in the right direction. i vote for it.
in writing. i particularly welcome this vote which sets up a necessary prevention for young europeans, in particular with the coverage of the packaging at 2/3 of the deterrent messages and the ban on stylised packaging in the form of lipstick. e-cigarettes will not be prevented from being sold by this legislation because we have made sure that the directive can be adapted to existing national legislation.
in writing. i am very pleased to have voted in favour of the directive on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and tobacco products. it is very important for the european parliament to ensure the protection of the health of its citizens. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the following products: the european parliament has proposed to make cigarettes less attractive by increasing the proportion of health warnings on cigarette packs. in addition, flavoured cigarettes will be progressively banned. i hope that these measures will prevent many young people from starting to smoke. we cannot allow the tobacco industry to profit from the innocence of some consumers in relation to the products they use.
in writing. the current tobacco directive came into force 12 years ago. it is true that measures to control smoking have reduced the percentage of smokers from 40 to 28 percent over the past ten years, and this is a welcome development. however, smoking remains the leading preventable cause of death in europe (700 000 deaths per year) and since 2005 youth smoking has risen again among boys in half of the member states and among girls in a third of them, which is worrying to say the least - 70% of smokers start smoking before the age of 18. it was therefore important to change the existing rules in order to reverse this trend. that is the aim of this new text, which i voted in favour of. among the new features, three are noteworthy: visual warnings will cover at least 65% of the surface of the packages (compared to the current 40% on the front of the packages and 30% on the back); ban on packs of less than 20 cigarettes (which were cheaper and therefore likely to be more accessible to young people); ban on flavourings, with a specific time limit for menthol (ban from 2020).
in writing. i welcome the agreement reached on the revision of the tobacco directive. i believe that the increase in the area allocated to health warnings will have a significant impact on the attractiveness of tobacco products and tobacco use in the eu, especially among young people. i also welcome the respect for the principle of subsidiarity in the regulation of electronic cigarettes: each member state will be able to decide its own legislation, in accordance with the choice of its own citizens. the decision cannot be taken by brussels, but it is up to the member states to define their own policy on this matter. in the end, although i regret the retreat initiated by the court of justice in relation to crossborder sales, the solution found seems to me to be balanced and effective, which is why i voted in favour of it in the plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the compromise reached by the socialist linda mcavan on the tobacco directive. 700 000 people die every year in europe from tobacco. the main challenge, therefore, is to discourage young people from starting, because of the addiction. in fact, 70% of smokers start before the age of 18 and 94% before the age of 25. the main issue in this report was to regulate the sale of electronic cigarettes. the choice is left to the states whether to consider them as medicines or tobacco products, thus allowing france, for example, to maintain existing points of sale without forcing consumers to go to the pharmacy. electronic cigarettes sold as tobacco products will have to comply with nicotine concentration and refill size limits, which will above all protect the health of european citizens. the compromise also includes the addition of health warnings on packages, the banning of flavoured cigarettes by 2020, attractive packaging and misleading labels such as 'light'.
in writing. smoking currently kills nearly six million people a year worldwide, including 700,000 in europe, and this figure could reach eight million by 2030. i welcome this vote, which for the first time confirms concrete actions in favour of a better prevention policy for young people. the road to this ambitious vote has been long, as some of the opposing lobbies have been powerful, but it is public health that is now protected. among the progress achieved, i would particularly like to highlight the addition of a health warning (text and image) covering 65%[nbsp ] of the front and back of cigarette and rolling tobacco packages, the ban on flavoured cigarettes from 2016 (with a menthol transition period until 2020), the ban on lipstick or perfume packaging, the ban on the use of terms such as 'light' and the framing of e-cigarettes, which can be considered either as a medicinal product or as a tobacco product in order to preserve existing national regulations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report calling for greater involvement of the european union in the fight against prostitution. prostitution is the latest form of violence where the victim is still considered the culprit in some countries. for this reason, i am in favour of prosecuting those who buy sexual acts rather than those who sell them. the resolution we have just voted on goes in that direction.
in writing. in the same vein as the socialist resolutions which are only used to argue in the european parliament, i present the honeyball resolution on prostitution. the parliamentarians were divided on the question of whether or not to penalize customers. the nordic model of banning prostitution has been promoted by some, rejected by others and why? it is not, because it is only a resolution and it is the states that decide. in short, it is a waste of time and energy, since everyone is resigned to defending his system, his model, believing that he is right. i therefore defended the french position, which is above all trying to protect prostitutes as much as possible and to fight organized crime.
in writing. i voted against the honeyball resolution which seeks to penalize customers. sex workers want rights, to be protected by the law, not a hypocritical penalty that forces them to hide more and more and live in working conditions that are dangerous to their health and safety.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on this text on sexual exploitation and prostitution. the european union must certainly continue to fight against the terrible phenomena of prostitution, such as human trafficking, child prostitution and violence against women. however, it is not for the commission to impose on the member states a legislative model for dealing with the problem of prostitution. each member state must be sovereign in putting in place the legislation it deems appropriate. prostitution is a complex issue for which there is no right or wrong solution applicable to all member states. i did not, however, wish to block the adoption of such a text which rightly emphasizes the devastating consequences of prostitution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text despite the fact that it defends the so-called 'nordic model', a model based on the penalisation of the customer, which i do not particularly support. the report denounces prostitution and the harm it causes to all those who are forced or forced to suffer what can be considered a form of violence. we also placed a strong emphasis on the need to combat human trafficking and smuggling, which is often orchestrated by cross-border organised crime.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has adopted this text which advocates a necessary abolitionist approach to prostitution.
in writing. i agree that a solution must be found to the problem of prostitution, which puts many women at risk every day. to protect these women from the mafia networks, we must take all necessary measures. however, i do not support the idea of imposing the nordic model or any other model on all member states. obviously, prostitution, trafficking in women and gender inequality must be tackled. however, we must fully respect the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the honeyball report on sexual exploitation and prostitution, which has been the subject of a lively debate in the european parliament. this report, which has no legal value but a strong political value, has made it possible to underline that a majority in the european parliament, of which i am a member, supports an abolitionist approach to prostitution. prostitution is a form of violence, exploitation of inequalities and a violation of human dignity, and 95% of those involved do not choose to engage in it. it is demonstrated that it does not reduce sexual violence in any way, it is necessary to end a demand that justifies the offer. the model of regulating prostitution has shown its limits as it perpetuates and fuels the development of human trafficking. an approach to decriminalizing prostitutes, highlighting customer responsibility and developing concrete alternatives to help prostituted persons exit the system should be given priority.
in writing. i could not vote for this own-initiative report by mary honeyball, a british labour party member on prostitution. this report catalogues the practices and legislation of the member states, which are to the detriment of some and the disadvantage of others, without demonstrating the validity of these claims, which go so far as to equate the legalization of prostitution with that of pimping. the report's bias is to see the swedish model as the panacea. neither an abolitionist nor a legalist, i do not believe that the penalisation of the client is the only solution and even fear that it increases the vulnerability of people who prostitute themselves, sending them back into hiding. the fight against prostitution networks and the reintegration of those who wish to do so must be given priority, but this requires resources which are hardly on the agenda. it is by tackling the worsening social misery that we will prevent the majority of women, but also men and especially young men, from falling prey to trafficking networks. the report has therefore not allowed an objective view to be developed on a painful subject which raises many questions in the light of the model of society in which we want to live.
in writing. another report that undermines the credibility of our parliament! what image do we give, in the midst of a crisis of confidence, in the midst of economic and social difficulties, when we take over part of our agenda with a report on guidelines for prostitution and its consequences for gender equality? i am aware that with prostitution there is a whole range of violence, humiliation and trafficking of all kinds that are brought to our attention, but national legislation is much more relevant than action by the union! i repeat once again: in matters of society, which are matters of morality, of intimacy, of the private sphere, let us leave the principle of subsidiarity in play. is it up to parliament to decide whether to penalize the customer or the service? on tolerance, regulation or prohibition? i'm sure you don't, and i'm sure i'm not the only one who thinks that.
in writing. the eu's single market offers many opportunities to the 500[nbsp ] million european citizens and the many businesses that are based in the union. unfortunately, citizens and businesses alike are not always aware of their rights. solvit has therefore been set up to provide them with rapid solutions in the event of problems. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to reform the system to make it more efficient, to the benefit of european citizens and businesses.
in writing. i voted in favour of the solvit report. solvit is an informal online help service for european citizens and businesses in the european union when their rights are being violated by the public administration of another member state, in the event that no legal action has yet been taken. several objectives are mentioned: to improve the system considerably, particularly with regard to disputes involving companies and response times; better take into account cross-border labour law, social rights and equal treatment issues (e.g. pensions); promote solvit and raise public awareness of its usefulness.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to ensure that citizens and businesses are better informed about their rights in the context of the functioning of the internal market. it also provides them with the tools they need to prevent crossborder litigation. we can also be satisfied with the modernisation of the 'your europe' portal. it is a step towards making community legislation, which is often considered too distant from the citizen, more accessible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it recognises the full usefulness and value of the solvit system for the european single market. solvit is a tool of major importance for the union, which enables citizens and businesses to resolve disputes at european level amicably, by bringing together national authorities. the text does, however, recognise that the system needs to be improved, in particular by focusing more on the problems faced by businesses in their crossborder activities. the lack of awareness of the mechanism among citizens is also, of course, a major obstacle to its development. i welcome, however, that this report advocates the establishment of measurable criteria which will allow a better assessment of the evolution of solvit, and thus of whether any legislative measures need to be adopted to replace the informal procedure which is now at the heart of the mechanism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on improving the online help service for european citizens and businesses who would have their rights infringed by the public administration of another member state in many areas, such as the recognition of professional qualifications, visas and residence rights, trade and services. the system, which should provide a response within 10 weeks if no legal action has yet been brought, could nevertheless be improved.
in writing. the solvit network intervenes in any crossborder problem between a company or a citizen, on the one hand, and a national public authority, on the other, concerning the incorrect application of community law relating to the internal market. solvit is therefore an instrument for enforcing the neoliberal rules of the european internal market, which i condemn. citizens and businesses are invited to submit online complaints on a portal falsely entitled 'europe is yours' to challenge states that lack zeal in enforcing the liberal rules imposed by the eu. the report welcomes the application of the 'principle of zero tolerance in the event of non-compliance with the services directive'. a whole program! this shows that if the same system existed for social and individual rights, europe could be a shield for the people. another choice is made. we will not be afraid to break the treaties to allow a rebuilding of europe. i am voting against this instrument which thinks it can stop me.
in writing. solvit is a service provided by the national administration of each eu country to help citizens or businesses in one country when their rights are not respected in another eu member state. it currently handles nearly 1 300 cases each year and manages to find solutions for about 90[nbsp ]% of citizens or businesses within 70 days. i support the recommendations in this report which are aimed at further improving the efficiency of this system and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the melo report on the european investigation order, which contains some good proposals.
in writing. this text introduces a new european instrument, the 'european investigation order', which then establishes a comprehensive system for obtaining evidence in cases with a cross-border dimension. by voting for this text, the european parliament is helping to strengthen cooperation between member states in criminal matters through exchanges of good practice. a strong signal is then sent. the establishment of an area of free movement is inseparable from the strengthening of security in that territory. however, it seemed important to me to establish that the issuing of the european investigation decision must be necessary and proportionate. in addition, particular importance should be attached to the protection of personal data in cross-border investigations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive which obliges member states to enforce any european investigation decision on the basis of the principle of mutual recognition. at a time when crossborder crime is becoming a major problem, i can only encourage all the european union's efforts in this area. i also welcome the intention to add a chapter on respect for fundamental rights, which reflects the european union's commitment to ensuring fair trials.
in writing. i defended the new instrument of judicial cooperation in criminal matters in europe, the european investigation order, as it should improve the functioning of justice, especially in cross-border crime cases, while ensuring full respect for fundamental rights. the european investigation order will go a step further in criminal judicial cooperation by ensuring that judicial authorities in one country can more easily request the opening of an investigation in another eu country and thus obtain evidence more quickly, with fewer administrative formalities, through the introduction of a single standard form. drawing on the experience of several years of the european arrest warrant, we have defended the introduction of a particularly novel ground for refusal in a mutual recognition instrument in criminal law, despite the council's strong resistance: these are cases where the judicial authorities of the member states consider that this investigative decision is incompatible with their fundamental rights obligations. we need a law that allows us to act with the necessary diligence to prosecute those who have committed crimes across the border.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a directive to replace the current mutual legal assistance conventions, which are too complex and too limited to guarantee the effectiveness of investigations involving several member states. investigations will now be recognised in all eu member states to facilitate cooperation between police and judicial authorities. the judicial authority of one member state may order one or more specific investigative measures to be carried out in order to collect evidence in another member state, for example to collect witness testimony or dna samples. we have also introduced a time limit for the enforcement of decisions to ensure that the investigation is not delayed by excessive administrative complexity. i voted in favour of this text because it will help to ensure the effectiveness of the police and the judiciary in the member states, so as to better combat organised crime.
in writing. in order to create an area of freedom, security and justice, we need to strengthen cooperation between law enforcement authorities in the member states. the european investigation order is in line with this. it will allow evidence to be gathered in cross-border investigations to strengthen our fight against criminal networks, while ensuring full respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. this is a further violation of the fundamental principles of the separation of powers and the roots of democracy. the aim of this directive is to establish a procedure whereby judicial authorities ask their counterparts in other member states to conduct criminal investigations in their own country. this 'european investigation decision' would replace the existing legal framework for the collection and transfer of data between member states and would apply to almost all types of evidence. this directive introduces a wider scope than the european mandate, and also covers evidence that does not yet exist (e.g. a statement by a witness) or is not directly available (e.g. analysis of a dna sample). the number of grounds for refusal is very limited. based on treaties not democratically agreed by the people, this procedure undermines the independence of the judiciary by subjecting it to constraints outside the legal hierarchy on which its legitimacy is based in each country. i vote against it.
in writing. i supported this new instrument for judicial cooperation in criminal matters in europe. it will improve the functioning of justice in crossborder crime cases, while ensuring respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which simplifies the conditions for obtaining short-stay visas to the european union. this simplification is not without conditions. the beneficiary states had to meet strict security and control requirements. in addition, emergency mechanisms have been provided to temporarily suspend such a facility in the event of a massive influx of third-country nationals or non-compliance by those countries with the conditions of use.
in writing. we have just introduced in june 2013 a mechanism allowing the european commission to suspend the visa exemption in case of a substantial and sudden increase in asylum applications, persons in an irregular situation or rejections of readmission applications. an effective and dissuasive suspension mechanism is essential to prevent and address abuse. however, this mechanism has never been activated. we cannot therefore support further visa waivers and further opening of our borders until this suspension mechanism has proved its worth.
in writing. i voted against this report to exempt moldova from the visa requirement to enter the territory of the european union, because it sends the wrong signal at a time when citizens expect the union to strengthen its migration policy. despite moldova's progress in strengthening its institutions and its strong links with the eu, visa liberalisation with moldova is contrary to my vision of a well-chosen immigration policy and reform of the schengen system. the recent swiss referendum shows that the eu must take back control of immigration and no longer make the principle of free movement the alpha and omega of its migration policy.
in writing. the european parliament has given the green light to the visa exemption with moldova. it is regrettable that once again parliament is extending the list of visa-free countries without taking into account the fears of citizens, many of whom are still suffering the effects of the crisis. moldova signed an association agreement with the european union in november 2013 and has made a lot of efforts to move closer to european standards. but does economic cooperation mean that borders are automatically opened? without blaming the moldovan population, we must be able to assess the visa policy of the european union as it has been for several years with realism. the benevolent, even naive, approach of the union to visa policy is not a sound political approach when it leads to a deregulation of the system. the latest analysis reveals that the visa exemption for the balkan countries has led to significant increases of up to 100[nbsp ]% increase in asylum applications in france. european migration policy is at a standstill. it's time to evolve it.
in writing. i voted against the extension of visa exemptions to certain new countries. recent experience with visa exemptions granted to countries close to the union has shown that they are accompanied by a significant increase in the number of cases of fraud and improper installation in the host country. this also raises security issues, particularly in the fight against certain trafficking.
in writing. we have just introduced in june 2013 a mechanism allowing the european commission to suspend visa exemption in case of a substantial and sudden increase in asylum applications, persons in an irregular situation, or rejections of readmission applications. an effective and dissuasive suspension mechanism is essential to prevent and address abuse. however, this mechanism has never been activated. we cannot therefore support further visa waivers and further opening of our borders until this suspension mechanism has proved its worth.
in writing. the aim is to abolish the european visa requirement for moldovans. it is a counterpart to the establishment of free trade agreements. the signing of the eastern partnership last november was the culmination of these 'serious efforts'. in addition, the visa exemption will be limited to holders of a biometric passport. this big brother trend is disturbing. above all, it means extra costs for people who want to travel to a country with poverty wages. i cannot oppose a text which will represent a real step forward for the freedom of movement of moldovan citizens, but i do regret the neoliberal framework of our relations with our european neighbours. therefore, i abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, thus giving my support to the voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) between the european union and the republic of indonesia on trade in wood products. its purpose is to establish a legislative framework to ensure the traceability of wood products, to establish a verification procedure to certify that wood products exported to the eu market have been lawfully acquired, harvested, transported and exported and to ensure the sound management and sustainable exploitation of indonesian forests.
in writing. i voted in favour of the jadot report on the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of indonesia, as it supports the ratification of the voluntary partnership agreement.
in writing. this text improves the traceability of indonesian wood products and promotes sustainable management. it represents an important step in the fight against deforestation and forest degradation, which pose threats to biodiversity and sustainable development. i also think that this is a significant agreement for the health of the european economy and jobs, given that the union is the largest export market for indonesian wood products.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that it is necessary to ensure balanced trade relations with indonesia in the timber trade. i can only encourage indonesia's willingness to work with an independent auditor who will provide regular public reports on the effectiveness of the system; this is a good example of transparency.
in writing. i voted in favour of approving the eu-indonesia voluntary partnership agreement which will establish a legislative framework to ensure the traceability of timber, to put in place a verification procedure to certify that timber products exported to the eu market have been lawfully acquired, harvested, transported and exported and to ensure the sound management and lawful exploitation of indonesian forests.
in writing. in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance. the agreement before us is part of the flegt (forest law enforcement for governance and trade) framework, which i supported in january 2011. but this agreement only allows partial progress towards the necessary establishment of a mechanism for sanctions for all environmental crimes. it introduces minimum regulation in indonesian timber imports to the eu. the recommendation calls on the commission to present to parliament an evaluation of the indonesian wood certification system before any eu authorisation is granted to indonesian wood products. but the independence of decisions on the granting and verification of export authorizations should be guaranteed by public services, and assistance should be provided to combat illegal logging. the absence of such measures is particularly regrettable. for these reasons, i abstain.
in writing. the objective of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of indonesia is to establish a legislative framework to ensure the traceability of timber products, to establish a verification procedure to certify that timber products exported to the european union market have been lawfully acquired, harvested, transported and exported and to ensure the sound management and lawful exploitation of indonesian forests, and to enhance the effectiveness of the european action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade. i was strongly committed to fairer and more equitable trade and could only support this agreement. but i also share the recommendations we made in the resolution: the indonesian certification system, which is currently being revised, must now rise to the occasion and seize this new opportunity to gain credibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which simplifies the conditions for obtaining short-stay visas to the european union. this simplification is not without conditions. the beneficiary states had to meet strict security and control requirements. in addition, emergency mechanisms have been provided to temporarily suspend such a facility in the event of a massive influx of third-country nationals or non-compliance by those countries with the conditions of use.
in writing. i voted on this subject with the hope that europe, while guaranteeing free movement, which is a fundamental element of its spirit and power, will also be able to strengthen its border controls.
in writing. the european parliament voted to authorize croatia and cyprus to recognise, unilaterally and for a transitional period, certain documents issued by the other member states, which are part of the schengen area, as equivalent to national visas. it seems to me legitimate that, since the necessary checks on persons at the external borders have already been carried out in one of the member states of the european union, croatia and cyprus, which are not in schengen, should be exempted from this administrative burden and be able to carry out a simplified check.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the control of persons at the external borders which aims to establish a simplified regime based on the unilateral recognition by croatia and cyprus of certain documents equivalent to their national visas for the purpose of transit through their territory or intended stays on their territory not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. this rather technical decision proposes the recognition of certain visas and documents issued by member states by croatia and cyprus, which are not members of the schengen area. it will allow for a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders if these two states accept it. this is the usual procedure for new eu member states not yet in the schengen system. however, one problem remains: if cyprus decides to apply this decision, it will be obliged to recognise all documents issued to kosovo nationals, even if, like france, it does not recognise the independence of kosovo. in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which simplifies the conditions for obtaining short-stay visas to the european union. this simplification is not without conditions. the beneficiary states had to meet strict security and control requirements. in addition, emergency mechanisms have been provided to temporarily suspend such a facility in the event of a massive influx of third-country nationals or non-compliance by those countries with the conditions of use.
in writing. we have just introduced in june 2013 a mechanism allowing the european commission to suspend the visa exemption in case of a substantial and sudden increase in asylum applications, persons in an irregular situation or rejections of readmission applications. an effective and dissuasive suspension mechanism is essential to prevent and address abuse. however, this mechanism has never been activated. we cannot therefore support further visa waivers and further opening of our borders until this suspension mechanism has proved its worth.
in writing. has the european parliament fallen on its head? what does the european union hope to achieve by liberalizing visas for peru and colombia, the drug trafficking hotbeds? i was one of the minority of members who voted against the report extending the list of third countries exempt from the visa requirement for two reasons. on the one hand, the choice of countries exempted from the tax seems to me to be totally insane. while i see no opposition to enlargement to safe countries such as the small pacific islands and the united arab emirates, i do not understand the choices of colombia and peru or those who supported them. on the other hand, europe is going through a serious crisis of confidence. his political choices are misunderstood because the results are not always what they seem. the european visa policy has led to an explosion of asylum applications in france. that was not the goal. this policy shows its limits. it is high time to pause, to assess the european visa policy and to draw the necessary lessons. the policy of unbridled liberalisation at every turn is not the answer that european citizens are looking for.
in writing. unlike the majority in the european parliament, i voted against the extension of the visa waiver to a large number of third countries. we have just introduced, in june 2013, a mechanism allowing the european commission to suspend visa exemption in the event of a substantial and sudden increase in asylum applications, irregular persons, or rejections of readmission applications. an effective and dissuasive suspension mechanism is essential to prevent and address abuse. however, this mechanism has never been activated. we cannot therefore support further visa waivers and further opening of our borders until this suspension mechanism has proved its worth.
in writing. i voted against the extension of visa exemptions to certain new countries. recent experience with visa exemptions granted to countries close to the union has shown that they are accompanied by a significant increase in the number of cases of fraud and improper installation in the host country. this also raises security issues, particularly in the fight against certain trafficking.
in writing. we have just introduced in june 2013 a mechanism allowing the european commission to suspend visa exemption in case of a substantial and sudden increase in asylum applications, persons in an irregular situation, or rejections of readmission applications. an effective and dissuasive suspension mechanism is essential to prevent and address abuse. however, this mechanism has never been activated. we cannot therefore support further visa waivers and further opening of our borders until this suspension mechanism has proved its worth.
in writing. regulation (ec) no[nbsp ]539/2001{1) lays down the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states. the purpose of this proposal from the european commission is to update this regulation. the main purpose of this is to add a number of countries to the list of visa-free countries, including the following caribbean and pacific island states: dominica, grenada, kiribati, marshall islands, micronesia, nauru, palau, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines, solomon islands, samoa, east timor, tonga, trinidad and tobago, tuvalu and vanuatu. however, the report also supports the future inclusion of the uae in the positive list for its human rights efforts. this effort consists in setting up a working group on this subject... it's a bit short considering that this is a country that has the death penalty and where homosexuality is considered a crime. in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. several third countries, including small island states in the pacific and the caribbean, will now be exempt from visa requirements for short stays. as a representative of the overseas countries and territories in the european parliament and a pacific national, i am pleased that the european union is facilitating access to its territory for small island states, thus reflecting the trust and relations it has with these small states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which i also co-signed, because it is essential that the european union shows its full solidarity with the ukrainian people in their struggle for their european destiny. the text calls for the establishment of a commission of inquiry into the many human rights violations and calls for a democratic transition for the country.
in writing. i voted for the resolution in favour of ukraine in order to at least provide political support to this country which is going through a very serious crisis.
in writing. the european parliament could not remain silent in the face of the events of the past few days in ukraine. the resignation of viktor yanukovych following the violent repression of the protests resulted in the installation of a provisional government until the presidential elections of 25 may 2014. i have supported this joint resolution by the various political groups, in which the european parliament also expresses its condolences to the families of the 82 victims of the repression by the former ukrainian authorities. parliament called for the country's sovereignty to be preserved, its recognised borders to be guaranteed and for a donor conference to be organised to establish a long-term financial assistance programme to help ukraine improve its financial and social situation, in liaison with the commission, the eeas and the imf. the resolution also stresses the need to actively combat corruption at all levels of decision-making in ukraine.
in writing. the ukrainian people reached out to the european union but what did it do in return? this is a sobering observation, given that the latest developments in crimea raise fears of a worrisome deterioration of the situation. the eu is suffering from a lack of influence and inability to play its rightful role in the east of its territory. it is paying for its inability to conduct a foreign policy that is so embodied and united that its speech has become inaudible. the european union has long been disengaged from the field of diplomacy in eastern europe, but now it is seeing the first results. the eu heads of state and government will have to do a lot to restore this diplomacy of influence. in this hot climate, it can no longer afford to grope and formulate declarations of intent. the ukrainians and the international community expect europe to speak firmly and clearly, to act forcefully and to engage in a necessary dialogue with russia. the eu has just realised that by neglecting its eastern part and failing to build a dialogue on an equal footing with its great russian neighbour, it has revealed the weakness of its own construction.
in writing. the european parliament spoke with a strong and united voice in adopting this resolution supporting the ukrainian people in their struggle for the establishment of a democratic political system and for closer ties with europe and its values. we welcome the developments in the situation, but we must remain vigilant. i wanted to renew my support for the new ukrainian government in the face of the difficulties facing the country, namely the struggle to maintain its integrity and the implementation of emergency measures to support the economy. we have called on donors, both european and non-european, to help the state avoid a threatened bankruptcy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in ukraine, which pays tribute first and foremost to those who are fighting and losing their lives for european values. parliament strongly condemned the brutal and disproportionate actions of the riot police which had led to a dramatic escalation of violence. the european commission should also work with the ukrainian authorities to find ways of compensating for the effects of the retaliatory measures adopted by russia.
in writing. this text is unbalanced and does not reflect what is happening in the country at the moment. the protest movement is idyllically presented as "citizen and popular". this overlooks its disparate character and in particular the fact that it includes an ultra-nationalist and anti-semitic part. the role of far-right organisations is dismissed as "all extremism". moreover, this resolution is evidence of a policy of political interference on the part of the eu. the text gives russia a lesson by denouncing its economic pressures on ukraine but says nothing about the concomitant us manoeuvres. once again we are in the midst of a wave of indignation and the alignment of europe with washington's policy. the text also calls on the imf and world bank to come to ukraine's rescue. this recitation of the atlantean mantras has no real meaning or significance. fortunately, 'european diplomacy' is only a waste of money and bureaucracy, alongside that of the usa and its services. i vote against it.
in writing. while european citizens have never been more sceptical of the eu - as the latest eurobarometer data show - ukrainians have been fighting for months, risking their lives, to defend their country's ties with the eu - which president viktor yanukovych has preferred to those with his russian partner. in the face of the ukrainian crisis, europe must be united, strong and powerful, which has apparently been lacking until now. the current situation shows that our diplomacy cannot continue to operate in a dispersed manner if we want to have a say on the international scene. i welcome the adoption of this resolution on the situation in ukraine, of which i am one of the co-signatories. we call for the eu to continue to provide financial support to ukraine, for dialogue to be established between the country's different political forces, for the territorial integrity of the country to be maintained, and for the eu to help ukraine fight corruption... i fully support these ideas. nevertheless, this declaratory text, which is not binding, has a relatively small scope, which i regret, but it has the merit of existing and constitutes at least a political signal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on iraq, which is still suffering from the effects of terrorism and is experiencing significant regional and religious instability. yet, this country is not the focus of the media. this media fatigue must not exist in politics, so we must continue to support stability in iraq and therefore in the region.
in writing. this resolution gives an account of the dramatic situation in iraq. the european union therefore condemns acts of violence and terrorism, in particular against the civilian population. i particularly support the call on the iraqi government to better protect the most vulnerable populations such as women, but also religious minorities such as christians. moreover, this resolution rightly highlights the successes of the eujust-lex mission in iraq, whose termination i had already deplored in a parliamentary question.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution which strongly condemns the recent acts of terrorism in iraq and the escalation of sectarian violence which raises fears of a wider interfaith conflict in the region. the resolution calls on the european external action service and the commission to do all they can to support the efforts of the iraqi government and the un assistance mission in iraq to protect the civilian population in fallujah and elsewhere.
in writing. the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement should be categorically rejected: it should be used to end the violence, to help economic and social development, to promote effective progress on human rights, rather than to promote the expansion of european oil companies in the country. but above all, it shamefully ignores the main reasons for the state iraq is in today, and the identity of those responsible: the usa, the uk, and the rest of the coalition, in which, let us remember, france did not participate at that time! i vote against it!
in writing. despite the announcement of elections in the spring, the democratic stabilisation of iraq is still far from complete. the syrian conflict, the still unsuccessful attempts to pacify the al-anbar region, the attacks on minorities, especially the christian minority, are all signs that we must not ignore. i voted in favour of this resolution because it mentions both the challenges and the achievements of iraq, which are both encouraging. but i remain concerned about the situation on the ground, which is very unstable. the elections, which should be observed by the eu, will probably mark a new stage on the path to democracy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on drones in order to define a context for the use of this tool at european level.
in writing. this resolution calls for better regulation of the use of armed drones. the use of these devices outside the international legal framework is indeed a cause for concern. it is therefore important that the european union should adopt a common position on this matter. i also think it is legitimate to consider the possibility of providing for a check on the legality of drone strikes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on armed drones which calls on the european union to develop an appropriate european and global response that safeguards human rights and international humanitarian law. the text also calls on the european council to adopt a common eu position on the use of armed drones.
in writing. the use of armed drones is unacceptable. philosophically, the armed drone violates the first and most fundamental law of war: "in the context of war, it is legitimate for me to try to kill you without being considered a murderer because you are given the same right over me". from an efficiency standpoint, i favor human intelligence. this resolution opposes the use of armed drones and is within the only international legal framework: the un. i vote for it.
in writing. i rejected this report which contains a great many statements of fact concerning fundamental rights. it is important to denounce the lack of respect for fundamental rights however, paragraph 31 was voted and adopted when it goes beyond the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore rejected the report on the basis of that paragraph.
in writing. i voted against this text on fundamental rights in the european union because its recommendations go far beyond the competences of the european union. by addressing many social issues such as euthanasia, marriage and adoption without discrimination based on sexual orientation or sexual and reproductive health and rights, this report undermines the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. the european union is built around shared democratic values and affirmed fundamental rights. however, there are still too many situations in some member states where rights and freedoms are still not properly guaranteed. these include, for example, those of minorities, women, workers, the protection of privacy, the independence of the media and the judiciary. europeans must be more intransigent in respecting fundamental rights and it is essential that the union maintains a very high level of respect for rights for its citizens, but also for its image in the rest of the world. that is why the creation of a european supreme court, which would protect the values enshrined in the european charter of human rights, would be an important step in the construction of europe by protecting what we hold most precious in europe, our values.
in writing. every year we lend ourselves to this crucial exercise of assessing the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. but here again, and i regret it, we are being offered an ideological report which i cannot support in any way! the report calls for the setting up of a "copenhagen commission", a nebulous structure, which would be added to existing structures. we already have impartial monitoring by the commission, the european court of justice and the european court of human rights. that is why we have tabled our own alternative resolution. we still have a lot to do for fundamental rights in europe, for example for people with disabilities, for gender equality, against racism and against all forms of discrimination. we must focus on improving the fundamental rights of all european citizens rather than deflecting the debate.
in writing. this report is a catalogue of good intentions, listing concerns and criticisms about: dignity, citizenship, equality, freedom, solidarity, justice. despite its somewhat minimalist view of fundamental rights, the european right is already too far gone to propose an alternative resolution. that is why i support this text, especially since it advocates the separation of church and state - a secular revolution in europe. i vote for it.
in writing. this report calls for the creation of the copenhagen criteria, which are a set of conditions for the accession of candidate countries to the european union, in order to ensure the full respect, protection and promotion of fundamental rights in the eu. the report highlights the negative effects of the economic and financial crisis on the guarantee of fundamental rights and amendments have allowed for the inclusion of important concerns such as the stigmatisation of certain social groups (roma, migrants, asylum seekers, etc.). that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. this parliament report provides an important analysis of the human rights situation in third countries. i regret, however, the willingness of the conservatives and the epp in particular to remove all references to sexual rights and health or to the nsa surveillance programme.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european arrest warrant. unfortunately, i have too many examples of the misuse of the ema, particularly in the context of binational divorces. several french parents were sued by an mae for alleged non-payment of alimony. instead of going through existing civil proceedings, some states, such as germany, use the mae and thus criminalise small-time affairs. the dea was created to fight major crime, not divorced parents!
in writing. by voting for this text, the european parliament asks the european commission to take action to reform the functioning of the european arrest warrant and other mutual recognition instruments. while the european arrest warrant is an effective instrument to facilitate the bringing of suspects and accused persons to justice, imperfections in the functioning of the system remain. the european union is an area of freedom, security and justice. it is therefore appropriate to stress that member states should ensure the proper application of union law on procedural rights in criminal proceedings relating to the use of the european arrest warrant. however, clarification of this legislation, such as a better definition of the crimes for which the european arrest warrant should be used, is needed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the european arrest warrant. today, crime is transnational, and with cybercrime, it is increasingly common for a crime to have multiple points of connection in different countries. the european arrest warrant is an effective response to this problem. in addition, this text makes it possible to speed up and facilitate the bringing to justice of suspects and accused persons by modernising the current procedure, which i welcome.
in writing. since 2004, judicial authorities in the member states of the european union can issue a european arrest warrant to arrest suspects throughout the union. this improved cooperation between member states has considerably reduced the time taken for extraditing suspects to the countries where they are to be tried. nevertheless, the european parliament has asked the commission to make proposals to improve the respect for the rights of suspects and the conditions of detention. a european arrest warrant may exceptionally be refused if it threatens national security or if the requested measure is not authorised by national law. member states shall have 30 days to examine the request for a european arrest warrant and 90 days to execute it. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european arrest warrant is a useful instrument which needs to be improved in order to be more effective while ensuring that the fundamental rights of the accused are respected.
in writing. the european arrest warrant is an essential tool for cooperation between judicial and law enforcement authorities. we must improve it, while keeping in mind the importance of consistency of the rules of all the cooperation tools we have at our disposal, such as the european investigation order.
in writing. the european arrest warrant (eaw) adopted in 2002 replaces the extradition system by requiring each national judicial authority (judicial enforcement authority) to recognise, ipso facto, and subject to minimum checks, the request for surrender of a person made by the judicial authority of another member state. it was this arrangement that enabled france to hand aurore martin over to the spanish authorities for acts that did not correspond to any crime in france! this is an awkward situation. the report before us raises a number of criticisms of the use of the european arrest warrant and focuses on respect for human rights and the principle of proportionality. it is a step in the right direction and, to encourage these efforts, i am voting in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu-indonesia voluntary partnership agreement on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in wood products with the union. indonesia has many resources, including precious timber, which is being plundered through poor exploitation and control. we need to make lasting agreements.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-indonesia voluntary partnership agreement which looks at the conditions for implementing the agreement and makes a series of recommendations to the european commission, including on the certification process in indonesia.
in writing. in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance. the agreement before us is part of the flegt (forest law enforcement for governance and trade) framework, which i supported in january 2011. but this agreement only allows partial progress towards the necessary establishment of a mechanism for sanctions for all environmental crimes. it introduces minimum regulation in indonesian timber imports to the eu. in view of the massive deforestation taking place in this third largest forest in the world, which has been devastated by palm oil production, this agreement deserves to be encouraged, but above all improved. for these reasons, i abstain.
in writing. the objective of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of indonesia is to establish a legislative framework to ensure the traceability of timber products, to establish a verification procedure to certify that timber products exported to the european union market have been lawfully acquired, harvested, transported and exported and to ensure the sound management and lawful exploitation of indonesian forests, and to enhance the effectiveness of the european action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade. i was strongly committed to fairer and more equitable trade and could only support this agreement. but i also share the recommendations we made in the resolution: the indonesian certification system, which is currently being revised, must now rise to the occasion and seize this new opportunity to gain credibility.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on the situation in venezuela because it is a good resolution on the current situation.
in writing. i voted against this resolution on venezuela because it is not balanced enough. she does not mention that the opposition is even divided on the strategy to adopt against the chavista regime, that part of the opposition has clearly chosen violence following its inability to win the presidential election, nor that venezuela is a state of law, with transparent elections. this position on venezuelan news is biased and will not ease the situation there.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in venezuela which condemns all acts of violence and deplores the tragic deaths that occurred during the peaceful demonstrations of 12[nbsp ]february[nbsp ]2014 and the following days. the text of the resolution also reminds the venezuelan government that freedom of expression and the right to peaceful demonstration are fundamental rights in any democracy and encourages the parties to conduct a peaceful dialogue.
in writing. this outrageous resolution wants us to believe that the "peaceful" activists behind the riots and violence in venezuela are "persecuted" by the government. this text thus peddles the rumors already relayed by the us media. a little seriousness would be in order. europe too has the right to have its own geopolitical vision rather than to align itself with an atlanticist line whose sole purpose is to defend us interests in the region. i assure the support of all informed people for the resistance of the legitimate authorities of venezuela against this new attempt of coup d'état by the extreme right wing of venezuela. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of the union's visa policy.
in writing. we have just introduced in june 2013 a mechanism allowing the european commission to suspend visa exemption in case of a substantial and sudden increase in asylum applications, persons in an irregular situation, or rejections of readmission applications. an effective and dissuasive suspension mechanism is essential to prevent and address abuse. however, this mechanism has never been activated. we cannot therefore support further visa waivers and further opening of our borders until this suspension mechanism has proved its worth.
in writing. this resolution proposes ways forward for the future of the union's common visa policy. it is intended to facilitate visa procedures. it called on the member states to make use of the provisions of the visa code allowing for the issuing of humanitarian visas to facilitate the temporary reception of human rights defenders in danger in third countries. it also calls for new agreements to facilitate the issuing of visas. this is a good thing, although it is foreseeable that this resolution will have only a limited scope. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted for the garcia-hierro caraballo and romeva i rueda report on specific measures under the common fisheries policy, because it develops the role of women.
in writing. this paper deals with the precarious situation of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector in europe. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this text rightly calls for better protection for women working in this field. it is important to recognise the essential role they play in fisheries and aquaculture, both legally and socially. the european union must therefore ensure that the application of the common fisheries policy is in accordance with the principle of equality between men and women.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on specific measures under the common fisheries policy to develop the role of women. in order to be able to assess the contribution of women to the fisheries and aquaculture sector, it is necessary to improve the collection and analysis of statistical information. the report also calls on the member states to use the possibilities offered by the emff to finance projects whose beneficiaries are women.
in writing. women make up more than half of the human race. the fight for equal opportunities for women and men is a pressing need, whether it is access to training and management positions or equal pay. this report introduces concrete proposals for equality and social recognition of women in the fisheries sector. even though this report contains well-meaning statements of principle which are sometimes too general, i am voting in favour.
in writing. i voted for the report on private copying fees. this is a big step on the copy and download issue.
in writing. this paper discusses the different legislation on private copying charges in europe. consumers have the right to make copies for personal use of certain legally acquired cultural works. however, in the digital age, ensuring adequate copyright protection is essential to secure the cultural sector. different national laws within the internal market sometimes raise certain difficulties. that is why i think it is important to deal with this issue at european level and to move towards harmonisation of legislation. in particular, it is necessary to establish a clear definition of the concept of private copying at european level.
in writing. in 23 of the member states of the european union, the reproduction of artistic works, such as films or music, is permitted for private use. in order to remunerate the persons holding the rights to these works, a tax is levied on multimedia devices and digital consumables. the €600 million raised by this tax is a vital supplement to the income of european artists. the european parliament adopted a report which supports the maintenance of this system of royalties while suggesting various alternatives, whereas royalties for private copying are not enough to compensate artists. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the european union must find more appropriate solutions to safeguard cultural offerings and the rights of artists in the digital age.
in writing. i voted with a majority of my colleagues in favour of an own-initiative report on private copying, an exception mechanism for copyright, which allows those who own cultural property to make a copy of it in exchange for a royalty on the copying media. the report recommends adapting this mechanism to the emergence of new technologies, so that it is compatible with the emergence of new digital media for the consumption of cultural works and goods. the private copying system is very successful in our country, because it supports the creativity and competitiveness of our creative and cultural sectors, guaranteeing european cultural exceptionalism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on private copying levies, which represents a balanced system between the private copying exception and the right to fair compensation for rightholders. however, the system could be improved at european level by adopting a common definition of 'fair compensation', a single charge and better visibility to consumers.
in writing. culture is seen here only as a commodity. moreover, this report is far from initiating the necessary reflection on the financing of culture. in the digital age, which is disrupting the modes of distribution and consumption, the text merely engraves in marble an outdated economic model of distribution which ultimately benefits only the artists and professionals who already benefit the most. it's time to stop pitting artists against their audiences. i vote against it.
in writing. the private copying levy is a system which exists in several member states, including france. it consists of levying a tax on the media capable of generating copies of digital works. i am committed to this mechanism: it supports a fair remuneration of authors, and constitutes an important source of funding for creation in the broad sense (allocation of part of the remuneration to actions of cultural or social interest, to the training of authors, to the deployment of festivals, etc.). it also allows the use of works by a large number of consumers without complex formalities, while remunerating the rightholders. i therefore supported this report, which places a premium on remuneration for private copying, while stressing the need to remain open to the evolution of digital technologies, to find appropriate solutions and modernise the approach to remuneration. i did not, however, support paragraph 3 of the text, which goes a little too far in advocating the spread of a fully harmonised system of charges in the eu. in the end, overall, this report shows that the eu is committed to protecting its cultural industry and wants to act to support it, and i share this conviction.
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr president of the european investment bank, accompanied by its director-general, i thank you and i congratulate you, mr president, first of all, for the attention you, like your predecessor, have paid to parliamentarians, because the eib is basically an intergovernmental instrument. my first words will be to thank my colleague marinescu, who has really done an excellent report, and my speech will be on two subjects: first, investment and, second, prudential supervision. the european union is not investing enough. my colleagues say so. we are not investing enough and, moreover, the report says that the growth pact is an important but not sufficient response. i think that more and more of us are thinking that the time has come for this great european plan for investment in infrastructure. the european council asked the european commission to present a report on the priorities and implementation of the growth pact. infrastructure, energy, digital, research, road, rail, air, we know the headlines. we are not investing enough in these areas. we would probably need a plan of 1,000 to 1,500 billion euros by 2020. the report makes a proposal to you: that we have a political debate with you, mr president of the european investment bank, the european commission, but also the president of the european council. the next european council on 20 and 21 march will start the evaluation of the europe 2020 strategy. we should take stock of the investment. the last point is on prudential supervision. mr president, we have been asking for the bank to take over the supervision of the bank since 2007. i don't think you're opposed to it. your predecessor said in this house that he was in favour. parliament proposes three formulas. either recourse to the legal basis which was used for the banking union [nbsp ]article[nbsp ]127 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, but the council has to take an initiative[nbsp ], either prudential supervision within the framework of the banking union or a voluntary approach by the european banking authority with or without the participation of one or more supervisors. it's a real confidence building factor for the long-term investment of the bank you're running.
member of the commission. - mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr burkhard balz; mrs[nbsp ]sharon bowles, chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs; the shadow rapporteurs mr peter skinner, mrs sylvie goulard, mr ashley fox and mr sven giegold; the committee on economic and monetary affairs and parliament as a whole for the work that has been done on omnibus ii. the agreement on omnibus ii that parliament reached with the council and the commission in november of last year, after almost three years of negotiations, is a very important step towards the introduction of a modern and risk-based solvency regime for the insurance industry in europe, as of 1[nbsp ]january[nbsp ]2016. it updates and completes the solvency ii directive. the new solvency requirements under solvency ii will be more sophisticated and more risk-sensitive than in the past, thus enabling a better coverage of the real risks of any particular insurer. the new requirements move away from a crude, one-model-fits-all way of estimating capital requirements to more entity-specific requirements. at the same time, unintended consequences for the real economy are avoided, because omnibus ii – thanks to the technical advice of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) and the insistence of this parliament – introduces a balanced package of measures that will enable insurers to provide insurance products with long-term guarantees. today’s vote also means that europe will soon have in place an insurance regime that will serve as an example for other regions in the world. solvency[nbsp ]ii will also put a greater focus on risks and their management, as well as introducing stricter rules on the public disclosure of certain information. solvency ii should thus increase confidence in the insurance market, making it both safer and more competitive. this long-awaited and vital reform is now becoming a reality. the commission is preparing the next stage of the implementation of solvency ii, which will be the adoption of a commission delegated act containing a large number of detailed implementing rules, as laid down in empowerments in the directive. important principles such as the proportionality principle, which are also very dear to this parliament, will be duly reflected on. the adoption of this delegated act is planned for the summer of this year. at the same time, eiopa is working hard on a package of implementing technical standards. everything will be ready for solvency ii application on 1[nbsp ]january[nbsp ]2016. at the request of the european parliament and the council, the omnibus ii directive contains two new articles – articles 2(ab) and 2(ac) – which amend both the esma and the eiopa regulations. the commission agrees with the substance of these amendments. however, as highlighted by the commission during the trilogue discussions, amending union regulations by the legislative instrument of a union directive is not in line with the principles of good legislative drafting. in this context, the commission also notes that the three esa regulations constitute an essential building block of the supervisory structure within the internal market for financial services, and thus for the banking union. due to the fundamental nature of the three esa regulations, and for reasons of legal certainty, it is the commission’s view that it is paramount to preserve the integrity and coherence of these regulations, avoiding subsequent or uncoordinated changes to these rules through sectoral legislation. thus, while the commission can accept the substance of these amendments, in the context of the final agreement on the omnibus ii proposal the commission is of the opinion that it would have been more appropriate to determine these issues in the context of the forthcoming horizontal review of the esa regulations. that said, i would again like to congratulate parliament on its instrumental work on this important dossier.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, after months of work we have finally reached a result and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr burkhard balz, the commission and the successive council departments and teams who have helped us to conduct this difficult and complex negotiation successfully. the aim is therefore to make the single insurance market as much as possible, which had been initiated by solvency ii but which called for additions linked to the creation of eiopa. however, beyond all this, one of our constant concerns has been to enable insurers to continue to play their role as long-term financiers of the economy without suffering from excessive short-term volatility, which is not obvious, because, as peter skinner has just mentioned, these rules were originally conceived in solvency ii before the crisis and, of course, concerns, i would say, of prudence and control, can end up making investment more difficult. i believe that we have done work which allows for more transparency in the commitments of insurers and the quality of their assets, which gives additional obligations for better governance and which also helps eiopa to play its full role as a european authority. i would like to draw the commission's attention to one important point. for legislation like this, voting on a bill is one thing, implementing it is another. we need delegated acts to transcribe a number of important elements of the agreement which was reached on 13 november last. the principle of proportionality is applied in this agreement, which imposes obligations on the agencies according to their size and their commitments. this point must be very precisely reflected in the delegated acts. we shall see what happens in the next parliament, but i think that this will be a very important point for the members and for the commission services. finally, there is an international opening. perhaps we should have done a little more, tried to harmonize the rules on a global level. i believe that this will also be one of the chapters that will have to be developed in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, this is an important text which, in my view, is part of a much broader effort to improve transparency. in a number of texts which we have had to deal with in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, we have tried to limit tax evasion and tax evasion and to ensure that the revenue can be channelled into the coffers of the southern states in difficulty. what struck me most about my work here was that there had been a clear emphasis on budgetary discipline up to now, but that, in the end, the public authorities had been rather unconcerned about where some of the money generated by honest or less honest activities had gone. we can therefore only welcome this fourth anti-money laundering directive which goes even further and deals with criminal activities. it's good that we have central registers. the issue of trusts has been widely debated. there are major differences between member states. i hope we've found a satisfactory solution. i am struck by the fact that the text clearly identifies the people who are politically exposed; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. i also believe that there are benefits to having both positive and negative lists of countries with risks or those outside the european union who are making efforts. i think that we are far from being right about this text, but that this collective work is going in the right direction. i would like to see progress also in the area of non-opportunity, not crime.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all share the same conviction: that the rules on money laundering and the fight against tax evasion must be regularly reviewed. this should make us better equipped to cut off the sources of financial channels which may support criminal activities in europe. i therefore particularly welcome the progress that can be made with the text which the european parliament is going to vote on today. one of the best ways to put an end to the shell companies behind which some people hide to launder the dirty money from criminal activities is to have a public register of beneficial owners. it is well known that too divergent practices in identifying the beneficial owners of companies and legal persons facilitate the use of opaque structures, especially when this is coupled with insufficiently binding national regulations which encourage the development of unregulated structures. by listing the ultimate beneficiaries of companies or trusts in the public central registers of the member states of the european union, we can end the anonymity of offshore companies and accounts used by fraudsters to conceal their financial transactions. a mandatory, centralised and publicly accessible public register is therefore an indispensable tool for achieving an effective fight against money laundering. this is the same reasoning that guides me against exemptions of the gaming industry from its vigilance obligations, even in cases of low risk of money laundering. i believe that such a derogation could not only lead to serious distortions of competition but also allow money launderers to choose the territories where the legislation is more permissive. i therefore believe that it would be preferable to adopt a graduated and therefore, in some cases, lighter surveillance system to take account of the constraints of small operators, as suggested by the fatf.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations with the council have been difficult, but the result, although less ambitious than the position adopted by our european parliament in july 2013, is this regulation which allows the european union to ratify the nagoya protocol and to take part in the next un conference on biodiversity to be held at the end of this year in south korea. finally, we have a regulatory framework which commits the 28 member states of the european union to combating bio-piracy. i would like to thank all the non-existent rapporteurs for their support and remind the european commission that we will be vigilant and demanding in respecting its commitments to draw up the acts implementing article[nbsp ]17 of the nagoya protocol referred to in article[nbsp ]7 of this regulation. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i have never spoken on such matters. democracy is democracy. the fact remains, ladies and gentlemen, that on a report such as this one we should have applied the rules of procedure in the conference of presidents: if there are more than 50 amendments, an own-initiative report cannot be brought before this house. this is the rule to be applied and we shall have large majorities.
madam president, when we adopted the agenda, i wanted to make a point about the application of the treaty. last week, the heads of state or government met to discuss the political situation in ukraine. i wanted to know, madam president, what the status of this meeting was, because the member of the european council of my member state of election - the president of the french republic - has made many statements saying that this was a european council. however, under article[nbsp ]15 of the treaty, the president of the european council should report to the european parliament following each european council. i'd like to know what the status of that meeting was. if it was a summit or a european council, was the president of the european council asked to report? tomorrow we will have a debate on the political situation in ukraine with resolutions. it would have been a good idea and a good initiative to have a political exchange with the president. i would add, madam president, that as regards the european council on 20 and 21 march, i would like to know whether article 15 of the treaty will be respected as regards the report to be made by the president to the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which makes it possible to develop and strengthen statistics on the transport of goods by inland waterways. this information is particularly useful in order to strengthen the internal market and to improve policy coordination between member states.
in writing. this text contributes to improving the production of union statistics on inland waterway transport of goods and passengers. it distributes the collection of statistics more evenly between the european parliament and the commission. in other words, uniform conditions are laid down for the transmission of data to the commission via its directorate-general for statistical information, eurostat. i support this report, which will improve the regulation of freight and passenger transport and increase safety.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation which aims to define better the role of the commission in relation to statistics on inland waterway freight transport. as a member of parliament from a region stretching from the mediterranean to the atlantic ocean and including one of the oldest waterways in france, the canal du midi, i am always aware of any legislative developments in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague eva lichtenberger on the collection of statistics on the inland waterway transport of goods by the european commission. the commission's prerogatives are governed by this report, which also gives the european parliament a supervisory role. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the main purpose of this commission text is to give the commission new powers (delegated and implementing acts) in the field of statistics on the transport of goods by inland waterway. it is based on the treaty of lisbon, which i fought against and which the french people rejected by referendum with a majority of almost 55%. nicolas sarkozy has imposed this new treaty on the french people against their will, which they had expressed through the ballot box. just as i did not tolerate this trampling on popular sovereignty in 2009, i do not tolerate its effects in 2014, even if it is on a purely statistical and technical subject. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the principle of subsidiarity. i vote against it.
in writing. the text aims to provide a framework for the production, trade and monitoring of member states' macroeconomic statistics on 'macroeconomic imbalances' (deficit, growth, etc.). it is statistics in the service of austerity to establish an "alert mechanism to facilitate the early detection and monitoring of imbalances". i reject this authoritarian and technocratic framework. popular sovereignty is democratic and cannot be muzzled by rigid macroeconomic criteria. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the rules governing the way in which relevant statistical data are provided for the purpose of the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. these rules apply to the development of indicators, the monitoring of their quality and their publication in the scoreboard of the macroeconomic imbalances procedure.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament's report on the provision and quality of statistics for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. officially, this is to ensure the quality, the speed of production and the provision of statistical data by also monitoring their quality. but in reality, these established statistics are major tools for detecting "macroeconomic imbalances". we know what that means, and we know what it means to put the emphasis on preventing and correcting excessive imbalances within the union. these are, under the guise of 'good' governance, major tools for the surveillance of national budgets as implemented in the context of austerity policies. this will strengthen the commission's upstream control and give it statistical tools to base its bloody recommendations to the member states on structural reforms, and here again we know what that means. the political group to which i belong in this parliament, the gue/ngl, rejects these policies in general and wants to promote other policies based on solidarity and a different distribution of wealth.
in writing. with their focus on science and technology, the economies of the united states and the european union enjoy a dominant position at the global level. to ensure sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, the european union needs to strengthen the technological and scientific foundations of its economy and therefore cooperate closely with the united states on many projects. that is why i voted in favour of renewing the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with that country.
in writing. i supported the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the united states for a further five years. it appears that such an agreement is mutually beneficial and contributes to good relations and knowledge exchange between these two entities at the forefront of research and innovation. this agreement should therefore be renewed as identical. i particularly welcome the continuation of scientific cooperation between the union and the united states in the field of space, in order to create synergies in this sector which creates competitiveness and jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this council decision to extend the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the united states of america. i strongly support the renewal of this agreement, which is in the interest of both parties, as it would maintain the continuity of the scientific and technological relations between the united states and the european union. it will also bring socioeconomic benefits to both sides, which is of course a positive aspect.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague amalia sartori on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the united states. the aim of this agreement is to enable the european community and the united states to benefit, on the basis of the principle of mutual benefit, from the scientific and technical progress made in the framework of joint research programmes. the renewal of this agreement was therefore intended to strengthen our bilateral relations in the field of science and technology. i welcome the adoption of this agreement.
in writing. the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america has been in force since 1998. the agreement was renewed in 2009 and expired in 2013. the aim here is to renew the agreement in the same terms and 'in the interests of both parties'. but what is the point of europe cooperating in sensitive areas when everything is against us? the agreement covers agriculture, among other things, while europe is opposed to gmos, and non-nuclear energy, while we are trying to resist the exploitation of shale gas. they don't need cooperation, they just need to extend the nsa surveillance to european researchers. i am strongly opposed to the renewal of this agreement and i shall vote against it.
in writing. the report presented to meps gives consent to the extension of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the eu and the us. i have decided to vote against this text in order to express my opposition to the conclusion of such an agreement. firstly, i wanted to oppose it because in the previous negotiations new areas, which i consider very sensitive, such as nanotechnologies or security and space research, were added to the cooperation agreement. secondly, the reopening of the negotiations between the union and the united states on the cooperation agreement could be used as a pretext for informal negotiations on the free trade agreement, which i strongly oppose.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which approves the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the united states of america. the renewal of this agreement will strengthen bilateral relations in the field of science and technology between the parties.
in writing. scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the united states is very important in terms of innovation and skills sharing. the european union and the united states both have enormous potential for technological innovation and a highly skilled workforce. cooperation in this field greatly increases the possibilities for the creation of innovative technologies and scientific development. i am glad that i voted in favour of renewing this cooperation. two countries so advanced in knowledge must be allied. however, the european union must take care to protect its own technologies, which are the basis for economic recovery. in its negotiations with the united states, whatever they may be, the union must pay particular attention to the respect of intellectual property provisions.
in writing. i voted against parliament's authorisation to the council to allow the renewal of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and the united states. this agreement, originally signed in 1997 and renewed for a further five years, was amended in 2009. it has since contained provisions on nanotechnologies, security (including civil security, for example airport scanners or video surveillance) and space research. it is therefore not a 'neutral' agreement, particularly with regard to the question of protection, which need not be discussed in detail after the prism nsa case. moreover, as the fourth round of negotiations on the transatlantic single market is now taking place, how can we fail to see that such an agreement is intrinsically linked to the adoption of what is purported to be the world's largest free trade area? we are firmly resolved, together with the gue/ngl members and in particular those from the left front, to oppose this draft agreement and all its variants by all means.
in writing. as genetic resources represent a significant economic interest, their exploitation can cause serious environmental and ethical problems. in view of this situation, the international community and the european union have decided to take action to regulate their use and the distribution of the benefits derived from them. i voted in favour of this text because it is an important issue.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this recommendation, which aims to create a global bank of genetic resources, thus reducing inequalities between countries and promoting scientific research.
in writing. with this text, the european parliament simply gives its approval to the conclusion of the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use. i approve the signing of this protocol, which will be a strong signal in the fight against bio-piracy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague, mrs sandrine bélier, on the ratification of the nagoya protocol by the european union. the protocol aims to ensure the fair sharing of genetic resources (which allow the creation of new medicines, for example) and to combat illegal access to these resources (biopiracy). this ratification will allow the eu to participate fully in the conference of the parties scheduled for october 2014, otherwise it would only have an observer seat. i therefore welcome the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. the conclusion of the procedure for the ratification by the european union of the nagoya protocol on biodiversity is good news in the fight against bio-piracy. the plundering of the genetic resources of the countries of the south by multinational corporations must stop. i am voting in favour to support the fight to preserve biodiversity.
in writing. the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair sharing of benefits arising from their utilization was adopted in october 2010. it is a supplementary agreement to the convention on biological diversity and concerns the conditions for access and sharing for the use of genetic resources. the text for the vote by meps concerns the decision whether or not to ratify the nagoya protocol. it would, for example, improve the union's position in controlling illegal trade and the misuse of genetic resources by pharmaceutical laboratories, a modern scourge with a disastrous impact on the environment. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this text, which has laudable objectives and which it is important to defend.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the adoption of the compromise resulting from the trilogues on the european 'apa' regulation is a necessary precondition for the union to ratify the nagoya protocol before july 2014, which would allow the union to participate as a party to the first meeting of the parties to the nagoya protocol. the compromise reached on this regulation constitutes an appropriate general framework for ensuring compliance in the union with the rules on access to and sharing of benefits arising from the utilisation of genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with such resources.
in writing. genetic resources must be protected as part of the preservation of biodiversity. it is important to create a legislative framework to define the sharing of these resources so that each user country can enjoy the same benefits from them. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. first, this legislation will provide european citizens with a guarantee of traceability and ethics by ensuring sustainable access to genetic resources. in addition, it will guarantee a much larger research potential. biodiversity is a source of innovation and scientific discovery. the european union must therefore do its utmost to provide the most appropriate legislative framework for its preservation.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support workers, mainly in regions and sectors that have been disadvantaged by the opening up of the global economy. the case in point concerns redundancies in the textile sector in spain, in the region of valencia. the european commission proposes to mobilise a budget of €840 000 to help workers who have been made redundant. unemployment in this region has risen from a rate of 9[nbsp]% in 2008 to 29[nbsp]% in 2013. i voted in favour of this request.
in writing. parliament decided to accept the request for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund from the textile company in the comunidad valenciana to help the employees of this company, which is severely affected by the consequences of globalisation on employment. the crisis has severely affected employees in the region, where the unemployment rate rose from 9.61% in 2008 to 29.19% in 2013. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. the unemployment rate in the valencian community, which stands at 29.19[nbsp ]%, largely due to the crisis, requires extraordinary measures, such as the european union's support for workers in the region through the european globalisation adjustment fund. with this text, we provide reorientation opportunities for the majority of workers who have been made redundant in the region's nearly 200[nbsp] textile companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision of the parliament and the council because i believe it is important that the european union should help the spanish textile industry. the country has been hit hard by the economic crisis and today there are many redundancies in many sectors. as such, i very much hope that the deployment of the european globalisation adjustment fund will help to remedy this difficult situation.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague frédéric daerden on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) concerning redundancies in the textile industry in spain. the egf is intended to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, in order to help them re-enter the labour market. the spanish application reported 560 licences between 1 november 2012 and 1 august 2013 in 19 enterprises falling within nace rev.2 division 13 (textile manufacturing), located in the municipality of valencia. following a thorough examination of the application, the commission concluded that the conditions for a financial contribution were met. i welcome the broad adoption of this report.
in writing. the globalisation fund has done its job well. instead of helping workers, it encourages companies and governments to submit to the dictates of liberal thinking. the example of the valencian community is a case in point: the textile sector is slowing down sharply due to the massive increase in imports of products directly competing with those manufactured in spain. 560 redundancies occurred in 198 textile enterprises in the region. the project presented to us is limited to 300 workers. the spanish authorities question the opening of the european union textile market to competition, in particular from china and other far eastern countries, but do not dare to mention a possible solidarity protectionism that would put an end to social and ecological dumping. i shall abstain in order not to deprive spanish workers of this fund.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the region of the valencian community, which is currently experiencing a difficult financial period. the aid will amount to approximately eur 840 000 and will co-finance active labour market measures in the region. this will help to re-employ some 300[nbsp] workers made redundant and create long-term sustainable jobs for the people of the region.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision which proposes to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 198[nbsp ]enterprises in nace rev. 13 (textile manufacturing) located in the comunidad valenciana (es52), due to major changes in the structure of world trade resulting from globalisation.
in writing. trade globalisation is only beneficial if all countries follow the same rules. yet the european union too often faces competition from third countries which do not hesitate to use unfair methods to achieve their aims. i am in favour of opening up the european market to the rest of the world, but certainly not at the expense of european businesses. we must act in advance of this problem by adopting common instruments of trade defence and the european parliament has understood this. however, it is clear that in some cases, a post-processing must be carried out. the union has also provided for certain mechanisms to redress the damage caused by globalisation. this is the case with the european globalisation adjustment fund. spain has turned to europe for financial assistance in the textile sector, which faces competition from china and other far eastern countries, where labour is often underpaid. i am glad that i voted in favour of granting substantial aid to spanish workers who are suffering the ravages of unfair global competition.
in writing. i voted in favour of rejecting the commission's proposal on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material. the commission has made incomplete and ambiguous proposals on this very complex subject. these do not simplify legislation, nor do they take account of innovation and the need to preserve biodiversity and protect farmers. they leave many sensitive issues unresolved, which will have to be addressed by too many implementing acts in the form of delegated acts, which will significantly reduce the legislative powers of the european parliament and, thereby, democracy. the proposed timetable also left us no time to analyse carefully and seriously, before the end of our mandate, the more than 1400[nbsp]amendments that had been tabled. in these circumstances, it seems to me more reasonable to pass this dossier on to the new european parliament which will emerge from the next elections, for a more calm and more thorough examination at second reading, on a very technical subject but one of great political interest to all farmers and amateur gardeners.
in writing. in line with the recommendations of the parliament's committee on agriculture, i voted against the european commission's proposal to delegate an excessive number of powers to the european commission, which would call into question the fundamental role of the european parliament and the council of the union as co-legislators.
in writing. i voted against this text on seeds proposed by the european commission, because it risks adding bureaucratic complexity for small producers and threatening biodiversity. furthermore, the timetable did not give us the time to carefully consider the more than 1400[nbsp] amendments that had been tabled. i welcome the fact that this text has been referred back to committee.
in writing. the european parliament voted to reject the european commission's proposal on the production and making available on the market of plant reproductive material. this legislation must be put back into practice. it was not acceptable in the sense that it would have given the commission too many powers in this area, over which we want to preserve greater parliamentary control. the structure of the text replacing twelve existing directives in a single piece of legislation was also a matter of concern. it is therefore necessary to clarify this proposed legislation further.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the rejection of the european commission's proposal for a regulation on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material, also known as the [nbsp]seed regulation[nbsp]. the majority of meps voted in favour of this rejection. the commission proposal, which merges twelve directives, was of poor quality and left a number of threats, notably as regards the autonomy of the member states and citizens in the use and choice of seeds, without promoting innovation and simplifying the existing rules in a lasting way. a text of such importance must be able to be voted on under the right conditions, leaving time for debate, which was not possible at the end of this parliamentary term. i therefore hope that the council will follow the european parliament's position.
in writing. i voted against the report by my colleague sergio paolo francesco silvestris and in favour of rejecting the european commission's proposal to lay down rules governing the production and making available of plant reproductive material by merging 12[nbsp ]directives into a single regulation. the commission's proposal contained a large number of delegated acts which enabled it to define the precise content of the text at a later stage, in particular on certain new elements (such as niche or heterogeneous material), which obscured the overall content of the text and thus its real impact. the european parliament has called on the commission to withdraw its legislative proposal. i therefore welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. the commission wants to bring the horticulture and forestry sector under the control of a standardisation corresponding to the requirements of multinationals. it wants to push for the standardisation of crops by requiring that only seeds registered in the european catalogue can be grown. the method is similar to an attempt to force passage: even the right wing of the european parliament is asking for more time to debate the text. i am voting against the commission proposal and therefore in favour of parliament's report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which rejects the commission's proposal and calls on it to submit a new one. because of its great diversity, plant reproductive material is currently regulated by twelve directives, which make it possible to adapt the standard to each case. therefore, the single approach proposed by the european commission may not meet the different requirements for existing plant reproductive material and the needs of operators, consumers and competent authorities.
in writing. i voted against this report. despite warnings, the european commission did not want to listen to meps and wanted to force an inappropriate text through. more importantly, the report failed to take account of innovations and the need to preserve biodiversity and farmers, and failed to provide any answers to businesses on administrative simplification. the aim of this text was clear: to reduce the powers of the parliament to give the european commission full latitude. this is a sensitive and important subject for many of our territories. it could not be treated lightly and in a technical way. the next parliamentary term should be an opportunity for extensive work on this subject and for a genuine democratic debate.
in writing. in may 2013, the commission proposed a draft regulation on the production and placing on the market of seeds. the aim was to merge twelve existing directives into one regulation and to speed up the european registration of seeds in order to improve production safety. the proposal was opposed by the two main seed producers, small businesses, agricultural federations defending peasant farming, and associations of gardeners and private individuals. the trade union and associative movements accuse the commission of strengthening the patentability of a part of life and of being contrary to the union's objective of protecting biodiversity. i share this view and am increasingly uncomfortable with certain european legislation which seeks to regulate everything in the place of national legislators, so i voted against this legislative proposal, as did almost all the members of the european parliament. however, the commission maintained its proposal. the ball is now in the council's court, which will have to decide whether it supports the european parliament's position on preserving a more sustainable and peasant farming. this is an opportunity to see how much importance the council attaches to the european parliament - perhaps more than usual in the run-up to the elections.
in writing. like national public services, the european public service needs to be reformed in order to increase the efficiency of the service provided and to reduce excessive expenditure. this is precisely why the statute for european civil servants was the subject of an ambitious reform last year. the aim was to adjust the remuneration and pensions of officials and other servants of the european union. i voted in favour of this measure, which was agreed between the negotiators of the council and parliament.
in writing. as this text is not available 24 hours before the vote, i consider it impossible for me to read it under the right conditions and to express an opinion on it. i therefore abstain on this text. i would like to point out, however, the undemocratic character of this institution, which clearly disregards its parliamentarians.
in writing. like national public services, the european public service needs to be reformed in order to increase the efficiency of the service provided and to reduce excessive expenditure. this is precisely why the statute for european civil servants was the subject of an ambitious reform last year. the aim was to adjust the remuneration and pensions of officials and other servants of the european union. i voted in favour of this measure, which this time concerns the adjustment to 1 july 2012.
in writing. as this text is not available 24 hours before the vote, i consider it impossible for me to read it under the right conditions and to express an opinion on it. i therefore abstain on this text. i would like to point out, however, the undemocratic character of this institution, which clearly disregards its parliamentarians.
in writing. this text aims to implement the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the republic of serbia, which entered into force in 2013. it seems to me legitimate, for the sake of the proper implementation of this agreement, to confer certain implementing powers on the european commission in the field of trade policy. the agreement will then help to strengthen trade with neighbouring serbia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague iuliu winkler which introduces the rules for implementing a tariff quota on fishery products and trade defence instruments between the eu and serbia. the objective of these measures is to implement certain provisions of an interim agreement concluded to facilitate the early application of the trade provisions of the association and stabilisation agreement concluded with serbia in 2008. i therefore welcome the broad adoption of this report.
in writing. this text concerns the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european union and the republic of serbia, which entered into force in september 2013. the main purpose of these association agreements is to bring the trade rules of the various entities into line with the lisbon treaty. it is therefore a market opening and a customs agreement aimed at imposing 'structural reforms' and moving towards a 'market economy'. this agreement will only increase competition between peoples for the sole benefit of capital. in line with my vote in january on the report on serbia's 'progress', i am voting against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which lays down rules and procedures for the adoption of detailed rules for implementing certain provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and serbia, of the other part.
in writing. relations between serbia and the european union are becoming closer. through an active european strategy in the western balkans, the union has gradually succeeded in enforcing universal standards, such as human rights, the rule of law and democracy, in a region that was still at war 15 years ago. the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and serbia and the various economic partnerships between the two entities are evidence of considerable progress by serbia in meeting european standards. however, it should be borne in mind that the legislation of the union and serbia is constantly evolving. we must adapt these agreements to the new legislation so that this successful partnership is not jeopardized by minor technical and administrative aspects.
in writing. this is a proposal for a directive to amend the prospectus directive and the solvency ii directive as regards the competences of the european securities and markets authority and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. my colleague mr balz's report stresses that financial stability is a prerequisite for the real economy to lead to job creation, credit provision and growth. after lengthy negotiations, an agreement was reached with the council and the commission in a trilogue. i voted in favour of this agreement, and i therefore supported it, because i think it is a balanced agreement.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to ensure a high level of regulation of financial markets in europe by the european financial markets authority and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. financial stability is an essential condition for the recovery of growth and employment in europe. it therefore seems to me quite appropriate to adapt the european legislation on solvency ii relating to access to insurance and reinsurance activities. this should in particular be in line with the new provisions of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by introducing more financial regulation. i welcome the introduction of the possibility for the new authorities to settle disputes in a balanced way in areas where sectoral legislation already provides for joint decision-making.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr burkhard balz on the powers of the european securities and markets authority and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the financial crisis has exposed serious shortcomings in european financial supervision. the report proposes a new framework for european financial supervision, as well as legislative adaptations to enable the european supervisory authorities (esas) to implement more effective micro-prudential supervision. the report also contains new provisions for the settlement of disputes under the solvency ii directive, new provisions to provide a better knowledge of the assets held by insurance or reinsurance undertakings and proposals for transitional periods to ensure a smooth transition at european level. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. - the commission intervened on directives 2003/71/ec and 2009/138/ec concerning the powers of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) and the european securities and markets authority (esma). the crisis has highlighted some shortcomings in the areas of cooperation, coordination and consistent application of union law. national supervisory models have failed to keep pace with financial globalisation and the interconnected reality of european financial markets. amendments to union legislation are therefore necessary to develop a single set of rules that will ensure harmonisation and contribute to a more efficient functioning of the internal market.
in writing. this proposal, which was essentially technical, was intended to transpose into the insurance sector the provisions contained in the european framework for financial supervision of insurance markets and the insurance sector, but, due to the lobbying, the proposal essentially protects the insurance sector in the various member states. it lowers capital requirements well beyond mere 'circumstantial adjustments', so that in cases where the value of insurers' assets will not be sufficient to cover the liabilities arising from insurance contracts, this will lead to significant systemic risks and, as in the case of banks, to the socialisation of losses. under the cover of financial surveillance, the next crisis is methodically prepared. i vote against it.
in writing. the financial crisis has revealed many shortcomings in the financial system. the european union then put in place various instruments to ensure the supervision of the financial system so that the situation of 2008 would not be repeated. financial, banking and insurance supervisory agencies have been set up. the amended directives will enable us to guarantee our citizens the best possible supervision of the european financial system. i am glad i voted in favour of this resolution. we cannot afford to face another crisis. the european union and its member states have succeeded in taking their share of the responsibility and ensuring that the mistakes which plunged europe into deep economic instability are not repeated.
in writing. the economic crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of an insufficiently regulated international financial system. to prevent such a scenario from happening again, financial activities in europe need to be better controlled. therefore, a european supervisory system for banks (eba), insurance (eiopa) and financial markets (esma) should be established. the insurance sector will also need to go further by providing a stricter and more transparent framework for risk management policies. the european parliament calls for the provisions for insurance to be similar to those for banks but adapted to their specific long-term investment profile so as not to penalise them for their financial activities. r and
in writing. the report by burkhard balz (epp, germany) concerns the amendment of directives concerning the powers of the european securities and markets authority and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the right to take up and pursue insurance and reinsurance business, better known in the relevant circles as 'solvency ii'. the report is the result of discussions after the financial bubble burst, and it is not going in the right direction. here again we find very technical measures which are part of the framework of financial capitalism, the harmful effects of which the gue/ngl continues to condemn in europe. it contains a measure which implies restricting the capital funds which insurance institutions must keep safe. this sounds normal for conventional insurers but it is nonsense for companies under the mutual status. as vice-president of the social economy intergroup, i tabled an amendment to exclude the smallest health insurance companies from the solvency ii directive, because these measures challenge their model and could be fatal. unfortunately, only a handful of members understood the issues and the amendment was rejected.
in writing. the objective of this proposal for a regulation is to improve the traceability of money transfers in order to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing. the proposed amendments aim to address the identified transparency gaps by imposing the following main rules: information on the beneficiary, extension of the scope to credit and debit cards and mobile phones and other digital or computer devices, obligation to verify the identity of the beneficiary, strengthening of the sanctioning powers of the competent authorities and publication of sanctions. i voted in favour of this report to allow my colleagues to negotiate with the council and the commission.
in writing. by voting for this text, the european parliament is seeking to strengthen the transparency and traceability of money transfers to support the fight against terrorism and organised crime. i support these measures to provide more information, in particular on the recipients of these transfers, in order to prevent money laundering in europe. it is also necessary to ensure that effective and dissuasive penalties are in place in the event of fraud. however, i recognise that a coherent framework for the protection of personal data is essential, particularly when transferring such information to law enforcement authorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation which has the effect of actively combating all types of financial fraud in the union. i can only share the desire to require the payment service provider of the payee to verify the identity of the payee for payments above eur 1000. i hope that all these measures will help to reduce the opacity that can be present in the case of transfers of funds within the union, because the fight against tax fraud is one of the major concerns of our citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues mojca kleva kekuš and timothy kirkhope on the information accompanying transfers of funds to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing. the report focuses on the introduction of public registers of beneficial ownership. member states should ensure that central, commercial or company registers held in their territory contain information on beneficial owners. i welcome the broad adoption of this report.
in writing. the lack of effective information requirements in the financial sector allows for massive fraud and illicit money flows into the sector. the proposal introduces an obligation for payment service providers to record information on the payer as well as the recipient of funds when executing a transfer above eur 1 [nbsp ] 000 [nbsp ] . this attempt to bring the financial sector under control is only the tip of the iceberg. there is no mention of the wild liberalization of capital flows, the transfer prices which allow large groups to avoid paying taxes, or the austerity which is decimating tax controls. i am abstaining in order not to participate in this charade, but not to condemn the fact that the subject is being raised.
in writing. this is a revision of directive 2005/60/ec to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs i tabled several amendments to emphasize the protection of the integrity of sport and to clarify the application of the text to operators of games and lotteries. the text put to the vote makes it possible to improve the directive currently in force. i therefore voted in favour. the negotiations with the council and the commission must now move forward rapidly.
in writing. the adoption of this report follows a very serious work carried out by its rapporteurs to eradicate hidden and harmful practices for money laundering and terrorist financing. the fight against this scourge must be stepped up at european level.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to strengthen the prevention of organised crime and money laundering in order to better protect financial systems within the european union. indeed, according to estimates by the international monetary fund, money laundering accounts for nearly 5% of global gdp. this is therefore a considerable shortfall in a period of budgetary difficulties. that is why i think it is important to work towards a better functioning of business registers, so that the beneficiaries of commercial transactions can be clearly identified. however, the fight against organised crime should not be used as an argument for flouting the principle of the protection of personal data. these must therefore be properly supervised and protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive which is part of the fight against financial fraud within the european union. this directive is a further step towards greater financial transparency and i welcome the fact that a set of sanctions is provided for in the event of systematic violation of the fundamental requirements of the directive by member states.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleagues krišjānis kariņš and judith sargentini, which aims to improve the traceability of money transfers to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing. some transparency gaps have been addressed, such as the extension of the scope to credit and debit cards, mobile phones and other digital or computerised devices. the text therefore combines enhanced payment traceability with a certain degree of protection of personal data. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. according to the international monetary fund, money laundering is widespread, amounting to almost 5% of global gdp. the new directive aims to improve the current framework to prevent the financial system from being used to convert the proceeds of criminal activities into lawful funds. this includes improving the functioning of business registers by making it compulsory to identify the beneficial owner of the business or commercial transaction. the emphasis is on the financing of terrorism, forgetting the wild liberalization of capital flows and the opaque financial rules that allow this fraud. this attempt to introduce control of the financial sector is only the tip of the iceberg. i am abstaining in order not to participate in this charade, but not to condemn the fact that the subject is being raised.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which puts an end to the anonymity of offshore companies and accounts used by fraudsters to conceal their financial transactions within the european union. the ultimate beneficiaries of companies or trusts will be listed in public registers. in addition to banks and financial institutions, auditors, lawyers, accountants, notaries, tax advisers, asset managers, trusts and estate agents will be covered by this text.
in writing. money laundering is a significant impediment to the smooth functioning of the financial sector. this type of criminal activity undermines the integrity of the european financial sector, represents a huge loss of revenue for the states and distorts competition. we must fight every day to eradicate this scourge. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. the legislation will make it possible to better prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing at source. it will also lead to improved traceability of funds transfers and transparency, while ensuring citizens' privacy and fundamental rights are protected. a common strategy in this area is the only solution to preserve the european financial sector, which has already been badly damaged by the crisis. the harmonization and adaptation of member states' policies will be a means of ensuring safety and effectiveness in the fight against these reprehensible criminal acts.
in writing. i supported this report in my vote in plenary, as the new directive will strengthen the prevention of the use of the financial system for the conversion of proceeds of criminal activities into lawful funds. according to the international monetary fund, money laundering is widespread, amounting to almost 5% of world gdp. such criminal activities undermine the integrity of the financial sector, cause a loss of revenue for governments, distort competition, hinder the proper functioning of markets and undermine development. this scourge requires a comprehensive and coordinated arsenal of prevention and sanctions at both the european union and its member states.
in writing. this is a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council granting a european union guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under financing operations for projects outside the union for the period 2014-2020. the council and parliament, the two budgetary authorities of the union, have reached an agreement, which i support.
in writing. this text deals with projects with third countries under the european union guarantee to the european investment bank (eib). i support such a text, which states that the eib should in particular promote investment, research and innovation projects by smes in order to support local development. i believe it is essential to help young businesses develop their innovative ideas in order to attract funding.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision of the european parliament and of the council, which aims to bring eib financing operations more closely into line with eu policies and to strengthen their coherence and complementarity with eu instruments.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr ivailo kalfin, on the european union guarantee to the european investment bank (eib) in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects outside the union for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. the report mainly proposes to refocus the geographical scope of the eib's mandate, to set a new ceiling for financing operations, to strengthen the climate change component of the mandate and to better align eib financing operations with union policies. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. under the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, the eib's mandate for its external missions will amount to eur 25 billion. the proposal aims to fix the amount of the union guarantees to the eib's own resources by means of the provisioning of the guarantee fund for external actions. with a fixed ceiling of up to eur 27 billion and an optional additional amount of eur 3 billion, the main objective of this fund is to ensure that the eib maintains its aaa rating. in approving this report, we are being asked to approve the disastrous policy of the eib. i am opposed to external funding which would be better used in the eu. i am opposed to the logic of productivist projects in a lamentable indifference to the environment, just as i am opposed to the financing techniques which encourage the privatization of public services and facilities. i vote against it.
in writing. as genetic resources represent a significant economic interest, their exploitation can cause serious environmental and ethical problems. in view of this situation, the international community and the european union have decided to take action to regulate their use and the distribution of the benefits derived from them. i voted in favour of this text because it is an important issue.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to give the union the tools it needs to combat biopiracy, through the nagoya protocol. in other words, it aims to prohibit the use of illegally acquired genetic resources and thus to ensure a fair and equitable sharing of the use of these resources. this is in line with the improvement of biodiversity conservation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will enable the union to comply with the nagoya protocol. while the question of access to resources is left to the sovereignty of the member states, it is important to provide a clear community framework on the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits derived from the use of natural resources. the text will improve the chain of use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge, but also increase transparency and legal certainty (in particular in the fight against biopiracy). i am pleased to see that the report contains clear definitions and clarifies the obligations of users of genetic resources. the latter was a priority in order not to create excessive burdens for users and authorities. all these provisions will enable the european union to secure its place and its leading role in the current international negotiations. we must rapidly achieve an ambitious multilateral mechanism that can meet the challenges of preserving biodiversity and its sustainable use.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sandrine bélier, which is the result of negotiations with the council and the commission on the 'apa' regulation. the aim of the new regulation is to transpose the nagoya protocol, which establishes a general framework for access to genetic resources (used for the development of new medicines, for example) and to combat illegal access to these resources (biopiracy). this transposition is necessary for the ratification of the protocol itself and constitutes a balanced compromise. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. - the exploitation of natural resources, including genetic resources, should be left to the sovereignty of the member states, but a european regulatory mechanism should be established to harmonise access to these resources and make it fair for all eu member states, as a result of the entry into force of the nagoya protocol. in this sense, i am particularly in favour of the improvement of legal certainty, the chain of use of genetic resources and the associated traditional knowledge, as proposed in the report.
in writing. this regulation provides for the transposition into member states of the nagoya protocol on genetic resources and the protection of biodiversity. i regret that the final text lacks safeguards against fraudulent exploitation of these resources by industry. moreover, it does not prohibit the patentability of living things and private companies from profiting from them. however, given the progress it has made in the fight against bio-piracy, i cannot oppose it. i vote for it.
in writing. the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair sharing of benefits arising from their utilization was adopted in october 2010. it is a supplementary agreement to the convention on biological diversity and concerns the conditions for access and sharing for the use of genetic resources. the text put to the vote by meps aims to implement the regulation for the application of the nagoya protocol at european level. it would, for example, improve the union's position in terms of traceability, fair sharing of benefits and compliance with international obligations. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text because it is essential that the union has a suitable regulatory framework to combat the illegal exploitation and trade in genetic resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which states that the objective of the regulation is to achieve a fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources, thereby contributing to the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use of its components, in line with the objectives of the convention on biological diversity.
in writing. three years after the adoption of the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their use, the council and the european parliament have reached agreement on the regulation implementing the protocol in the eu, which aims to combat bio-piracy. the regulation prohibits the use of illegally acquired genetic resources (animal, plant, etc.) in the eu. it obliges users (companies, scientific institutions, etc.) to verify that the acquisition of these resources and the traditional knowledge associated with them has been legal, and to share equitably the benefits derived from them on the basis of agreements negotiated with the countries and holders of origin. a european benefit-sharing fund will be established. it is part of the goal of a more inclusive and sustainable world, preserving biodiversity and its use by local populations. but there are no guarantees on exploitation by industrialists, and no controls, as the council opposed the tightening of access conditions and sanctions. i therefore abstained in the adoption of the legislation which will allow the eu to ratify this protocol. the indigenous peoples and ngos must fill the gaps through their action.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which introduces new rules on roadworthiness tests with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the werner kuhn report because the agreement reached at first reading between parliament and the council is satisfactory. it provides for heavy motorcycles to be subject to periodic technical inspection from 2022. however, member states may exempt such vehicles from the control if they have put in place other effective road safety measures, in the light of the road safety statistics of the last five years. heavy motorcycles are covered by the periodic roadworthiness test, but the specific methods of testing, areas of testing and frequency remain the responsibility of the member states. this report makes progress towards the development of common rules harmonised at european level which promote the free movement of union citizens.
in writing. this text is a step forward for road safety and environmental protection in the union in that it sets stricter standards for vehicle tracking. it consists of making the monitoring of certain vehicles more rigorous by, for example, aligning the inspection frequency of vehicles with high mileage (over 160[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]km) with that of older vehicles. for two-wheelers, only motorcycles with an engine exceeding 125cc will be subject to a mandatory technical inspection, and only from 2022. but member states will not be obliged to make these checks compulsory if they put in place effective alternative measures. this postponement of the requirement for roadworthiness tests for two-wheelers and the margin of manoeuvre granted to member states seems to me to be in the right direction, as only a small proportion of fatal accidents involving two-wheelers are due to technical failures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is part of the package of measures on technical inspection, by guaranteeing better access to information. i fully support this report, one of the measures of which is to inspect old and high-mileage vehicles every year, as is already the case with taxis and ambulances. i hope that this will reduce the number of road accidents caused by technical failures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it will improve road safety without restricting the freedom of european drivers. i am particularly pleased with the exclusion of two- and three-wheel motor vehicles from the scope of the regulation, on which i was strongly committed. heavy motorcycles will be subject to periodic technical inspection from 2022 onwards only if a member state cannot demonstrate that other effective road safety measures have been implemented. the specific methods of control and their frequency will be the responsibility of the member states. the proposal also provides that in the event of re-registration of a vehicle from one member state to another, the authorities must recognise the valid technical inspection certificate issued by the member state of origin. these common harmonised rules will facilitate the cross-border movement of european citizens.
in writing. i welcome the final adoption of the text on roadworthiness tests, which restores to member states the power to authorise a roadworthiness test for two-wheelers. it is a victory for the citizens who have been strongly mobilized, especially since the european parliament was very divided on the subject. the socialist party and the greens, in particular, were campaigning for compulsory inclusion of two-wheelers in the scope of the regulation. these technical checks will therefore remain optional in countries which at the same time pursue preventive policies and take effective road safety measures. france, for example, reduced the death rate for scooters by 46 percent and for motorcycles by 25 percent between 2000 and 2010. only 1[nbsp ]% of fatal accidents involving motorcycles are due to technical failures. it seems to me therefore inconsistent to increase the number of checks when the causes of accidents are not due to technical problems. however, two- and three-wheelers remain vulnerable on the roads and that is why it is essential that we continue to improve road infrastructure, to provide prevention and training and to punish offences such as vehicle overloading.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague werner kuhn establishing a periodic technical inspection of vehicles. the specific provisions for two and three-wheelers leave sufficient room for manoeuvre for member states by making periodic roadworthiness testing of large cylinders mandatory from 2022, unless a member state can justify other effective road safety measures, such as training of motorcyclists or adapting road infrastructure for 'vulnerable' users. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr kuhn's report because there is an increasing mobility in europe today and that is why there is a need for more harmonized legislation on technical inspections. the directive covers cars, buses, commercial vehicles and their trailers, but does not include mopeds and motorcycles. the aim is to reduce the number of deaths caused by road accidents in the eu, and to reduce emissions of pollutants due to inadequate maintenance of vehicles, by increasing the frequency and quality of periodic roadworthiness tests. the new rules require member states to use risk classification systems to identify factories where vehicles have a poor safety record and thus reduce the administrative burden for those that have a good safety record.
in writing. the commission's proposal to introduce annual technical checks for two-wheelers, regardless of the type of engine, was far too intrusive and burdensome for motorcyclists. parliament proposed a balanced solution, taking account of motorcyclists and safety requirements. it calls for technical checks every two years from 2022 and only for cylinders over 125 cubic centimetres and older than 4 years. parliament also gives the possibility to those states which so wish to push these requirements further, but without forcing others to do so. i therefore supported this text, which sets out a minimum level of security controls while significantly reducing the constraints proposed by the commission.
in writing. at the end of 2013, the lithuanian presidency of the european union committed to postpone technical checks on motorised two-wheelers until 2022 and to leave the choice to member states to exclude these vehicles from checks. today the commission and parliament want to reverse this commitment and introduce these checks as early as 2018, on the pretext that they will improve road safety. the argument is fallacious: independent studies show that technical failures are the cause of less than 1[nbsp]% of accidents involving motorcycles. in reality, it is very likely that this european change in the direction of motorized two-wheelers is being driven by large multinationals such as dekra, which see technical controls as a lucrative source of profit. in fact, dekra's influence is particularly noteworthy, since no less than three of its reports were used to write the text! in the field of technical control, only two elements must prevail: the safety of users and the fight against air pollution. the commission's and parliament's text does not improve either. i vote against it.
in writing. i was initially strongly opposed to this text, which envisaged imposing a compulsory technical inspection on two-wheelers without taking into account the particularity of these vehicles. the european parliament's vote endorses an agreement reached with the council last december which is, on the whole, a compromise in favour of two- and three-wheel vehicles. it endorses the choice of a directive rather than a regulation, as originally proposed by the european commission, and thus allows for greater flexibility in implementing the objectives pursued by the european union. the adopted directive is thus sufficiently flexible to meet both road safety objectives and concerns about the costs and constraints for two-wheelers. it will be for each member state, and therefore also for france, to decide whether or not to apply the requirement of technical inspection to two-wheelers. i voted for this compromise.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which will simplify the lives of motorists travelling in europe by mutual recognition of technical inspections. this will eventually be done without undue pressure on motorists and motorcyclists. despite the powerful lobbying of the control centers, this is a victory for the reason we are witnessing: motorcycle accidents are almost never related to a technical failure. standards must be proportionate to the context and the objective. in the end, therefore, member states will be free to decide on the methods and frequency of checks for motorcycles. this is good news for french motorcyclists, as france has already expressed its opposition to the technical inspection of motorcycles.
in writing. road safety needs to be improved in europe. too often we hear of serious accidents caused by faulty vehicles. it is important to make periodic roadworthiness tests of cars compulsory throughout the union in order to prevent such accidents as much as possible. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. i am also glad that i fought for the abolition of the compulsory technical inspection of two- and three-wheelers. it seemed to me disproportionate, given the specific nature of these vehicles, to create an obligation for all member states. motorcyclists are generally passionate about their vehicles and are aware of their vulnerability. it is true that it is important to harmonize the laws of the various countries of our union, but europe has better things to do than to legislate on problems that are not problems.
in writing. more and more vehicles are being sold in one member state and then re-registered in another. it has therefore become necessary to provide europeans with equal guarantees regarding safety and vehicle inspection points. i supported this report, but i did not want to extend this common technical inspection obligation to two- and three-wheel vehicles under european law. in france, only 1[nbsp ]% of fatal accidents involving two or three wheels are due to technical failures. i therefore felt that it was disproportionate to impose new budgetary burdens on our citizens for their vehicles, for the sake of a small profit in road safety. the text adopted therefore states that it will be for governments themselves, depending on their safety assessments and objectives, to decide whether to apply the regulation to two- or three-wheel vehicles.
in writing. two reports were put to the vote on vehicle inspection: one by werner kuhn (epp, germany) on motor vehicles and their trailers and the other by olga sehnalova (s&d, estonia) on commercial vehicles. the first involves considerable progress in improving and developing the quality of periodic technical inspections by setting up minimum european standards. the second reinforces the application of technical roadside checks which complement the periodic technical checks and take place in an unannounced manner. i think it is important to strengthen vehicle controls: the safety of users must take precedence over the frivolity of the automobile industry. i therefore voted for both reports, although i have doubts about the real interests served by the multiplication of these standards and i regret that the proposals of my group, the gue/ngl, to place the responsibility for the lack of vehicle control on employers have been systematically rejected.
in writing. this report on the technical inspection review package provides for the suspension of registration of vehicles used on public roads without a valid technical inspection certificate. the suspension shall not, when it is terminated, entail a new registration procedure. the report also provides more precise definitions of the place of registration of vehicles. i voted in favour of this report because it is in favour of simplifying the registration procedure.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to improve the application of the technical and roadworthiness tests, particularly where the technical condition of a vehicle represents a direct and immediate danger to road safety. i agree with the wish to include the proof of the last technical inspection on the registration certificate, in order to avoid duplication of documents.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive which will aim to establish a more precise definition of the place of registration of vehicles. i welcome the desire to combat fraud in connection with vehicle registration. the introduction of a mechanism for the automatic cancellation of registration in the event of proven fraud is a coercive measure which i hope will bear fruit.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague vilja savisaar-toomast, which aims to facilitate the recognition of vehicle registration documents and their transfer in the event of re-registration of the vehicle in another eu country. i am glad that this text has been adopted.
in writing. the commission's text proposes two main measures: first, suspension of registration, to remove from traffic vehicles presenting (after a technical inspection) a danger to road safety and, second, automatic cancellation of registration, in the case of re-registration abroad or for vehicles declared 'out of use'. i am in general in favour of these provisions, which are common sense measures and technical tools to improve road safety. however, this text is based on another text from the commission (periodic technical inspection of motor vehicles), which i opposed. by validating one, i would validate the other. in that case, i vote against.
in writing. this report is the most technical and administrative of the technical control package. it intends to include a reference to roadworthiness tests in vehicle registration documents in order to reduce the number of documents drivers must carry. it also gives the owner of a vehicle the possibility of cancelling its registration in order to be exempt from any future liability. the report also obliges the member states to mutually recognise the validity of a technical check in the event of a change of registration. i welcome this administrative simplification and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which amends the existing requirements on vehicle registration documents. the text provides for more precise definitions of the place of registration of vehicles and the suspension and cancellation of registrations.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all vehicles. the report is in line with the reports by werner kuhn (epp, germany) and olga shenalova (s&d, czech republic), which deal with periodic road and technical inspections of different types of vehicles. here too, the question is to strengthen the safety of users by improving the application of technical control systems, in particular by removing the most dangerous vehicles. the main issue in this report is the registration of vehicles in the european union, with, amongst others, the issue of re-registrations in another member state. more practical, the proof of the last roadworthiness test will now have to appear on the registration certificate. i will, however, remain very vigilant about the introduction of these new requirements, particularly as regards the introduction of computer files to ensure better monitoring of technical controls. the technique has a few good reversals.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which introduces new rules on roadworthiness tests with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection. the case of commercial vehicles is particular because there is a requirement to check the technical condition of these vehicles between periodic checks by means of technical roadside checks, which are unannounced and carried out on the spot for commercial vehicles.
in writing. to meet its target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2020, the union must take technical measures relating to the conformity of vehicles and thus their safety. the text makes the technical checks on commercial vehicles more stringent. the introduction of a reward system for companies that choose eco-sustainable choices in their light commercial vehicles should therefore help to empower companies in the move towards low-carbon mobility.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation which aims to reduce significantly the number of road fatalities by introducing a more drastic system of technical inspection. i also support the desire to improve the training of the inspectors responsible for road controls, because they are the first to take action on road safety. i hope that all these measures will have a positive effect on european drivers.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague olga[nbsp]sehnalova on technical road checks for commercial vehicles. the report establishes a risk classification system for inspections, which allows for closer scrutiny of commercial vehicles that have had poor results in previous inspections compared to companies with a positive history. in order not to overload the system, light commercial vehicles (less than 3.5 tonnes) were excluded from the scope of application, although the commission was instructed to present a study within 6 years on the appropriateness of their inclusion in the text. i welcome the adoption of this text by a large majority.
in writing. i obviously share the commission's two objectives of improving road safety and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. in this context, technical roadside checks are essential. they are an effective means of detecting anomalies which may be dangerous, especially for the safety of users. however, one point raises questions: no less than three reports from the german multinational dekra, which owns many technical control centres, were used to draft the text. the company is particularly interested in one of the points in the text in particular: road checks which then refer to technical inspection centres. the causal link between these checks and the improvement of road safety or the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is not clearly justified in the text. i therefore remain doubtful as to the effectiveness of these measures. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to introduce a risk classification system to focus controls on vehicles operated by companies with a poor safety record, and thus to reward companies that, in the operation of their vehicles, pay attention to safety and environmental protection.
in writing. two reports were put to the vote on vehicle inspection: one by werner kuhn (epp, germany) on motor vehicles and their trailers and the other by olga sehnalova (s&d, estonia) on commercial vehicles. the first involves considerable progress in improving and developing the quality of periodic technical inspections by setting up minimum european standards. the second reinforces the application of technical roadside checks which complement the periodic technical checks and take place in an unannounced manner. i think it is important to strengthen vehicle controls: the safety of users must take precedence over the frivolity of the automobile industry. i therefore voted for both reports, although i have doubts about the real interests served by the multiplication of these standards and i regret that the proposals of my group, the gue/ngl, to place the responsibility for the lack of vehicle control on employers have been systematically rejected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which simplifies and lighten the procedures, and thus the cost, for the member states, concerning rail transport statistics.
in writing. this text optimises the efficiency of european rail transport statistics. it provides for a reduction in the time taken for the dissemination of data on this type of transport. i particularly welcome the incorporation of new measured variables in the data on cross-border links, which goes hand in hand with the establishment of a european rail network. of course, the main objective of this text remains to strengthen railway safety in the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation which will update, simplify and optimise the existing legal framework for european rail transport statistics. i hope that these efforts will help to reduce the administrative burden in this area.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague michael cramer on rail transport statistics, which simplifies the existing regulations in this field, thereby reducing the burden of data collection on member states. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. to improve european statistics on rail transport, the commission has had the good idea of wanting to abolish the task entrusted to eurostat of collecting data on railway accidents! we are dreaming! what's her excuse? this data is already collected by another structure. since when is it a problem to have multiple statistical sources on the same data? on the contrary, it is the assurance of reliable statistics when the information is overlapping! the cramer report, fortunately, is concerned with this aberration, probably intended to save money. the problem is that it does not go far enough and does not question the purpose of these statistics. the commission explains that 'the main objective of eu transport policy is to establish an internal market by developing common policies to promote a high level of competitiveness'. european statistics are designed to meet this objective. this is a bad logic: they must give priority to data that are important for user safety and the ecological transition in transport (by integrating, for example, railway statistics). that's not the case here. i vote against it.
in writing. this report endorses the commission's intention to simplify the rules for the production of rail transport statistics. it considers, however, that the data collection should be further extended to railway infrastructure and stresses the need to integrate more measured variables into passenger transport statistics, in particular with regard to cross-border links. the report also considers that eurostat should not be relieved of its obligation to collect accident data, but that cooperation with the european railway agency should be ensured. since the strengthening of cooperation and the simplification of the production of statistics will ultimately lead to a greater safety on the railways, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to update, simplify and optimise the existing legal framework for european rail transport statistics and bring it into line with the new institutional context. in the future, we will have detailed statistics on rail freight and passenger transport and information on intermodality to enable us to monitor and develop the common transport policy.
in writing. this is a directive to facilitate the adoption of electronic invoicing in public procurement. due to differences between countries, the adoption of electronic invoicing remains very limited in europe, with electronic invoices representing only between 4 and 15%[nbsp] of all invoices exchanged. the text therefore provides for the development of a new european standard for electronic invoicing. i voted in favour of this because i think it is good for our businesses.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the agreement reached with the council is satisfactory. it will enable the digital single market to be achieved by setting up an infrastructure for electronic public procurement in europe. i am satisfied with the main elements of the european standard, which are the information for the seller and the buyer, the delivery details, the payment instructions. the european electricity billing standard is based on technological neutrality, the protection of personal data and the needs of smes. it will enable interoperability between the different national invoicing systems.
in writing. the aim of this text is to facilitate the adoption of electronic invoicing in public procurement in order to promote the use of this online payment method. the text provides for a single european standard specifying the key elements of online invoices: the name of the customer and the seller, the vat number, the nature of the goods supplied or the services provided. this will, in particular, reduce excessive administrative burdens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive, so the purpose is to complete the recent legislative package on public procurement and concessions adopted in plenary last january. as such, member states will be required to ensure that contracting authorities and contracting entities do not refuse to receive electronic invoices which comply with the european standard, which i can only agree with.
in writing. i supported this agreement, which was reached in the trilogue following the interinstitutional negotiations (european parliament, commission, council) on the proposal for a directive on electronic invoicing in public procurement and concessions. the text represents a fundamental step forward for both public authorities and businesses by encouraging the dematerialization of invoices in the context of public procurement procedures or the award of concession contracts. the fragmentation of the internal market caused by the proliferation of national standards and the lack of interoperability of these standards poses real problems for all the actors concerned: complexity of procedures, excessive administrative burdens, additional costs. many players are now discouraged by these barriers to cross-border trade. the text adopted by the european parliament will pave the way for a process of developing a european standard on electronic invoicing to address these concerns that are affecting stakeholders and the internal market.
in writing. this proposal is essentially technical. it aims to ensure interoperability in electronic invoicing in public procurement. the proposal encourages electronic invoicing and proposes a european standard, but behind the ecological goal of zero paper, the main aim is to remove barriers to the internal market and to promote competition. i abstain
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to complete the digital single market by setting up an infrastructure for end-to-end electronic procurement in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it represents a major step forward for both public authorities and businesses. the encouragement of the dematerialization of invoices in the context of public procurement or concession award procedures will facilitate procedures, reduce excessive administrative burdens and, ultimately, further increase the coherence of the single market. however, the aim is not to harmonize the billing elements entirely, only the system; therefore, contracting authorities should not experience any major disruption in their organisation.
in writing. agriculture is a key economic sector for the european union. the common agricultural policy therefore provides for regular monitoring of farm structures and agricultural production methods, in particular by means of surveys. as these studies are necessary for appropriate policy action in this area, i have supported this report.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to continue the european union's support for the investigations into the structure of agricultural holdings and production methods by providing a financial envelope for the period 2014-2018. the fact that these surveys can be carried out is necessary to maintain a certain degree of monitoring of the common agricultural policy and to be able, in time, to evaluate it.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague paolo de castro, which aims to ensure continued support for the implementation and monitoring of the common agricultural policy by extending financial assistance to member states for the collection of farm data, which is essential for analysing trends in the sector in the european union. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. with this text, the european parliament and the commission continue to provide financial support to member states for the collection of data on the structure of agricultural holdings. knowledge of the agricultural sector is necessary and valuable, but this statistical tool is mainly used for the implementation of the common agricultural policy (cap). i disagree with the new cap guidelines and the reduced budget. however, this tool can be useful for knowledge. i'm not going to.
in writing. the common agricultural policy has been reformed and is now better able to meet the current needs of farmers. in order for the system to function optimally, it is important to collect data on agricultural holdings and analyse trends in the sector. the cap will only be fully operational if the european union and the member states have a very precise set of information at their disposal. i am glad to have voted in favour of this legislation, which proposes to extend financial support to member states for the continued collection of data on agricultural holdings. we need a common agricultural policy to enable the european union to be fully competitive with the rest of the world.
in writing. the report is primarily technical in nature and aims to align the rules on the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. i voted in favour of this report because it does not present any difficulties.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on alignment with the treaty of lisbon, which determines the trade regime applicable to certain goods. it is also a question of determining which of the current commission competences become delegated acts or implementing acts. this report shall ensure that imports comply with minimum quality and environmental standards of the union as set out in the single cmo. it ensures that export refunds are used only in exceptional cases, such as market disturbances.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to adapt the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products to the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. i particularly approve of the introduction of a provision prohibiting the importation of products which do not comply with european legislation on food safety. i also think it is legitimate to tax products which do not comply with european environmental or animal welfare standards. it is important to enforce our health and environmental standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation which aims to adapt to the treaty of lisbon the requirements resulting from the processing of agricultural products. today, more clarification is being provided since the exchange regime for ovalbumin and lactalbumin should correspond to that established for eggs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague paolo de castro on goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products. the main objective of this report is to determine the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products, with a view to implementing new provisions of the treaty of lisbon concerning the distinction between the powers of the european commission to adopt delegated and implementing acts. i welcome the broad adoption of this report.
in writing. once again, parliament has to whine to defend its meagre rights against the commission, which is constantly seeking to overstep the rights it has been granted in implementing acts under the lisbon treaty. in substance, the commission proposal, like the parliament's report, is in keeping with the liberal, productivist and free-trade logic of the european union. the main purpose of this text is to adapt the legislation to the lisbon treaty, the new cap and the european budget 2014-2020. i voted against these three texts, so i must vote against this one.
in writing. my colleague mr marinescu presents an own-initiative report on the european investment bank and its annual report 2012. the report calls on the eib to maintain its objectives and to mobilise eur 180 billion for additional investment in the union for the period 2013-15. i agree with this report because the eib is designed to inject money into the real economy. i voted yes.
in writing. the rapporteur's work highlighted the recurrent lack of transparency in the management of eib funds, without denying the usefulness of this structure in the financing of key projects.
in writing. investment must be at the heart of the union's competitiveness policy. i fully support one of the priorities of directing investment towards public-private partnerships and smes. it is worth recalling that smes are the engines of growth and employment in europe. it is therefore of particular interest to facilitate their access to finance. i therefore support the eib's objective of providing over eur 19 billion in loans to smes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marian-jean marinescu on the 2012 annual report of the european investment bank (eib). the report approves the capital increase for the eib and asks it to maintain the targets for its additional activities. the report also makes recommendations on support for smes, cooperation with other financial institutions, governance mechanisms and support for the eu's foreign policy objectives. i welcome the broad adoption of this report.
in writing. the eib is an institution whose operations are opaque. it finances projects which have no connection with the needs of the ecological transition and which do not meet social criteria. we're being asked to approve his activity report. while the report does contain some criticisms of the way the eib operates, the rest is unsurprising. the report praises public-private partnerships and the pact for growth and jobs. some references to the need for investment in renewable energy are well-admitted as good intentions and wishful thinking. i vote against it.
in writing. the european investment bank is the european union's engine of growth and job creation. it allows investment in eu projects to revitalise the european economy. in these times of crisis, we particularly need the european investment bank to restore growth throughout europe. its budget has been increased by 10 billion euros. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report, particularly for what it brings in terms of investment in smes. it is undeniable that by helping these types of enterprises we will be able to increase europe's innovation potential and guarantee the competitiveness of european enterprises in the world.
in writing. the european investment bank (eib) is primarily a borrower on the financial markets to finance projects within the european union, but also outside it. it is worth saying that this does not really fit the model of what we are advocating both within the union and with the southern countries, since it contributes to increasing the debt of the countries concerned, which they do not really need. this report is the eib's annual report to the european parliament. the eib should undoubtedly step up its activities to finance medium- and long-term investments, but it should do so in a different way. but it is worse because today, far from going in that direction and helping the countries that need it most, it is trying to reduce the volume of loans, allegedly to protect its financial strength. in short, a pure liberal logic. an annual activity report is more a measure of the bank's management than of its orientations. i therefore did not want to vote against this report because it is not the framework for changing the bank's actions. i therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. the european parliament rejected this annual report by mrs zuber (gue - far left) on gender equality in the european union in 2012. having done the same, i want to explain such a choice. the text was repetitive, incoherent, and alien to communist ideology, making austerity the reason for all the ills of women in the european union. it did not serve the interests of women, which i have been defending for years as president of the women in the centre association. we had proposed an alternative text which emphasized the needs of women, without counterproductive dogmatism. it included violence against them and measures to improve their economic independence. the left-wing rapporteur did not want to compromise, when it was precisely women who deserved to be put aside for petty calculations and political agendas two months before the elections.
in writing. i can only deplore the rejection of this report, which in 2014 was intended to underline that equality between women and men in europe remains highly topical. once again, a backward composite majority has been able to undermine the difficult but inevitable achievement of equal treatment for women and men.
in writing. i am outraged by the attacks on me in relation to this report. if my initial vote indicated an abstention, this was immediately reported to parliament's services and corrected in the minutes. my votes throughout this parliament, my commitment to the european parliamentary forum on population and development (epf), which champions the cause of women around the world, and my unwavering support for the cause of women in general over the years, are proof of this.
in writing. i regret that no text has been adopted on this crucial issue of gender equality in europe. the text that was voted on was unfortunately used by the left and was far too ideological. the report has been diverted from its original purpose to a criticism of the austerity measures and their impact on employment. it is deplorable that the principle of equality between women and men is used as a pretext to try to pass too many unacceptable provisions. i could not, for these reasons, support such a text. my group, the epp, has put forward a balanced alternative resolution, which is really focused on the issues of equality between men and women. i regret that this proposal has not been able to secure a majority in the european parliament.
in writing. i voted against this report because it takes an ideological approach to gender equality, which does not respect the principle of subsidiarity. i was particularly concerned about the introduction of the 'gender' theory in this report. parental authority is exercised, and it is up to the parents to decide what values they want to impart to their children. i regret that the replacement resolution tabled by the epp, which presented a more effective approach to combating gender-based discrimination, was not adopted. young women in particular are subject not only to difficulties in accessing the labour market but also to occupational instability. the resolution therefore focused on three main themes: economic independence and equal pay, equality in decision-making and violence against women. the task is all the more difficult as women must manage to reconcile work and private life, since they continue to do most of the housework. a few days after international women's day, the report is bitter. we must act urgently to correct the glaring inequalities that still exist in our society.
in writing. the right to equality between men and women is one of the key values of modern societies, and yet we see that it is still not an acquired right in europe, as shown by the recent spanish law restricting the right to abortion. the right of any woman to control her own body should no longer be a matter of debate. the arguments that sweep away a common european position under the pretext of national sovereignty are purely fallacious. the report was essential to underline the urgency of action at european level, as the fundamental rights agency has just indicated that one in three women have already been subject to physical or sexual violence. it is to reaffirm that violence against women is unacceptable and that we must constantly combat it that i voted for the zuber report. the report called on the member states to ensure that the fundamental principle of equal pay for equal work between women and men is respected and to prohibit forced resignations in the event of maternity, and advocated the fight against gender stereotypes. this equality must be a reality and not just a wish.
in writing. it is regrettable that a subject which deserves to be treated seriously and objectively has been exploited by the far left, which has reduced this reflection to an ideological stance on the economic policy of the european union and its support measures towards greece, portugal and the other member states that have requested financial assistance. it's not the place or the subject. here we should have focused on access to employment, pay, equal treatment in decision-making, career development, health, discrimination and violence against women. these are the very issues raised by the epp group in its alternative resolution and which the far left has not been able to answer. citizens are asking the european parliament to take up issues that affect them directly, such as employment and purchasing power. but some political groups continue to turn their backs on the real issues in order to give moral lessons and, as always, forget to propose concrete solutions.
in writing. i voted against the report by my colleague inês cristina zuber, which officially dealt with equality between women and men in 2012. despite its title, this report, which has no legislative value, has unfortunately been used as a pretext for an ideological and partisan pamphlet dealing with issues unrelated to the subject. it is tragic that the european parliament is embarrassed by a chatterbox text that is full of common ground and anti-globalist slogans, and that by the same token distracts from the important subject of equality between women and men, while the european union is on the verge of bankruptcy. my group, the epp, has tried to make up for this ideological text by a replacement resolution which purges the report of the aberrations that have soiled it. this much more serious and substantive proposal was unfortunately rejected, leaving us no choice but to vote on the report as proposed. i therefore welcome the rejection of this report by 289 votes to 298 with 87 abstentions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ines zuber report on equality between women and men in the union in 2012. this text covers all current policies on the issue of gender inequality: equal pay, violence, prostitution, the fight against gender stereotypes, equality in decision-making. in a context where women's rights are in a worrying decline in europe, it is important to defend our values and make our progressive voice heard against conservatives and extremists of all stripes. that is why i gave my full support to this text in the femm committee and in plenary. the right-wing politicians, who were in favour of a liberal europe, were unwilling to denounce the consequences of austerity policies on equality between women and men. increasingly conservative, they oppose any mention of sexual and reproductive rights or access to ivf, as was shown by the very strong mobilization against the estrela report a few months ago.
in writing. every year, the commission issues a report on gender equality in the union. its latest report on progress in gender equality in 2012 looks at the economic aspects of the inequalities found. the report by my colleague, mrs ines zuber, pays particular attention to the consequences of austerity policies, even though the epp's amendments seek to weaken this observation. the report also proposes 80 concrete measures on various subjects: unemployment, pensions, the fight against stereotypes, equal pay, etc. i am voting in favour of this report to support the progressive approach in the face of reactionary forces.
in writing. i voted against the report on gender equality in 2012 because the fight for gender equality would have deserved better than a web of ideological considerations! the text put to the vote at this plenary session was extremely repetitive and very much centred on the economic situation in certain member states. the epp proposed a balanced replacement resolution dealing with the essential and urgent issues of gender equality in the european union: issues of economic independence and equal pay; issues of equal treatment in decision-making processes, both political and economic; violence against women; women's health. it is regrettable that the rapporteur did not seize this opportunity and did not build consensus on this very unifying subject by confining herself to partisan positions. women have nothing to gain from these ideological clashes. they deserve better! only together can we advance the cause of women.
in writing. the european commission publishes an annual report on equality between men and women in the union. for 2012, the focus was on economic independence during the crisis, wage inequalities, gender-based violence and equality in decision-making processes. this own-initiative report proposes concrete measures to combat these different forms of inequality. despite the many amendments tabled by the right, the very essence of the report was preserved: the impact of the crisis and austerity measures on the situation of women was strongly denounced. i have supported this report. i am very sorry, however, that it was finally rejected and that it exposes the position of those who opposed it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which promotes a value which i consider to be fundamental: equality between men and women. it was necessary to emphasize our commitment to combating wage discrimination and to the right to be both a mother and a worker. unfortunately, the conservatives opposed this text, stressing that what may seem obvious must always be defended.
in writing. the european parliament has always fought for equal treatment for men and women. i'm one of those who will fight this fight to the end. in this context, i cannot imagine that a subject of such great importance, which directly affects the lives of our fellow citizens, should be manipulated for political purposes. the report uses this issue to criticise the austerity measures adopted during the crisis. gender equality is beyond the crisis and must be treated as such. the left behaved irresponsibly in this case by using a matter of universal importance to draft a text that could not be supported by the right. the epp has by no means voted against equality between men and women as its opponents imply, but against the political manipulation of the issue. the group also proposed an alternative resolution which focused solely on the place of women in society. i voted against this report and against the manipulation of equality between women and men for political purposes.
in writing. i did not support this report when it was voted in plenary because it does not respect simple procedural criteria, which answer the question of the distribution of powers. the european parliament should have taken a decision on the commission's annual report on equality between women and men. under pressure from left-wing parliamentarians, it became, as amendments were tabled, a manifesto against austerity measures and the consequences of the crisis, which were seen as particularly affecting women. in opposing this report, i have therefore chosen to apply strict respect for procedures, the distribution of powers and the principle of subsidiarity, without questioning my strong commitment to the effective application of the principle of equality between men and women. i therefore voted in favour of amendment no 1, which included a more objective text and allowed for a separate examination of each level of decision and jurisdiction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the zuber report on gender equality. this report, addressed to the commission and the council, recalled the principle of equal treatment between men and women. he called for equal pay for equal work to be respected. it called for girls to be encouraged to take up future careers in which women were underrepresented, and for access to these careers and to continuing training to be facilitated. it promoted job security in the event of maternity. the report called for measures to combat gender stereotypes. he wanted equality in decision-making. he spoke out against violence against women. yes, but there it is, this report was rejected by only 9 votes. in the front lines, the french mps from the ump and the fn, their retrograde positions are not a surprise. much more incomprehensible is the abstention of a number of french green and liberal members. this vote is outrageous at a time when parliament's positions on these issues are being exploited by certain governments, as in spain. unfortunately, this vote reminds us that the fight for gender equality is not a fight of the past.
in writing. - although latvia was ranked in the top 12 in the 2013 world gender, economic, legal and social inequality index, which shows that latvia has the best gender equality situation among the baltic states, problems in latvia and the eu as a whole still exist. the european parliament therefore reviews progress and actions in this area every year. the gender equality report 2012[nbsp ], analysing statistical data, points to a number of problems, including the fact that the employment rate of men still significantly exceeds that of women, as well as the fact that entrepreneurship is still dominated by men. the report also includes important proposals to promote women's employment, such as the creation of a network of women entrepreneurs to find common and supportive solutions to reconcile work and family life. at the same time, the report contains a number of conflicting proposals, as well as those that would place undue burdens on the eu and member states' budgets. furthermore, i believe that national and eu policies should be oriented towards preserving traditional family values, and therefore it is unacceptable to include same-sex marriage in the definition of family. on the other hand, the incorporation of gender quota systems into legislation would not be the right solution to promote women's representation in politics. i agree that reconciliation of family and professional life must be addressed in order to motivate women to integrate into the labour market, but this must be done primarily by stimulating member states' economic growth by promoting entrepreneurship and job creation. in contrast, several of the proposals in the report would require a substantial increase in the social budget at a time when member states, despite a slow recovery, are still falling short of pre-crisis budgets.
in writing. three days after the day of struggles for women's rights, a shameful vote took place in the european parliament on the report by inès zuber, my colleague from the portuguese communist party, member of the gue/ngl, on equality between men and women. the report on gender equality in the eu in 2012 was rejected by 298 meps. this report takes stock of the inequalities between women and men in the union: unemployment and precarious work, economic dependence, the feminization of poverty, especially among the elderly, pension rights, violence against women, prostitution, the pay gap, multiple discrimination and the fight against gender stereotypes. in a context of reactionary drift, this is the second time that the european right, this time hiding behind the parliament's internal rules, has renounced its previous votes on women's rights under pressure from the far right. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the vote corrections made later will not change anything: a vote proclaimed in the european parliament cannot be changed.
in writing. by voting for this text, the european parliament calls on the european commission to strengthen the european system of financial supervision (esfs). i believe that the european union needs to strengthen its strong and coordinated surveillance system to prevent potential financial instability. only then will we be able to restore the confidence of citizens and investors in the financial markets. it is therefore particularly important to strengthen the independence of the european supervisory authorities (esas), in particular from the european commission, by establishing formal procedures and reporting obligations on the acts it provides.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sven giegold containing recommendations to the commission on the revision of the european system of financial supervision (esfs). the recommendations focus on the governance of the european supervisory authorities (esas) and the european systemic risk board (esrb), as well as on cooperation in the field of supervision. the report also calls on the commission to submit legislative proposals to parliament by 1[nbsp ]july[nbsp ]2014 to revise the regulations governing the esfs. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. this report takes stock of the european financial surveillance system put in place in 2009 to prevent a new financial crisis like the one in 2008. the fact that the mechanisms in place are inadequate is a fair observation, and the criticisms of the commission's decision-making role in these bodies are well founded. however, the proposed adjustments do not in any way solve the problems posed by the excessive financialization of the economy. as always, the ultimate objective is to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and the stability of financial markets. for me, it's about governing against the banks, not with them. i vote against it.
in writing. the 2008 crisis highlighted the very unreliable nature of the financial market. the european union immediately took steps to restructure the financial system to avoid the current crisis. the european system of financial supervision is one of these measures. it ensures the stability of the european financial system. the union has not stopped there, however, and has put in place other crisis prevention and resolution mechanisms such as the single resolution mechanism. the union's objective is to harmonise these different instruments in order to protect citizens from the financial sector's abuses. the harmonization of the financial policies of the member states is also of considerable importance. let us remember that the crisis is a sovereign debt crisis. i am convinced that with the measures taken by the union, we will never again experience such a serious economic and financial crisis. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the various points which need to be improved in order to make the european financial surveillance system fully operational.
in writing. in response to the financial crisis, europe established three financial supervisory authorities for banks, financial markets and macro-prudential policies in 2010. the time has now come to strengthen the mandate of these three authorities, as monitoring and risk management are not yet optimal. in particular, they must be given the capacity to initiate proceedings and take decisions autonomously, as is done in the united states. the european parliament therefore calls for an immediate revision of the regulations on financial supervision, based on experience and respecting fundamental rights and the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. this is an own-initiative report which forms part of the reform of the access to documents directive, which has been under negotiation since 2008. this is a sensitive subject, especially since access to documents should not be confused with access to the procedure. that is precisely what the rapporteur is doing. i therefore voted in favour of an alternative resolution proposed by the epp, but against the report by mrs [nbsp] int veld.
in writing. i voted against the report by my colleague sophia in 't veld on public access to documents for the years 2011 to 2013, which seriously confuses the notions of access to documents and access to procedure and sacrifices the rules of the right to privacy in the name of transparency, in defiance of european standards in this field. i therefore regret the adoption of this text.
in writing. the report finds that the european institutions do not respect the legislation on access to documents. in order to enable citizens to understand fully the european issues, the report makes a number of recommendations, including that the commission should present a report on the advisory group of stakeholders on the transatlantic single market, an amendment by our group. even if we do not share mrs in't veld's political views, we share with her this time a concern which is essential for the rehabilitation of popular sovereignty: the right to know the reasons for the choices made in the name of the european peoples and of the so-called democratic states. i regret that the report does not go far enough with regard to the obscure trilogues, informal and closed-door meetings between the commission, the council and parliament. they should be severely restricted or made public in order to break the current reign of irresponsibility of the union institutions in these procedures. the report also makes no mention of access to documents in one's own language, which is essential if we want more democracy. nevertheless, this report is a step in the right direction. it accompanies our denunciation of this draft treaty. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls on the european institutions to develop a more proactive approach to transparency by making as many categories of documents as possible, including internal administrative documents, publicly available on their websites. this approach will help to ensure effective transparency and to prevent unnecessary litigation which can cause unnecessary costs and burdens for both the institutions and the european citizens.
in writing. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon gave binding force to the charter of fundamental rights and its articles 41 on good administration and 42 on the right of access to documents of the union institutions. with regard to the 2001 eu legislation on public access to documents, the court of justice has consistently found that the eu institutions too often abuse exceptional measures without a valid reason. the resolution therefore calls in particular for the 2001 regulation to be reviewed and for the protection of personal data not to be used as a pretext for refusing certain information. i share these views, but i abstained because this resolution is far from meeting the challenges of better democratic functioning, particularly with regard to access to documents in one's own language, transparency on trilogues and, above all, information on international and free trade agreements. the european parliament rightly denounces the practices of the commission and the council, but it must also sweep up its own door and live up to its responsibilities by fully assuming its role as co-legislator and rejecting certain council positions. this is how the democratic deficit of the union can perhaps begin to be filled.
in writing. this report reviews the work of the committee on petitions during this parliamentary term and describes its prospects in the new european parliament. since 2009, the european parliament has registered some 10 000 petitions, of which about 60% have been declared admissible, i.e. falling within the european union's field of activity. in addition, in 2013, the peti committee was responsible for organising the election of the new european ombudsman, emily o'reilly. the report calls for the committee on petitions to pay greater attention in future to the implementation of eu law in the member states and for more time to be devoted to petitions submitted by eu citizens in plenary. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the increase of almost 45%[nbsp ] of petitions received in 2013 compared to 2012 is evidence of a desire for greater involvement of citizens in the eu decision-making process. this is the objective of this text. it rightly encourages greater involvement of the european parliament in the network of ombudsmen for europe. finally, i particularly welcome the idea of closer cooperation between the committee on petitions and the member states, in particular with the committees on petitions of the national parliaments.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jarosław leszek wałęsa on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2013. the report recognises the essential role played by the committee on petitions in defending and promoting the rights of citizens and residents of the european union. the report also calls for greater cooperation and dialogue with the parliaments and governments of the member states in order to ensure, in particular, better transposition of european law at national level. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the right of petition has deteriorated since its inception. firstly, it needs one million signatures instead of two, and secondly, its content must be in accordance with the treaties. hypocrisy: under the guise of giving citizens more power through petitions, the real aim is to strengthen the control of the commission, a democratically illegitimate body, over the member states and to speed up the implementation of 'internal market law', i.e. the liberalisation of services and austerity. given the economic, social and political context, we believe that genuine democratic improvements are not to be found in the marginal improvement of a right of petition which has not so far proved its effectiveness against austerity and rising unemployment, among other things, in europe. that is why i am voting against this resolution.
in writing. the european union has often been accused of being a technocratic structure devoid of democratic meaning. it has succeeded in responding to the need of european citizens to participate actively in the european decision-making process. the introduction of the citizens' initiative in 2009 by the lisbon treaty and the strengthening of the powers of the european parliament, directly elected by the people, are significant steps forward in democracy. the report of the committee on petitions shows that this tool is increasingly being used by european citizens who now have the opportunity to approach the european institutions directly. however, some areas need improvement, such as the provision of information to citizens and the system for analysing petitions. i am glad i voted in favour of this report. the european union is committed to democracy within itself and in the wider world. i would fight tirelessly to make sure that our citizens understand that the union is working for them and with them.
in writing. the horticultural sector, fruit and vegetables and ornamental flowers, was not affected by the cap reform. this report was therefore intended to lay the foundations for a future reform of this sector. but it is not. that is why i voted against it. it does not sufficiently emphasise employment, whereas this sector has potential for the vocational integration of young people. it does not sufficiently emphasize the need for producers to be organized collectively in the face of mass distribution and to meet the growing consumer demand for products from local and short-distance markets. he does not mention the health benefits of eating vegetables and healthy foods. it conceals the problems of social dumping which may exist in this sector which supplies labour and seasonal work. focusing on competitiveness only linked to intensive production development, it does not support the evolution of production models towards more sustainability and innovation. on the contrary, it supports the use of plant protection products and new biotechnologies. these imperfections will have to be corrected in the next reform of the fruit and vegetable sector which the new parliament will initiate.
in writing. this own-initiative report provides a useful overview of the issues facing the european horticultural sector, and i voted in favour of this text. however, i would like to point out that following an error at the time of voting, i had to make a vote correction on paragraph 25 to reaffirm my strong opposition to the unbridled use of neonicotinoids, which scientific studies show to be at least one factor contributing to the gradual disappearance of bees in the wild. every effort should be made to protect bees. the partial ban on these neonicotinoids should be implemented in order to test its impact on bee colonies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mc[nbsp]intyre report on growth strategies for the horticulture sector in europe. this sector accounts for 18% of the total value of agricultural production in the european union but uses only 3% of the area under cultivation. horticulturalists face major challenges: adapting to the effects of climate change and feeding the growing population, while limiting the impact on the environment. the report encourages producers to make better use of business advice and support services. in this respect, the commission must ensure easy access to these services. the report stresses that reducing regulatory barriers for horticultural companies is essential to maintain their competitiveness.
in writing. horticulture accounts for 18%[nbsp ] of the total value of agricultural production in the european union. the text is therefore logically aimed at proposing measures to modernise this sector. for example, it rightly encourages joint investment in research into new varieties and production techniques, as well as in water management. the stated aim is to ensure the diversity and food security of the union and to help support employment in the horticultural sector. this will only be possible by taking into account good practice in sustainable development.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to give priority to horticulture through funding and the search for new opportunities. i also share the desire to include 'protected crops' in horizon 2020 proposals to stimulate innovation in areas such as sustainable crop protection or sustainable use of water and nutrients.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which sets new objectives for the growth of the horticultural sector in europe. we need to help the horticultural sector to meet the challenges it faces such as adaptation to climate change and the economic crisis. it is crucial to have a strategy for the future of this sector. producers are currently working in a context of declining profitability and rising prices. it is therefore necessary to encourage investment to finance research and development programmes. on the other hand, the horticultural sector, in conjunction with the research community, must focus on improving the skills of the existing workforce.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague anthea mcintyre on the future of the horticultural sector in europe, which has been particularly affected by the economic crisis, because of the market structure, largely composed of small farms with low margins. the text proposes a number of ways to increase the level of investment and competitiveness, whether through producer organisations, supply chain codes of conduct or research programmes (in the field of water and energy efficiency for example). i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the limitations and dangers of this text will not be hidden by a few good intentions. as in all agriculture, the unbridled search for 'competitiveness' and the race to export are destroying small farms. they promote productivity. it is no coincidence that this text supports genetic engineering in horticulture. we are a long way from the necessary ecological planning that i advocate to go towards extensive, farming and horticulture that respects the ecosystem. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this text which does not sufficiently emphasise the employment and role of the many small and mediumsized horticultural enterprises, particularly in terms of the potential for the vocational integration of many young people throughout europe. it also conceals the problems of social dumping which may exist in a sector with seasonal activity and many jobs. this approach will have to be changed in the context of the reform of the fruit and vegetables sector, which should be launched soon, but with a new european parliament.
in writing. the horticultural sector has been particularly affected by the crisis. the fruit and vegetable sector is made up of small farms and producers are facing declining profitability and rising producer prices. in addition, the sector faces many challenges such as adapting to the consequences of climate change and supplying a growing global population. i am glad that i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. this will help horticultural producers by increasing confidence in supply chains and providing direct financial support. in a europe in perpetual change, faced with ever-increasing challenges, we must support all those parts of the european economy which can make the union more competitive with the rest of the world.
in writing. i opposed this totally unbalanced report. the liberals and the conservatives have agreed to present a partial report, which defends only highly concentrated and highly industrialized production. this text also poses significant dangers for europeans. the right voted amendments supporting the use of endocrine disruptors within an acceptable risk framework. it is unfortunate that liberals and conservatives are sacrificing the health of consumers and producers on the altar of profit. the report also expresses the wish to allow certain forms of genetically modified organisms in food. it also does not deal adequately with small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the heart of european horticulture. it also sees horticulture as a sector that is isolated from others, unconnected with food and public health, and which denies its role as a job creator. finally, it is an outdated approach, refusing to deal sufficiently with local markets and short-distance services.
in writing. the role of horticulture is not well known and it is good that the european parliament should take up this issue, given its importance in agricultural production, be it vegetable, fruit or flower production. this is particularly true in the constituency in which i am elected. this resolution does not, however, spare us any of the pitfalls of intensive farming as it has been conceived and practised in the union for decades. it called for the horticultural sector to be made more competitive on the world market, for producers to have easier access to third country markets, for efforts to be stepped up to help the sector, and for cisgenesis, a gmo technique involving less genetic modification than mutagenesis, and the use of chemicals, to be allowed. it also highlights the high seasonal labour requirements and the need for effective programmes to provide the labour needed by the sector at key times of the year. one of the few positive points is to emphasise its local and territorial anchoring and its contribution to the local economy. i therefore voted against this own-initiative report by the right and the liberals in the european parliament, in total disagreement with this approach of productivism and economic liberalism which is incompatible with sustainable and supportive horticulture.
in writing. although several international conventions have created an international framework for the absolute prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, torture is still practiced worldwide. i voted in favour of this text because it allows the european union to strengthen its measures to eradicate torture in its action plan for democracy and human rights and by updating its overall guidelines on the matter.
in writing. in the light of recent events, it seemed necessary for the european parliament to reiterate that the use of torture cannot be tolerated.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which reaffirms our position to end torture worldwide. the prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment by international conventions is not enough to put an end to it. it is essential to combat this phenomenon more vigorously and to establish an effective legislative and judicial framework against these inhuman practices. it is essential to strengthen the protection of victims, which is still too lacking at international level.
in writing. i welcome the adoption on 11 march of the report by my belgian colleague, veronique de keyser, on the eradication of torture in the world. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of the environment, and for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of the environment. in particular, we call on the commission, the european external action service and the member states to give new impetus to the european guidelines on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment and to ensure that the measures against torture provided for in the eu action plan on human rights and democracy have specific and measurable benchmarks . the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the report also provides an opportunity for parliament to commend the work of civil society organisations fighting against impunity and actively working to prevent torture and ill-treatment worldwide.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs veronique de keyser, on the eradication of torture in the world. the report recalls that the principle of zero tolerance for torture is at the heart of the union's action and strategy for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the report also proposes new measures to eradicate torture through the exchange of information, training plans and the strengthening of regional prevention mechanisms. it also supports the immediate ban on stoning and proposes to strengthen the eu's commitment to a universal moratorium on the death penalty. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. this report condemns torture as defined by the un. it pays particular attention to the torture of children and vulnerable groups. it also calls for a universal moratorium on the death penalty and deals with the psychological and physical treatment of prisoners on death row. however, in a total and customary asymmetry, the report mentions north korea, while the amendments concerning guantanamo and the secret cia prisons have been carefully dismissed. yet these are official torture centers. the report also legitimises the role of the european external action service as the central voice of state diplomacy. these last elements force me to abstain on this report.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on the eradication of torture in the world. the s&d group adopted this report to strengthen existing mechanisms and the coherence of european policy to combat the eradication of torture in the world, which is an integral part of the values of the european union. i also wanted to emphasize the need to combat more effectively the torture of children, which is still, unfortunately, a common practice in several third countries. the report by veronique de keyser and the resolution adopted by the plenary also pay particular attention to the death penalty, which is considered to be a form of torture and a violation of human rights.
in writing. the european union fights every day to spread its values throughout the world. human rights are part of its values and we must work to ensure that they are respected internationally. torture is undoubtedly one of the worst violations of human dignity, and yet many cases are reported every day around the world. although the abolition of torture is provided for in the un convention against torture and the european convention for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the union has chosen to go further by opting for a common strategy to eradicate this scourge. i am very glad that i voted in favour of this report. the report stresses the importance of respect for human rights in the union's partner countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which gives an overview of the state of play in relations between saudi arabia and the european union. the eu institutions are invited to strengthen their presence in the region and to establish closer working relations with the country, which is a key player in the muslim world.
in writing. the report accurately highlighted saudi arabia's efforts to meet global standards (including un standards), while strongly emphasising the shortcomings of saudi public policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ana gomes on saudi arabia, which recognises the country's role in regional stability while calling on it to respect its commitments to respect human rights, in accordance with the un conventions that saudi arabia has ratified on the subject. the report focuses on the rights of religious minorities and women, calling for the lifting of all restrictions on them. i welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. saudi arabia is an absolute theocracy, one of the most backward and archaic in the world. the degree of nuisance is multiplied by the protection it has enjoyed so far from the united states and the financial resources it has obtained from the hydrocarbons it extracts from its soil. it is one of the most harmful links in the chain of subjugation to north american imperialism. the united states does not, however, ask it to respect the democratic commitments it made during the gulf war. its role, particularly in the middle east, is that of a buttefeu. in the face of the criticisms raised in the report, the means suggested to promote positive developments in this country are insignificant. indeed, it is hard to see how this could encourage the country to democratize or contribute to a peaceful solution to the various crises in the region, the first of which is the syrian conflict. i vote against it.
in writing. the kingdom of saudi arabia is an important partner of the european union both geopolitically and economically. the union and saudi arabia must work together to ensure stability in the middle east and the wider muslim world. saudi arabia is a predominant player in the fight against terrorism alongside the union in the region. however, it is clear that saudi arabia has a lot of work to do. human rights are not respected in this country. arbitrary arrests, torture, and stoning are commonplace. equality between men and women remains theoretical. saudi arabia is the only country in the world that arbitrarily bans women from driving. i am glad to have voted in favour of this report, which stresses both the value of cooperation with saudi arabia and the many shortcomings of the country's political system. i am glad to see that the european parliament has understood that making certain agreements, particularly trade agreements, conditional on respect for european values is an effective weapon in relations with the union's partners.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments. - madam president, today there are no frontiers preventing the flow of data and information. these are therefore easily transferred to third states and can be intercepted by surveillance bodies. on the international level, the european union must conclude an agreement with the united states to avoid mutual espionage. we must review the agreement on the safe zone to strengthen the rights of citizens and to regulate the use of it by us companies and authorities. finally, we must exploit our potential to develop a truly european cloud computing offering. as regards the regulation on personal data, i hope that it will be adopted quickly so that it will improve the protection of each of us. however, we must not forget that this text applies not only to the american internet giants but also to all european companies and start-ups. so let us be enlightened, let us not fantasize about data, but let us also appreciate the value of data for our economy, for research and for health.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would like to warmly congratulate our fellow rapporteurs and all those who have worked over the last two years to bring this package forward, which is clearly a major challenge to the fundamental rights of our citizens. these rights must be protected against abuse by taking into account the evolution of the digital world we live in today and also to anticipate the changes of tomorrow. i therefore believe that these two texts are really moving in the right direction. i want to see evidence of this in the inclusion of a right to erasure of personal data, support for enhanced redress or better information for consumers about how their data is processed. as regards transfers of data from european countries to third countries, they should only take place on the basis of a sound legal basis, such as an international agreement or a mutual assistance treaty. obligation to give explicit consent, prohibition of profiling: these two years of work have made it possible to arrive at a balanced text which is truly up to the challenges of the current digital revolution, despite the rather intense lobbying, i would say, by the american web giants and others, for that matter. as regards the directive, we have also succeeded in clarifying the rules for the transfer or retention of personal data by law enforcement authorities, without hindering official investigations or proceedings or even the prosecution of criminal offences. i am well aware of the hostility which these ambitious proposals sometimes arouse because they upset established procedures. i would, however, particularly urge the member states not to postpone the adoption of these texts to an uncertain date. after the shock of the revelations about the nsa wiretaps, europe needs clear rules to protect against abuse.
mr president, commissioner, it has been more than eight months since the dissident edward snowden revealed to us the biggest spying scandal ever seen in a democracy. and what do we observe? of course, president obama wanted to restore trust. what a deal! we've had outright statements of outrage from many of our european leaders, and the only action they've taken, like france, is to ban the flight of evo morales' plane because we imagined he could go save edward snowden. that's not worth the risk. millions of european citizens have been spied on. it was our institutions that were spied on. it's our leaders who have been spied on. in two weeks' time, president obama will be visiting europe. the only political move of any magnitude to show our outrage and to ensure that this spying stops is to stop the negotiations on the free trade agreement. this is the only political gesture that will be heard by both the american and the european leaders. that is the message that the european parliament must send by its vote tomorrow. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i think that the debate tonight is a little surreal. this is the hypocrites' ball! all we have heard in the last hour are negative assessments of the current situation in turkey: the political situation, the judicial situation, the business situation, the educational situation, the situation with regard to respect for religious minorities. it's all negative. what is the commission proposing, and what is the report proposing? let's open more chapters of negotiation! it is an illusion to believe that by opening negotiating chapters we will fundamentally influence the course of events... we're going the wrong way. it is a much more demanding political dialogue that we must have with turkey, which is a great partner, but the opening of negotiating chapters is a reward for a turkish power that is going the wrong way. so when i hear the commissioner say that we must open chapter 23 because the turks themselves are asking for it, i am sorry, but this parliament is not elected by the turks or for the turks. this parliament is elected for the european citizens of the member states, and i am not sure that they are following that path.
in writing. in its 2013 progress report, the european commission recalls that turkey is a strategic partner of the european union and highlights turkey's progress in certain areas. however, the report also highlights the points which remain obstacles to progress in the accession negotiations between turkey and the european union and do not allow the opening of new chapters. the events in gezi park last summer were a reminder of the progress that turkey still has to make in respecting human rights and the freedoms of expression, association and assembly. in addition, the political and financial scandal currently shaking the turkish government and the purge that has been carried out in the turkish police and judiciary since december highlight the urgency of reforming the turkish judicial system. i will therefore not support this resolution, which calls for the opening of negotiating chapters 23 and 24 on the judiciary, fundamental rights, justice, freedom and security. turkey is not ready to continue the accession negotiations and must carry out the necessary reforms as soon as possible.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, the single european sky initiative is one of the most important eu projects in the field of air transport. our air traffic management system is fragmented and plagued by delays. it lacks independent oversight, relies on outdated technology and it is vastly more costly than comparable systems elsewhere. with the single european sky project we have taken the first step towards addressing these issues: creating real oversight, laying the groundwork for modernising technology and, for the first time in the history of air transport, we have halted the rise in costs. you might ask why, if we have already done all those wonderful things, we need a new proposal. the answer is that we are only at the beginning of a long road, and whilst we have made some progress, we are nowhere near our goals. the ses[nbsp ]ii+ initiative is not about a new policy, it is about moving to the next stage in the implementation of those existing policies, and that is why we need this proposal. with ses[nbsp ]ii+ we are making the safety and technical oversight authorities truly independent of those they oversee. as remarkable as it may sound, we still have an area where the authorities are part of the organisation they oversee and are sometimes even staffed by the people who have to be overseen. i am sure we can all agree that this is not a recipe for robust safety oversight. ses[nbsp ]ii also clarifies the role of the european aviation safety agency (easa), the commission and eurocontrol by focusing on their respective strengths and avoiding overlaps. we are also pushing for more transparency in how support services are procured. air traffic services today are still not procured under the normal public procurement rules, which allows unhealthy relationships to flourish. the proposal gives a new boost to the functional airspace blocks, allowing industry more freedom and more flexibility. the decision-making in the performance scheme is rationalised and made more independent. as regards parliamentʼs amendments, i fully understand that in a few countries the idea of independent oversight authorities is a difficult one, but unless the authorities are given real resources and independence, we will never have full implementation of the single sky, nor a true assurance of safety. the audits which the easa conducts have revealed some major deficiencies in oversight which we should rectify before accidents happen. similarly, we have some concerns with the amendments deleting the separation of the support service provider. this could make fair and transparent tendering impossible. there is a clear need to ensure that the choice of provider is made on clear and objective criteria and is duly justified. the commission welcomes most of the amendments to the easa basic regulation, which enhance the role of this institution. there are only limited cases where the commission does not share the point of view of the committee on transport and tourism (tran). regarding delegated acts, the commission holds that the text should follow the common understanding on delegated acts and not introduce further requirements, even if the commission has voluntarily taken to including expert groups’ views in its proposals. secondly, we would prefer to maintain an end-of-term evaluation of the executive director of easa. this is particularly important when preparing for reappointment. let me conclude by thanking parliament once more for its support. the successful completion of the first reading in parliament will turn the spotlight on the council and, hopefully, push member states to do their part.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would first like to thank our two rapporteurs for their hard work on a very important subject: the single european sky. the challenges and difficulties are high, given the wide diversity of actors and the complexity of procedures, the importance of security, economic and environmental issues and, unfortunately, divergent national and sectoral interests. all forecasts indicate that air traffic will increase sharply in the coming years. unfortunately, we are not prepared to deal with this development, as has just been said. airspace remains highly fragmented, which means that increased traffic will result in congestion in airspace, with costs in terms of economic efficiency, environmental impact (including co2 emissions and excessive fuel consumption), quality of service for passengers, including travel time and costs, and, last but not least, safety. the implementation of the single european sky will also have a positive impact on growth, employment and competitiveness in europe [nbsp ]m.[nbsp ]marinescu recalled earlier the importance of the sector in terms of employment and the economy[nbsp ] and it will stimulate demand for skilled jobs. we must defend our struggling airlines against international competition and defend european platforms, ensure safe, shorter and cheaper journeys for our passengers, and support our aviation industry, which is currently the world leader but which must be able to rely on better air interoperability in europe, which encourages the deployment of the sesar system through the regulatory measures included in the single european sky project. in conclusion, despite the real difficulties but taking into account the challenges, it is important to overcome national blockages and intergovernmental regulation and finally to achieve a genuine integration of european skies for the benefit of all the actors.
madam president, madam commissioner, i fear that behind the beautiful words with almost poetic consonance of 'a single european sky' there is in fact a dangerous project to liberalize and privatize air transport surveillance services to an extreme. this project, in the name of the words you yourself use here, competition and competitiveness, is to deconstruct the structures of regulation, navigation and surveillance which have proved their effectiveness, such as the directorate-general for civil aviation in france and its european equivalents. you call it harmonization, but this is called dismantling, to open the door to a low-cost, privately owned air traffic control service with fewer employees, precarious status and underpaid, which will unfortunately result in a lower level of safety for travellers. in the name of aviation safety, in the name of the life of the people, which is priceless, i believe that we must abandon this dangerous project and renegotiate with the states and the unions. if we are looking for cost reduction, let us look at the financial costs and shareholder compensation side. under no circumstances should we risk safety, human lives.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we have said this evening, given their impact on the climate, fluorinated gases are a real danger and their use should be stopped as soon as economically viable solutions are available. i tabled several amendments in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety because i felt it was essential to ensure that we made the transition to solutions that were less harmful to our environment and to take account of the economic realities, mr president - this is still our subject - the very real problems faced by those who use these fluorinated gases. we must fight against the legal instability that is undermining our european economy. i am pleased with the final text because we are setting clear objectives for protecting our climate. but we must take the time to do so. i support this compromise and call for a vote in favour of it. at the end of my term of office, i would like to take this opportunity to thank you, commissioner connie hedegaard, for the excellent work you have done together. as rapporteur on the consolidation of the european co2 market, i hope to be able to continue this essential work beyond the european elections on 25 may. it will be a great occasion to remind europeans that they want policymakers to protect them in the fight against climate change and i will be in your member state, commissioner, to offer you champagne so that we can celebrate this great event together.
mr president, 97% of europeans do not travel for work within the european union. the right of free movement of european workers within the union is very difficult to apply and to make a living. the formal rights of workers to free movement are, however, aligned with those existing in the anti-discrimination directive, for example the right to social protection in the country of the place of work. however, the aim is to provide the means to facilitate the effective exercise of these rights and to remove obstacles. the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament has carried out constructive work which has brought this text safely to the trilogue with the council and the commission. this has led to a good agreement. important advances include the right to a group court procedure, a reference to sufficient funds for bodies working on equal rights for workers and their families, easier access to information and a better understanding of the barriers to the exercise of this right. the ball is now in the council's court. the issue is the fight against social dumping within the union.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the march european council is taking place in a tense international context. syria, egypt and ukraine are in all our minds. the instability in our neighbourhood reminds us how fragile the peace around us is, how we as europeans must work and act together to go further and to keep this peace. last friday, at the epp congress, the irish singer bono delivered a strong and sensible message. i share his view that europe is an economic entity which exists and which must now assert itself and become a social entity. it is true that the union must be united to be strong. this is how we make our voice heard in the world. the decisions which the council will take on energy policy, competitiveness and the european semester are the driving forces behind our ambition for europe. without an energy policy for 28 member states, we will remain dependent, or even hostage, to energy suppliers in unstable regions who are prepared to use energy as an economic weapon. this addiction must not and cannot last. our fellow citizens are concerned and our fellow citizens from the eastern countries who have joined us - "the eastern countries" in quotation marks, i do not like that term - are very concerned about unemployment and employment, and about what is happening in their neighbourhood. this will be a central theme in the next european elections. we all agree here, but our solutions to job creation are different. we use slogans, waving words like "austerity" to play on people's fears. i also borrow the formula of our candidate for president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker: the 25 million unemployed in europe is the 29th member state of the european union. in the euro area alone, there are 20 million unemployed people, and we must concentrate our efforts to help them find work. by introducing the european semester, we have given europe the tools to strengthen its credibility, to restore investor confidence and to ensure our economic stability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. good investment is also needed to support growth across europe. this is why the objectives of horizon 2020 are crucial. that is why we must also look at our industrial policy. european industry, thanks to our smes, has always been a strength of europe. the company has thus benefited from a powerful research, development and innovation centre. however, in the absence of real social and fiscal harmonization, we are witnessing month after month of sme bankruptcies. if you opened the alsace news yesterday, you came across two pages of notice of company liquidation. for my region, alsace, it is huge. we tend to talk about layoffs in large companies, but not a word about the hundreds of smes that disappear every day and leave thousands of employees stranded. there are now 20 million smes in europe and by optimising their competitiveness through the creation of a favourable environment and the fight against distortions of competition between states, we are effectively helping smes and encouraging recruitment. if every sme in europe hired just one person, there would be virtually no unemployed in the area. i would like to return to the european semester: some people consider it an intolerable loss of sovereignty. it is the opposite: it is a gain of sovereignty. the crisis has shown us that everything is possible. but with more transparency, shared supervision and better coordination, we are strengthening our sovereignty, our sovereignty as europeans. the european semester is a bulwark against the hazards and attacks of the financial markets. in recent years, considerable progress has been made by europe and europeans. we must be proud of it, proud of peace, proud of prosperity, proud of a united europe, proud of a europe that protects. i hope that on 25 may our fellow citizens will say what kind of europe they want for themselves and for their children, and i think they will do so. for me, the answer is simple: we need more europe because europe is the solution. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr watson, thank you for your congratulations. you know, in alsace, we don't say "congratulations" to someone who holds such a position, we say "sincere condolences"! why would i send mrs. merkel to negotiate with the russians? i'm from europe. that mrs. merkel keeps good relations with the russians, i totally agree, and she certainly does. but in the context of the european semester, it is all europeans who must negotiate the energy issue. because one country, even germany, will only have weight if we have a european energy policy. that's my first answer. i do not think, my dear watson, that the epp group can be said to be against the environment. no, you can't! i am also in favour of the environment but we must be very careful. on a global level, we are the best and we are far ahead. we must continue our efforts, but if the others - china and the whole world - do not follow us, we will eliminate all our jobs and europe will be the cleanest continent in the world but will be jobless. when i was in berlin, germany, with some big business leaders, a big boss, i can quote, from thyssen-krupp, said to me, "gentlemen,".... (various movements) i'm for keeping every job we have. let us not put our businesses in trouble because of environmental problems. we must respect them, as a farmer, i know that it costs us. if everyone made the same effort, we would be much more advanced.
mr. president, mr. barroso is not interested in our discussions. this is his last spring european council and i can only be happy about that, because president barroso has clearly not understood what a spring european council is for. a spring european council cannot be used to implement a european semester which is only a semester of austerity. this cannot be used to implement a european semester which does not see the social divide that exists today in europe after ten years of mr barroso's mandate. this cannot be used to implement a european semester which says that we need social indicators and which draws no conclusions from them. this cannot be used to implement a european semester which thinks that the growth forecasts are satisfactory and which considers the europe 2020 strategy to be a success, even though all indicators are in the red and none of the objectives of this strategy will be achieved. it's time to change the majority. it is time for a new commission to implement a real european strategy, one which gives us a global vision, which enables us to give priority to public and private investment and which enables us to make employment a real priority again. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the energy efficiency of the community's coal and steel industries. but it is clear that he has been unable to implement it. we are now at the heart of this energy divide within the european union, this lack of control. mr barroso talks about an industrial renaissance, but what has he done to make energy the spearhead of this industrial renaissance? the project was there, within reach, but it required a little political will and leadership, which he proved incapable of. we must implement this european energy community which will enable us to create new jobs throughout europe and i can only rejoice that perhaps the absence of mr juncker at the european council will allow progress to be made on energy taxation to put finance back at the service of this common strategy which we need.
mr president, i would like to congratulate president barroso and president van rompuy on all they are doing to encourage political thinking. mrs berès, i would advise you to address yourself to the president of the french republic, who is a member of the european council and who normally exercises a great deal of influence over the decisions it takes, and not to president barroso, who implements what we decide. i regret that there is no euro-zone summit which is planned in parallel by the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in economic and monetary union. as for industrial policy, i think it is a very important area. the heads of state or government should consider that all european union policies must be designed with a view to implementing a successful industrial policy. this is the case with competition policy. in my constituency, limousin, we are still in shock at the european commission's refusal to merge two major european champions, which would have created a world champion in the electronics sector. competition policy must be at the service of industrial policy. this is what trade policy must be. let us not be naive and think that we are benefiting from reciprocity. monetary policy must be like that. the last word in my speech will be devoted to the elections. i believe that the citizens should have the last word. i suggest, mr president, that in the last session of this parliament we had a great debate with several documents: the opinion of the heads of state or government, the european commission document on the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy and also the prospect of the next political discussions on the 2016 budget review clause. the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
the question is "blue cardboard". mr. audy, you must be selective about the news. i am sure you have noticed that the president of the french republic has proposed strong initiatives in the field of energy, including on the basis of franco-german cooperation, which would create european champions, which seems to me to coincide exactly with the strategy we are proposing.
answer is "blue cardboard". mrs berès, i did not quite understand what the question was. i am glad that the president of the french republic, which was not the case with his government a year ago, is reviving franco-german relations and i therefore congratulate him.
mr president, i think the debate is focusing a little too much on the question of the international legality of the referendum in crimea. i think this is a false debate, because international law can be interpreted in many ways, and even contradicted. what is not in dispute, however, is that this referendum is illegitimate, because it is being held in the context of a military invasion, a context of lies from moscow about the threats to the russian and russian-speaking populations and also lies from moscow about the nature of the political transition taking place in ukraine and that it is not the result of a coup d'état by neo-nazis. we must therefore condemn moscow's actions and words. this requires a unanimous, extremely firm and determined response from the european union. after the diplomatic hesitations of the last few weeks, i think it's time to move on to action, and action is firm and determined sanctions.
in writing. on the ukrainian issue, we must remember that a firm response is needed to oppose russian interference. but i say frankly: we europeans have no answer. our common diplomacy is silent. and let's not even talk about our defense... in such situations we must speak with one voice.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to the extremely serious events taking place in the french republic, which are undermining democracy and the rule of law and are violations of individual freedoms. a former president of the republic, former ministers, lawyers were wiretapped under questionable judicial conditions. five hundred lawyers considered it an unacceptable drift from democracy and individual freedoms. the minister of justice appeared to be lying and was contradicted by her prime minister. mr president, article 7 of the charter of fundamental rights states that everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his communications. as we are about to vote on the moraes report on the nsa wiretaps, i would ask whether the european commission could examine whether the french republic has respected fundamental rights in this case and, if not, whether infringement proceedings could not be initiated. (applause from the right)
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by the committee on foreign affairs on pakistan's regional role and political relations with the european union.
in writing. by voting for this text, the european parliament wanted to underline the importance of good cooperation with pakistan and encourage the consolidation of democracy in that country. however, i think it is important to stress that pakistan still has progress to make in many areas, including the protection of religious minorities. attacks on christians and other religious minorities must be condemned. i support this call by the european parliament for respect for religious freedom.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr boris zala, on pakistan's regional role and political relations with the european union. the report stresses that pakistan's recent political and economic progress remains hampered by security concerns within the country and at the regional level. it encourages pakistan to re-establish the authority of the state and preserve its territorial integrity. it also called on the country to ban the export of any nuclear weapons-related material and to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of women and freedom of religion and belief. the report also states that relations between the union and pakistan need to be deepened, in particular through political dialogue. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. on wednesday 12 march, the european parliament adopted an own-initiative report on pakistan's regional role and political relations with the european union. we have called on pakistan to ban the export of nuclear weapons and to take more ambitious measures to limit the possibilities of recruiting and training terrorists in that country. we have encouraged pakistanis to play a constructive role in strengthening regional stability, particularly in afghanistan following the withdrawal of nato troops. we wanted to deepen relations between pakistan and the european union, particularly in the field of political and security cooperation. finally, we welcomed the relative progress in democracy and human rights in that country and encouraged it to continue its efforts. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important that the european union can rely on pakistan to maintain relative stability in south-east asia and to prevent the spread of terrorism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which encourages the strengthening of democratic institutions and the rule of law in pakistan. the country's continued commitment to the fight against terrorism is also positive. its authorities are encouraged to take more ambitious measures to further limit the possibilities for recruitment and training in the context of terrorism.
in writing. this report makes sometimes lucid observations and offers a comprehensive vision of what a democracy should be. this is noteworthy, coming from an institution that is usually devoted to promoting the principles of "neoliberal democratization". however, many areas remain unclear. this report does not establish any international responsibility for the security situation in the country. and for good reason, it would force him to admit the disastrous nature of the nato intervention. it is therefore understandable that he will confine himself to a few minimalist remarks on the use of drones. there is no mention of the country's nuclear arsenal or its policy towards india. i therefore prefer to abstain on this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which underlines that pakistan's strategic role in the region. its relations with its neighbours and with the european union are of major and growing importance to the union. the march 2013 general elections marked the first handover of power in pakistan's modern history between two elected civilian governments. however, the country's political and economic progress is hampered by pervasive security problems both within the country and at the regional level (extremism, fanaticism, suicide bombings and targeted assassinations).
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the missile shield for europe and its political and strategic implications. it takes on a whole new dimension in this geopolitical context. russia remains opposed to such a shield, which it considers to be a provocation, or even an admission of aggression, against it, whereas our member states in the east see it as a guarantee of respect for the frontiers.
in writing. this text deals with the issue of the deployment of a missile shield for europe. it stressed the need for close cooperation between member states to develop an effective strategy in the field of ballistic missile defence at a time when the threat of nuclear proliferation may be acute. i believe it is particularly important to establish close links with nato in order to contribute to strengthening european security, in the framework of a strategic partnership.
in writing. in the 20th century, europe was devastated by two wars. the continuing conflict in the balkans and the recent developments in eastern europe suggest that our continent is not entirely free from major destabilising movements and serious instabilities. the necessary fiscal consolidation policies in the member states have led to drastic cuts in defence budgets and few countries in the european union are able to have sufficient operational and strategic resources and a real military presence. the terrorist threats to europe must also lead us to reflect on the protection and security of our continent. in this context, the desirability of deploying a missile shield under the auspices of nato merits careful consideration both from the point of view of the security of the continent and its economic, political and diplomatic implications.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr sampo terho, on the missile shield for europe and its political and strategic implications. the report acknowledges the efforts made by nato to develop a ballistic missile defence capability and invites the high representative to pursue a strategic partnership with nato that would result in comprehensive coverage and protection of all eu member states. it also states that nato's ballistic missile defence plan is in no way directed against russia and that nato is ready to cooperate with russia on the basis of the coexistence of two independent missile defence systems. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. on wednesday 12[nbsp ]march, i voted, like the majority of meps, in favour of an own-initiative report on the missile shield for europe and its political and strategic implications. the report supports nato's efforts to develop a ballistic missile defence capability. we have invited the high representative for foreign affairs to enter into a partnership with nato to ensure that eu member states which are not nato members enjoy the same level of protection against ballistic missiles as nato members. finally, we have encouraged joint research and better cooperation to make the development of these technologies more efficient and less costly.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which recognises the efforts made by nato to develop a ballistic missile defence capability. a strategic partnership between the european union and nato would be necessary to ensure uniform protection for all eu member states.
in writing. the european union is the best example of atlanticism! let us not forget the imminent threat of nuclear attack, which is being made in defiance of the international diplomacy of combating the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the resolution merely says that the nato system must be installed in europe and even speaks on behalf of the belligerent organization. this kind of military staging is in reality directed against russia and is part of the logic of an aggressive imperial policy in the service of the united states of america. moreover, it puts france at risk by emptying its deterrent. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the missile shield for europe and its political and strategic implications. the issue of ballistic missile defence has become a topical issue in recent years due to the multiplication of threats arising from the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction, as well as the proliferation of ballistic missiles, to which the north atlantic treaty organisation (nato) and its european allies must be able to respond effectively. defence against ballistic missile or other types of missile attacks can be a breakthrough for european security in the highly evolving security context.
in writing. defending european citizens against potential attacks by a malicious entity is the priority of the european union and nato. together these two entities must be able to succeed in ensuring the collective defence of european citizens. a strategic partnership between the union and nato is therefore very necessary in order to be able to deploy the same security arrangements throughout europe. the union must cooperate with nato in the development of anti-ballistic missiles. i am glad that i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. it shows that the european parliament wants the whole of europe to adopt the idea of a common strategy in order to achieve maximum protection for european citizens.
in writing. i voted against this report. he spoke of an alarming situation of "proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction". the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the majority of meps have taken the role of nato spokesman, stressing that "nato's missile defence plan is in no way directed against russia and that nato is ready to cooperate with russia", a speech that is at least original or rather out of date in view of the developments in ukraine. the gue/ngl group has chosen to table another text criticising nato, a costly and ineffective military system. we are calling for a strict separation between the european union and nato and for the abandonment of all missile shield plans, since they can only fuel the arms race and the militarisation of relations with other countries, including russia. the example of ukraine is enough to demonstrate this, but it is true that the arms trade has its reasons which reason does not know.
in writing. on 6[nbsp]march[nbsp]2013, the commission opened negotiations on a free trade agreement between the european union and thailand. the ambition is to conclude a comprehensive agreement covering customs tariffs, non-tariff barriers and other trade issues such as services, investment, public procurement, regulatory issues, competition and sustainable development. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to shed light on market access for fishery products, services and investments in the context of these negotiations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mato report on the fisheries sector and the free trade agreement between the european union and thailand. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the rules of origin must be respected in order to avoid a situation such as we have seen with papua new guinea, where any tuna landed in a papua port and processed on the spot had preferential access to the european market. parliament reiterated its opposition to any unfair competition for european producers.
in writing. this paper discusses the prospects for the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the european union and thailand in the fisheries sector. this agreement is crucial as thailand is one of the world's leading fish producers. i also recognize that special attention needs to be paid to sensitive products such as canned fish and seafood, of which thailand is the world's leading producer. it is important to maintain the current tariffs for these products in order not to destabilise the european market in the fisheries sector and in particular the canned tuna industry.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which highlights the key issues in the fisheries sector that the european union must pay attention to in the negotiations for a free trade agreement with thailand. this includes product traceability, reciprocity of market access and a rigorous impact assessment of the implications of the application of tariff preferences for the european seafood sector.
in writing. the report calls for the fisheries and fishery products processing sector not to be included in the free trade agreement with thailand. the report, of course, confirms the european will to seek such a free trade agreement, but it does so to better point out the dangers for a sector. i am a supporter of solidarity protectionism and i am against the free trade agreement with thailand. if such an agreement were to be concluded, the exclusion of the fisheries sector would be a lesser evil. that is what this report is proposing. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the situation and future prospects of the european fisheries sector in the framework of the free trade agreement between the european union and thailand. in order to ensure the competitiveness of the union tuna industry and to preserve the important activity and social dimension (25[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]direct jobs and 54[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]indirect jobs) it represents in the union, the report recommends the introduction of long transition periods or partial liberalisation commitments, including the imposition of quotas, for canned fish and seafood products, if tariff liberalisation is introduced.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on fisheries in future free trade agreements negotiated between the european union and thailand. the report calls on the commission to exclude processed and canned fishery products from the list of tariff reductions envisaged. we now import more than 65 percent of the seafood we consume. thailand and the philippines are the main exporters of canned tuna to the union. at the same time, our canneries are located in coastal areas that are highly dependent on fishing. as we witness the terrible effects of the crisis on our industry, it is vital that we counter the trend of our jobs being pushed out of the union. thailand is far from applying the same environmental and social standards as the union, particularly in the fisheries sector, and to include these products would be in total contradiction to our ambitions, we cannot have a two-speed fisheries policy. we hope that the commission will respect this signal sent by the european parliament in its negotiations with thailand, otherwise parliament's approval would be called into question.
in writing. gastronomy is an essential part of european know-how and know-how that we need to promote on a daily basis. as a food mep from tours, a major city of gastronomy, i welcome this own-initiative report by my colleague and friend santiago fisas, and particularly its whole dimension of gastronomic education. i voted in favour of this report without hesitation.
in writing. the european union has one of the richest gastronomic heritage in the world, and it seemed necessary to recall that this heritage must be enhanced, particularly in the context of policies to promote a balanced diet and the fight against overweight.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on european gastronomic heritage because it highlights an essential element of european tourism and promotes european gastronomic heritage. the report calls on the member states to integrate the study of food, nutritional health and eating habits, including its historical and cultural aspects, into school education from early childhood. the rapporteur also encourages the commission, the council and the member states to study the impact of the legislative acts they adopt on the capacity, diversity and quality of food production in the union and to take action to combat counterfeiting.
in writing. with this text, we aim to provide national education systems with frameworks to generalize good practice in healthy eating. in particular, i support the idea of integrating the promotion of healthy eating into european funding initiatives and programmes. this is a necessary step for the union to play an effective role not only in food awareness but also in gastronomy.
in writing. in general, the effects of globalisation are perceived negatively in france. it has imported dietary practices like junk food and junk food, which have contributed to the explosion of diseases like obesity, malnutrition and cardiovascular disease. in a different sense, globalisation has also made it possible to export our gastronomic heritage, which contributes to france's cultural influence and economic presence in the world. it is therefore essential that we continue to promote the art of good food and quality products, which are often locally produced, abroad and also in our education systems. i am convinced that knowledge of diet and its nutritional effects is the first prevention against all these diseases which have proliferated for more than a decade.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the importance of gastronomy and cuisine in social and family relations, but also as a form of artistic and cultural expression. we recalled the potential of agro-tourism in the economic development of european regions and in the promotion of the cultural diversity of the member states. we also called for the strengthening of early childhood nutrition education to promote this gastronomic heritage and to improve eating habits to better combat diseases such as obesity, anorexia or cardiovascular disease.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european gastronomic heritage, which stresses the importance of diet in the fight against disorders such as obesity, anorexia and cardiovascular disease. this report suggests that member states introduce educational aspects related to food in school education.
in writing. a report that does not eat bread and is a credit to french gastronomy! in short, this report on gastronomy shows the link between food education and the level of well-being and health of the population. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'short-term' in the definition of the term 'long-term'. on the cultural side, it encourages states to promote their gastronomic heritage and welcomes the inclusion of the 'french gastronomic meal' in the unesco intangible heritage of humanity. great efforts of taste, refinement and civilization will therefore have to be organized in many countries such as the united kingdom to pursue this excellence. i hope that this report will be followed by action, in the interests of our stomachs, as well as in the general interest defended by our ecosocialist theses, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. i voted for this report which stresses that the health and well-being of the population is profoundly affected by food and the environment, and therefore by the type of farming, fishing and livestock farming. the text therefore calls on the member states to integrate the study and sensory experience of food, nutritional health and eating habits into school education from early childhood, in order to contribute to improving the health and well-being of the population, to improving the quality of food and to promoting respect for the environment.
in writing. the european union is made up of countries with different cultural heritages. too often the culture of one country is not recognized by others. through gastronomy, we have the opportunity to learn from each other and we must seize it. moreover, food has recently become a major topic of debate in europe and worldwide. we are increasingly confronted with the phenomenon of obesity. from an early age, children should be made aware of the importance of a healthy diet. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. on the one hand, it stresses the importance of educating european citizens about european gastronomy from a cultural perspective and, on the other, it stresses the importance of educating young people about eating properly.
in writing. i was involved in drafting and voting in favour of this report, which deals with two key issues: the food autonomy of the european union and its gastronomic diversity. i insisted that this text should recall the importance of european food production of a variety, quality and quantity sufficient to ensure self-sufficiency. food and gastronomy are fundamental to many economic sectors: tourism, agriculture, fishing, catering, and consumption. the regulations must take account of this wealth. this report covers the whole of gastronomy, because everything from production to final consumption is interlinked. the text recalls that the diversity of european products is a major asset which must be protected, in particular by means of controlled labels and designations. in addition, he stresses that training in oral crafts, the perpetuation of know-how, their inventory and their transmission are an important issue for our gastronomic diversity and its perpetuation. the text also emphasises the use of fresh products and processing from raw production. it also concerns education about good food from an early age, to ensure the transmission of this heritage and to protect the health of europeans.
in writing. the purpose of this draft regulation is to reform a 1995 directive to take account of the evolution of data processing brought about by the internet. it covers both data processed online (social networks, online shopping, e-banking) and data processed offline (registers of hospitals, universities, companies, etc.). many amendments (over 3[nbsp ]000) had been tabled in parliamentary committees. compromise was found, allowing a balanced outcome that respects the right to privacy without imposing unreasonable obligations. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. as recent news has shown us again, it seemed necessary to reiterate that access to personal data should be strictly regulated in order to protect citizens' privacy.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has finally adopted the personal data package, thus sending a strong political signal to european citizens, but also to the council, which has yet to adopt the text. the prism case and the growing consumer complaints show that this is a real concern for europeans. while i regret certain weaknesses, particularly in the framework of pseudonymised data, i believe that explicit consent, the framework for data transfers to a third country or the possibility of de-referencing are tangible advances. the redefinition of these rules was all the more fundamental as the union is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with the united states.
in writing. this text revises european legislation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. the protection of personal data is a fundamental right guaranteed in europe by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the current legislation dates from 1995, well before the dramatic advances of the digital age, and is no longer adapted to the challenges posed by the development of the internet. it seems to me therefore absolutely essential to adapt this legal framework to ensure adequate protection of the personal data of european citizens. in particular, it seems appropriate to adopt directly applicable legislation in a uniform manner in the member states to put an end to the fragmented approach to data protection. finally, the granting of new rights to european citizens, such as the right to have personal data concerning them erased, seems to me particularly interesting.
in writing. despite the rise of the internet in recent years, the rules for protecting the data of european citizens and consumers have been the same since 1995. the european legislation has therefore had to be adapted. new rules will now ensure a much higher level of protection and information for citizens and consumers. for example, companies will have to provide clear and understandable notices on the use of their customers' data. citizens will also finally be able to benefit from the 'right to be forgotten', i.e. the erasure of their personal data on the internet. any violation of these rules will be severely punished by fines of up to 5% of the annual turnover of the companies charged. all these measures should make it possible to better control the use and transfer of citizens' personal data.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jan philipp albrecht, which deals with the general regulation on the protection of personal data. in a particularly difficult context of surveillance of the personal data of european citizens and opaque business practices by digital giants, this report provides a number of answers and shows the european parliament's will to protect its citizens. the right to erasure of data is thus enshrined and the use of data is strictly regulated while taking into account the specificities of certain fields, such as medical research. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report by a very large majority (621 votes in favour, 10 against and 22 abstentions).
in writing. meps adopted a text to better regulate the processing of personal data, in particular data recorded on social networks, online banking sites and in the customer registers of companies. we have improved information for citizens by requiring data controllers to inform users about the conditions for processing data and their rights, for example by indicating how long data will be kept or whether it is possible to lodge a complaint. persons who have entrusted their personal data will have a right of access to such data and a right to have it deleted. member states will have to set up one or more independent supervisory authorities, which will cooperate with each other within the european data protection board. any person shall have the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority. member states will also have to clarify the liability of subcontractors and define criminal sanctions. i voted in favour of this proposal because the current legislation, dating from 1995, did not provide sufficient protection for the personal data of citizens in the context of the rapidly developing market for the processing of personal data.
in writing. in the digital age, it is essential to better protect the personal data of european citizens, whether by collecting their consent or by the right to be forgotten. the aim is to strike a balance between ensuring high standards of data protection and not undermining growth by imposing disproportionate constraints on businesses, and in particular smes.
in writing. the commission is proposing a regulation to replace the old 1995 directive, which had been rendered obsolete by technological developments and was largely not being respected by the member states, resulting in a lack of protection for citizens. the report significantly improves the commission's proposal by strengthening the parts on the right to be forgotten, the right to object and the explicit request for consent from individuals. it also offers safeguards to european residents when their data is transferred to third countries. finally, it contains an important provision for employees not to be put on a 'black list' on the basis of their 'political orientation, trade union affiliation and activities'. the right hand was obviously in the game. it has restricted the progressive parties, which it justifies by the "legitimate interest" of the companies. despite these points, the report is moving in the right direction to ensure more protection, and i am voting in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which will protect the freedoms and fundamental rights of natural persons, in particular their right to the protection of personal data, and which will guarantee the free movement of such data by the competent authorities within the union. this regulation lays down rules on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention and detection of, investigation and prosecution of, or execution of criminal offences.
in writing. the protection of privacy is guaranteed by the european charter of fundamental rights, which, i would remind you, has the same legal value as the treaties. the european union has therefore formally committed itself to protecting this right. new technologies are making it possible to access citizens' personal information more quickly. this is why european legislation must be adapted to preserve their rights to privacy and the protection of personal data. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a balance between data collection for commercial purposes to better target consumers and the protection of privacy. the european parliament, of which i am proud to be a member, will always fight to protect the fundamental rights of its citizens.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to extend the application of the pericles 2020 programme, designed to protect the euro against counterfeiting, to countries outside the euro area. this programme is working well and i therefore approve this extension.
in writing. the aim of this recommendation was to define practical actions to combat counterfeiting, in particular to combat organised crime.
in writing. the pericles programme aims at cooperation between national, european and international authorities responsible for combating euro counterfeiting. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia. it rightly contributes to the optimisation of the prevention and suppression of counterfeiting within the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. the aim of this report is to extend the action programme on exchanges, assistance and training for the protection of the euro against this phenomenon (pericles 2020 programme) to the member states of the european union which do not yet use the euro as their single currency. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, which aims to extend the programme to combat counterfeiting (périclès[nbsp ]2020) to the member states which have not adopted the euro. this regulation will improve the effectiveness of the programme by ensuring better coordination between the member states of the european union and better training of the authorities of each country in the detection of counterfeit banknotes.
in writing. the pericles[nbsp]2020 programme has proven itself. extending it to countries which have not yet adopted the single currency will only make it more effective.
in writing. the pericles anti-counterfeiting programme, in place since 2002, has ensured that the euro is not counterfeited on a large scale. the aim is to extend its application to non-euro area countries, thereby making the prevention and suppression of counterfeiting more effective. however, last december, despite my opposition, participation in the pericles programme was extended to private counterfeiting control entities. as then, i refuse to have the private sector involved in the control of the currency. therefore, i abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to extend the programme of action on exchanges, assistance and training in the protection of the euro against counterfeiting (the 'pericles 2020' programme) to the member states of the european union which do not yet use the euro as the single currency. the legal basis for the pericles programme, namely article[nbsp ]133 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which, in order to address concerns relating to the protection of the euro, provides for the establishment of the measures necessary for the use of the euro as the single currency, is applicable only to the member states which have adopted the euro as the single currency.
in writing. i voted in favour of this eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation agreement because it allows for further rapprochement with azerbaijan while offering sufficient guarantees for the control of migration flows.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague, mariya gabriel, on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and azerbaijan on visa facilitation. this agreement, which is linked to the agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorization, does not provide for visa exemption for the nationals of this country. i therefore welcome the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. azerbaijan has fulfilled all the necessary criteria, including in terms of security. the visa facilitation agreement can therefore be concluded in parallel with the readmission agreement.
in writing. this text facilitates the free movement of individuals when, all too often, the texts submitted to us in this chamber concern only the liberalisation of finance. the proposed relaxation of visa procedures strengthens trade between the peoples concerned while guaranteeing the sovereignty of the states. that is why i am voting for this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which recommends that the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and azerbaijan on the facilitation of the issuance of visas. this agreement is a step forward in cooperation with the czech republic in the field of mobility and is of major political and procedural importance. the new rules introduced in the agreement would simplify and speed up procedures.
in writing. i voted in favour of this eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation agreement because it allows for further rapprochement with azerbaijan while providing sufficient guarantees for the control of migration flows and, in particular, the negotiation on the readmission of persons on irregular stay.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague mariya gabriel on the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and azerbaijan on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. this agreement, linked to the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, will facilitate the return procedures of the nationals of this country who have entered the european union illegally. i therefore welcome the adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. readmission agreements are essential tools in the fight against irregular residents. i therefore supported the conclusion of this agreement with azerbaijan.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to deprive irregular migrants of their rights by applying simplified and expeditious return procedures to their countries of origin. the readmission obligation for nationals also covers family members, i.e. spouse and unmarried minor children. i vote against this agreement, which denies basic human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which gives the european parliament's approval to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and azerbaijan on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. this agreement is a step forward in cooperation with the czech republic in the field of mobility and is of major political and procedural importance.
in writing. this text calls for greater protection of children in armed conflicts involving the humanitarian engagement of non-state actors. the european parliament sets out a series of recommendations and measures that the european union should apply in order to try to better protect these children who are being conscripted into armed conflicts. it seems important to me to recall that international humanitarian law is a binding legal framework that also applies to non-state actors and that they have a responsibility to protect children. it is necessary to ensure that this right is respected, in particular through humanitarian ngos which are trying to strengthen the dialogue with these armed non-state actors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which makes recommendations to member states to ensure that humanitarian standards protecting civilians, and in particular children, apply in all armed conflicts and are respected by all parties, including non-state armed actors.
in writing. estimates of the number of children currently involved in armed conflict range from 250,000 to 800,000. this non-legislative report aims to prevent and end the recruitment of children under 18 and their forced participation in conflicts. to this end, it encourages the signature by the states concerned and armed non-state actors of action plans for the protection of children in armed conflict, including the geneva call. i am voting in favour, with no illusions about the consequences of this text in the regions concerned.
in writing. the proposal for a recommendation considers that the international community has a moral duty to work towards ensuring that all parties to conflicts (both states and non-state actors) make commitments to protect children. it called in particular for the signing of action plans for the protection of children with the office of the special representative of the un secretary-general for children and armed conflict, for the prevention and cessation of the recruitment of children under the age of eighteen, and for non-state armed actors to sign the geneva call for the protection of children from the effects of armed conflict. i have therefore supported this recommendation, which is a step forward in the fight against the scourge of child soldiers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which recalls that most armed conflicts also affect civilians, and particularly children, who become the main victims of these wars. the protection of civilians, and especially children, requires compliance with international humanitarian rules that are binding on all parties to armed conflict. this is why the text encourages the signature by the states concerned and by non-state armed actors of action plans for the protection of children in armed conflict with the office of the special representative of the un secretary-general for children and armed conflict.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the organisation of parliament's work, which sets the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies. the purpose of the delegations is to contribute, through continuous interparliamentary dialogue, to the strengthening of parliamentary democracy.
in writing. this report sets the number of interparliamentary delegations and their responsibilities for the next parliamentary term. the main aim is to clarify the functioning of these delegations without making major changes. no delegations were removed, contrary to the initial intention to stick to the large groups and bilateral delegations of strategic partnerships. that's a good thing. however, it makes the conditions for participation in delegations more stringent. so to be a member of the eurolat delegation, as i am at present, i will also have to be a member of a delegation from a subset or a country in the region. it's not obvious. south america is not an addition but a whole. but i vote for it.
in writing. manufactured nanomaterials are created by humans to meet certain medical or food needs. although the details of possible future applications are not yet known, this is probably a future area. so far, scientific studies do not conclude that there is a danger but call for caution. however, some nanomaterials are not manufactured but have long been present in foods, such as dutch sauce or mayonnaise. the legislative framework for nanomaterials is provided by the consumer information regulation, adopted at the end of 2011 and which will enter into force on 13 december 2014. the delegated act prepared by the european commission to ensure the application of this text provides for the labelling of nanomaterials present in food, with certain limitations. today, this resolution calling for full labelling (old and new nanomaterials) seems excessive to me, creating confusion for consumers who will wonder why their mayonnaise is now described as containing nanomaterials and who will assume that this is synonymous with a particular risk, and finally difficult to apply, because a very low nanoparticle content is difficult to detect, which means that such a measure would not be controllable by the competent authorities. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. i rejected the objection to the european commission delegated regulation amending the legislation on the definition of manufactured nanomaterials in food. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal. requiring producers to indicate all ingredients that occur as manufactured nanomaterials on the list of food ingredients would lead to excessive labelling requirements. it is not possible to distinguish naturally occurring nanomaterials in food from manufactured nanomaterials. it is therefore very difficult to apply such legislation. i regret that, by this vote, the european parliament has chosen legislation which will contribute more to confusion than to consumer protection.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the objection to a delegated act of the european commission on consumer information on foodstuffs as regards the definition of 'manufactured nanomaterials'. this delegated act provided for the labelling of all nanomaterials present in food, whether manufactured or natural. however, nanomaterials containing less than 50% of particles with one or more dimensions in the range of 1 to 100 nanometres, as well as food additives (already present on the official union list of food additives) were not covered by this new proposed definition. however, these limitations are the basis for parliament's objection to this delegated act, which calls for full labelling of all nanomaterials. such a provision would be unworkable in practice, as low levels of nanoparticles are very difficult to detect. it would also cause confusion and concern for consumers, who would see the term 'nano' on the labelling of certain food products already on the market, even though they are not the subject of new suspicions of health risks. i regret the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. i voted against the resolution calling on the european commission to make mandatory the labelling of food containing manufactured nanomaterials, ingredients obtained through the use of nanotechnologies. i consider this proposal to be unrealistic and unnecessary, since some nanomaterials are naturally present in food, such as fruit juices, powdered products and milk, including those from organic production. furthermore, the requirement to change all food packaging would be a significant cost to the industry. i therefore hope that the european commission will maintain its original proposal. the commission act does not provide for labelling of food containing nanomaterials but will clarify the definition of 'manufactured nanomaterials' and define an acceptable threshold of nanomaterials in food.
in writing. i voted against the objection to a delegated act on consumer information on foodstuffs as regards information on nanomaterials, as the proposal is difficult to apply and could create confusion among consumers.
in writing. the resolution aims to oppose a commission regulation which seeks to repeal the provisions on the labelling of all food additives which are in the form of manufactured nanomaterials. this exemption creates confusion between the food safety aspects and the general labelling provisions intended to inform consumers. the presence of nanomaterials in food is likely to raise food safety concerns. it is a serious mistake to remove the obligation to inform about them. i am voting for this report which seeks to prevent that.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which rejects the commission delegated regulation of 12[nbsp ]december[nbsp ]2013 amending regulation (eu) no[nbsp ]1169/2011 of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of food information to consumers (the [nbsp ]inco regulation) as regards the definition of 'manufactured nanomaterials'. such a delegated regulation would lead to discrimination between additives with similar properties, which could lead to a possible distortion of the market. it would hinder the proper provision of information to consumers and would go beyond the scope of the delegation given to the european commission.
in writing. in december 2012, the commission presented a draft delegated act to amend union legislation on the labelling of nanomaterials in food by the end of 2014. the commission wanted to exempt manufacturers from the obligation to mention 'nano' in front of ingredients used in nanometric form in food labelling. this was particularly the case with food additives which have long been used in the form of nanomaterials in our food. the reason given by the commission is that this would create confusion and a certain fear among consumers. it was thus giving in to the lobbying of the agri-food industry. i voted against this commission proposal and i am glad that a majority of members of the european parliament did the same. the european parliament has refused to allow the commission to take up the right of consumers to be informed. this exemption would have set a very unfortunate precedent in the face of the many unknowns and uncertainties in science, the environment and health related to nanomaterials, which are already abundant in our daily lives. the legislative framework on this technology is seriously lagging behind. support for technological innovation must not be at the expense of protecting health and the environment.
in writing. unlike the albrecht report on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, i voted against the report presented by my colleague dimitrios droutsas. the rapporteur has not, in my view, succeeded in striking a reasonable balance between the right to privacy on the one hand and the activities of investigation and prosecution on the other. the council and the experts in the judicial and police community consider that the compromises are neither feasible nor close to reality.
in writing. this legislation establishes legislation on the protection of personal data processed by law enforcement authorities for the purposes of crime prevention. i voted against this text, which presents too great a imbalance between the protection of personal data, which is admittedly a fundamental right that must be protected, and the necessary exploitation of them for security purposes. it is regrettable that such a desire to protect our fellow citizens is actually detrimental to them in the sense that the authorities responsible for fighting crime will be hampered in their work. i regret that such a vote seems neither realistic nor feasible.
in writing. i voted against the report by my colleague dimitrios droutsas which sought to introduce provisions relating to the protection of personal data specifically for judicial authorities. the report places disproportionate burdens on the authorities in the member states, which will unfairly hamper their mission to prevent and combat crime. although the protection of personal data is necessary, including in the fight against crime, it is regrettable that this results in an unnecessary burden on those responsible for protecting european citizens on a daily basis. i therefore regret the adoption of this report.
in writing. we must always uphold the highest standards of personal data protection. however, it is necessary to be realistic and pragmatic and not to impose requirements that are disproportionate. we must not slow down and hamper the work of the police force by imposing unnecessary or excessive bureaucratic constraints.
in writing. the regulation on the protection of personal data is accompanied by a directive specifically on the processing of such data in law enforcement and criminal law. the report significantly improves the commission's proposal, particularly as regards the conditions for using data (retention period, transparency), transfers to third countries and profiling. it calls for a number of impact analyses (including on video surveillance). the council must now hear our demands and accept this agreement. i am voting for this proposal which gives greater scope to the protection of personal data in the criminal field.
in writing. this report advocates the creation of an effective framework for the protection of european citizens' data. while proposing some improvements to strengthen the protection of citizens as a whole, the report welcomes the efforts made by the commission to create a unified framework for data protection and to harmonise the different systems existing in the member states. convinced that the protection of personal data is one of the major challenges of the digital economy for the years to come, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will protect the freedoms and fundamental rights of natural persons, in particular their right to the protection of personal data, and which will guarantee the free exchange of personal data by the competent authorities within the union. this regulation lays down rules on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention and detection of, investigation and prosecution of, or execution of criminal offences.
in writing. the new legislative package merges the four regulations on the single european sky into one regulation (marinescu report). i voted in favour of this report because it brings together the four key performance objectives of safety, the environment, capacity and economic efficiency. air traffic control agencies will have to provide better services at lower cost. the new legislative package aims to improve the independence and transparency of the setting of objectives and to strengthen the control of their application. in parallel, the independence of the performance review body will be strengthened and sanctions may be applied in case of failure of member states to meet targets.
in writing. the aim of this text is to strengthen competitiveness in the air transport sector by developing the 'single european sky'. i support such legislation, which streamlines airspace management. this vote is therefore a step towards better performance in the sector, which will be favourable to growth and the creation of highly skilled jobs in europe. finally, it is important to work towards reducing the impact of air transport on the climate and the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr marian-jean marinescu, on the implementation of the single european sky. the objective is to lay down rules for the establishment and proper functioning of the single european sky in order to preserve the current safety standards for air traffic and to contribute to the sustainable development of the air transport system, in particular by reducing the impact on the climate. the report proposes to improve the efficiency of support services, encourage industrial partnerships and strengthen the independence of national supervisory authorities and the role of the network manager. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reports on the implementation of the single european sky, which aim to strengthen the independence of national supervisory authorities, strengthen the role of the network manager, strengthen industrial partnerships and improve the performance of support services, such as meteorological, communication and navigation services, which could eventually be opened up to competition.
in writing. after the single european sky i in 2004 and the single european sky ii in 2009, the single european sky 2+ is now in place. what is the commission's new text? nothing new, except that the competition for airspace management services is accelerating. the commission's explanatory statement is clearer than ever on the objective pursued: 'with a workforce of 38% less, the us operator controls almost 70% of additional flights'. the commission states that 'the main causes of this productivity deficit in europe are the inadequate implementation and enforcement of the performance system, the inefficiency of the supervisory authorities and the disproportionate number of support services working for service providers'. incredible violence from this council. my priority in airspace management is the safety of the users. i cannot accept the dangerous, narrow and limited view of the commission and the marinescu report on this point. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this report which supports the very dogmatic approach of the european commission, which only sees the air navigation sector through a very liberal lens. beyond that, the provisions in this proposal are premature and in some respects excessive in relation to the balanced outcome achieved in the negotiations on the single sky 2 package. these reforms need to be timed.
in writing. while all the forecasts indicate that air traffic will increase sharply in the coming years, we are slow to take measures to cope with this development. as airspace remains highly fragmented, the increase in traffic is likely to result in increased congestion, with costs in economic, environmental and safety terms. i therefore voted for the marinescu report because the implementation of the single european sky will help to alleviate these problems. it will provide citizens with safer, shorter, more cost-effective flights, help our airlines to withstand international competition and support our aviation industry by improving our interoperability through the deployment of the sesar system. in particular, the implementation of the single european sky will play a positive role in growth, employment and competitiveness in europe by stimulating demand for skilled jobs, in particular in the field of air navigation and air traffic control. i hope that the diversity of actors, the complexity of procedures and the divergences between national and sectoral interests will not prevent us from achieving a genuine integration of european skies, for the benefit of all actors.
in writing. the european regulation known as the 'single european sky' is not new. it is part of the logic of the dismantling of public services. the european commission wants to go further and impose a separation between regulatory and supervisory authorities and service providers, as for railways. in france, this will mean a change in the status of the dgac, which could no longer be composed of the dsna (provider), the dsac (supervisory authority) and the dta (regulator). this may lead to operators refocusing on their core business, air traffic control, with the outsourcing of a whole series of activities, such as the design and publication of air navigation procedures, the maintenance of air navigation systems, the national civil aviation school... the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not left to the mercy of the market. the unions mobilized on 30 january against this overhaul. we support their demands and have therefore voted against.
in writing. the new legislative package merges the four regulations on the single european sky into one regulation (marinescu report). the easa regulation (sassoli report) is amended: certain items that overlap with the current regulation (ec) no[nbsp ]216/2008 have been deleted in the single european sky regulations. i therefore voted in favour of these amendments because they simplify the legal corpus and thus provide more clarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of such a text adapting the provisions on the european aviation safety agency (easa) to the legislative developments under way in the context of the development of the single european sky. in particular, it seems particularly important to clearly define the role of this agency in this new context and its powers. such rationalization of legislation on aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services provides greater clarity and thus improved aviation safety in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague david-maria sassoli on the simplification and clarification of the legislative framework for aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services. the report aims to put an end to the duplication of work between the single european sky regulations and the european aviation safety agency (easa). it also proposes to strengthen and extend the role of the easa. however, he stressed that security remained the agency's primary mission. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reports on the implementation of the single european sky, which aim to strengthen the independence of national supervisory authorities, strengthen the role of the network manager, strengthen industrial partnerships and improve the performance of support services, such as meteorological, communication and navigation services, which could eventually be opened up to competition.
in writing. after the single european sky (ses) i in 2004 and the ses ii in 2009, the ses 2+ is now the ses. these legislative packages are based on a liberal approach to air traffic management. safety is always secondary. what does this text suggest? he wants to apply civil aviation rules to some of the military aviation first. i refuse to do so because it is an infringement of national sovereignty. the commission's text then explains that 'civil aviation must be regulated in such a way as to promote its development, performance, interoperability and safety in a manner commensurate with the nature of each activity'. we can see here that the liberal logic puts safety first. the sassoli report saw this and reversed the wording, moving safety to the top of the list and adding points on environmental protection. however, it does not remove the passage on 'proportionate' nor does it call into question the application of civil rules to military aviation. safety must not be provided in a 'proportionate manner': it must be provided. that's it. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the report aims to extend consumer rights in the package travel and assisted travel services sector, which is still far too opaque and unfair to european consumers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens consumer protection in the internal market in the context of the purchase of package holidays and assisted travel services. tourism is a major sector in europe that must be promoted. it is important to close the legal gaps, in particular with regard to packages and travel services sold online, in order to give consumers confidence in these products and to strengthen this sector, which is mainly composed of smes. it is therefore essential to ensure uniform consumer protection in the single market. it is therefore a relevant proposal to regulate the responsibility of the organiser for the performance of the services included in the package.
in writing. i voted in favour of this legislative report on package travel and assisted travel services. the text allows account to be taken of developments in the tourism sector and in travellers' practices, generated in particular by the widespread use of online bookings, the liberalisation of the airline sector and the diversification of travellers' requests (personalised trips). the legislation thus adopted strengthens consumer protection (for example, through increased transparency and better information for travellers) while taking into account the concerns of professionals in the sector (organisers, travel agencies), by introducing more flexibility (in the case of business travel, for example) and by reducing excessive administrative burdens (in the case of brochures, for example). the current 1990 directive was to be revised to take account of new practices, but the aim was not to upset existing national economic models. thus, the option of making the organiser or retailer liable for non-compliance, as provided for in the 1990 directive, has been reintroduced, despite the commission's initial choice to make the organiser solely liable.
in writing. on wednesday 12 march, meps adopted a text on package travel and assisted travel services. the aim is to better protect travellers against organisers' insolvency and unilateral amendment of the travel contract by offering them the possibility to participate in an equivalent trip in the event of changes and cancellations. we have also improved the protection of the rights of travellers who purchase combinations of services for the same trip or holiday. i voted in favour of this text to ensure that european consumers can enjoy the travel services they have subscribed to, as the digital age is increasing the number of offers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which proposes to modernise the legislative framework for package holidays. these new provisions allow for adaptation to the digital age, which should facilitate the work of professionals in the sector and strengthen consumer protection.
in writing. the commission's text aims to improve the safety of people buying 'package holidays', more commonly known as 'package tours'. the text's provisions, which are rare, are generally rather positive and strike a balance between user protection and the necessary long-term readability for businesses. it would have been useful, however, to add to the information requirements the recommendations of the ministry of foreign affairs of the member state concerned in the case of travel abroad. however, the real problem is the mayer report, which wants to remove the obligation for providers to inform travellers of a travel access guarantee for people with reduced mobility and instead wants travellers to apply for it. does mr mayer realise that by doing so he is making it more difficult to choose a suitable journey for people with reduced mobility? does he realize that he's breaking the equality of citizens? i can't condone such a backsliding. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which strengthens the protection of european consumers buying package holidays by introducing the obligation to promptly repatriate the traveller in exceptional circumstances and stricter provisions in favour of consumers in the event of changes to prices or other terms of the contract. this text gives member states the possibility of extending the liability obligations laid down for organisers to retailers, who, for example in france, are the final sellers of the services.
in writing. as the european union is the world's leading tourist destination and an important economic sector in europe, a suitable legislative framework is needed. the current european legislation has shown its limits. it therefore needs to be reformed to take account of the importance of digitalisation in this area, by harmonising the different laws of the member states and adapting the existing rules to the needs of consumers and traders. i am glad that i voted for such legislation. we must ensure that european tourism is attractive by guaranteeing consumers the best possible protection, information and efficiency.
in writing. the package travel contract is not a contract like any other. it concerns a set of benefits reserved for a specific period. in the event of cancellation, the seller cannot 'stock' the trip as he would for a product for later resale. so we must be especially careful in our legal choices. the sector is largely composed of very small firms, which would not be able to offer a wide range of insurance cover without significantly increasing the prices of their products. the current system, based on the tour operator's proposal for supplementary insurance to be added to the package, seems to me to be balanced: on the one hand, travellers wishing to increase their coverage can choose to take out a specific policy; on the other hand, travellers wishing to increase their coverage can opt for a specific policy; secondly, as this guarantee is not reflected in the price of the package, it allows undertakings in the sector to maintain reasonable costs. it was therefore important to me to keep this system working, and it has proved to be successful.
in writing. given their impact on the climate, fluorinated gases are a real danger and their use should be phased out, as soon as economically viable solutions are available. i had tabled several amendments in the parliament's committee on the environment because i felt it was essential to ensure this transition to solutions that were less harmful to our environment, but also to take account of the very concrete economic realities faced by those who use these fluorinated gases: we must thus fight against the legal instability that undermines our economy. i am pleased with the final text, because we have set ourselves clear objectives to protect our climate and we are taking the time to achieve them. i therefore supported this compromise and called for a vote in favour of it.
in writing. this text represents a major step forward in the fight against global warming by reducing emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. these gases, which are found in refrigeration systems, aerosols and insulating foams, are particularly dangerous for the environment. at a time when reducing greenhouse gases and their impact on the environment is one of the major challenges facing the european union, it seems to me legitimate to seek to replace the use of such gases. this is why innovation for sustainable growth must be encouraged. moreover, it seems to me legitimate to prohibit their use gradually in certain sectors where other effective solutions are possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague bas eickhout on the european regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases. these greenhouse gases can be replaced by substitutes with lower or no climate impact, which would reduce annual emissions by two thirds by 2030 at relatively low cost. the replacement of these gases, particularly in refrigeration or air conditioning products, will be carried out differently depending on the global warming potential of the product concerned, so as not to place too much pressure on companies. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. - the montreal protocol provides for the global phase-out and reduction of most ozone-depleting substances. by 2050, the target is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% compared with 1990 levels. to achieve this, a reduction of non-co2 emissions (including fluorinated greenhouse gases) of 72-73% by 2030 is required. unfortunately, though all other greenhouse gases have been reduced, emissions of fluorinated gases in the eu have increased by 60% since 1990. the proposal maintains the current provisions of the f-gas regulation, with some adjustments to ensure better implementation and enforcement by national authorities. the most important new measure is the introduction of new provisions at european level for the phasing out of the marketing and use of hfcs, which are widely used in the air conditioning and commercial refrigeration sectors.
in writing. with the majority of my fellow meps, i voted in favour of a directive to limit the emission of fluorinated greenhouse gases, known as hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs). replacing fluorinated gases with new, less polluting products could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by two thirds by 2030 and limit global warming. we have therefore introduced a quota for hfcs and banned their use in certain appliances, such as household refrigerators and freezers, for which less harmful substitutes are already available on the market. in order to give industry time to adapt its products to the new regulation, we have guaranteed sufficient time for the implementation of the bans by 2022-2025.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which aims to limit the emissions of fluorinated gases, which have the greatest global warming potential, in the european union. the amendment of the rules must, however, be realistically made with a view to moving towards equipment, such as household refrigerators and freezers, containing less harmful substitutes.
in writing. reducing fluorinated gas emissions is an important and necessary measure. unfortunately, this text lacks ambition and should have proposed, for example, a general ban on the placing on the european market of new products containing fluorinated gases. the timetable for the gradual reduction of the maximum quantities of hfcs placed on the market should also have been more ambitious, in order to be in line with the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. nevertheless, it has the merit of not relying on an unlikely market mechanism to solve a major problem. only drastic reduction and control of greenhouse gas emissions, accompanied by significant public investment and financial support, will solve the ecological crisis. i am voting for this text in order to encourage interesting measures, although unfortunately not ambitious enough in the context of an ecosocialist policy.
in writing. fluorinated greenhouse gases are widely used in heat pumps, air conditioning systems and refrigeration equipment. their warming potential is 100 to 1,000 times greater than that of co2. they contributed to 2.2% of the eu-15 emissions in 2011 and could contribute to 8% of total greenhouse gas emissions in 2050. it is therefore important, as well as the fight against co2 emissions, to combat the emission of fluorinated gases. to do this, the report proposes to tax those responsible for these emissions (€10 per tonne of co2 equivalent). the text also proposes the introduction of a mechanism for reducing quotas. a more ambitious text could have been reached, but i believe that the commitments obtained are positive and constitute a first step towards reducing emissions of fluorinated gases. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion of the tran committee, i voted in favour of this text which aims to ensure a high level of environmental protection by reducing fluorinated gas emissions by two thirds by 2030 compared to their current level. the main advances of this regulation are: a gradual reduction of fluorinated gases over time, a total ban on the use of these gases for a range of equipment and products, additional requirements for the training and certification of personnel and additional reporting obligations should improve the monitoring of the use of fluorinated gases.
in writing. the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises the right of european citizens to move freely within the union (article 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union). the directive aims to clarify the rights deriving from the free movement of workers and defines precisely the areas in which any discrimination on grounds of nationality is prohibited. after negotiations with the council and the commission, agreement was reached to adopt the text at first reading. i am happy with the agreement, so i voted in favour.
in writing. it seems necessary to emphasise that while the free movement of persons is a right and an opportunity for the european union, it could not be done at the expense of the social law of the member states and thus constitute an unacceptable social dumping within the union.
in writing. while it contained some interesting provisions, i could not support this text, which is aimed at strengthening the freedom of movement for workers, without acknowledging the problems it creates, particularly those linked to social dumping. my abstention was also motivated by the ambiguity in the text concerning the mutual recognition of the various types of civil union and their rights, an area of law which must remain the sovereignty of the states.
in writing. i decided to abstain on the final vote on this report because it concealed the many flaws which the principle of free movement of workers can cause. of course, it is necessary to ensure that migrant workers can enjoy their rights and be protected against abusive treatment. however, the european union cannot continue to turn a blind eye to the intolerable social dumping situations created by free movement. it allows, for example, workers to be employed in a member state other than their country of origin, under less favourable social conditions than local workers. these dumping situations are tragic for our companies and our citizens and lead many of them to unemployment or bankruptcy. i regret that these aspects are not given more emphasis in the text adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which, without introducing new legislation, will make it possible to apply more uniformly the rights conferred by the union on workers and members of their families in the context of free movement. contact points will be set up to provide information and assistance to migrant workers and their employers. in particular, each member state will have to provide appropriate means of redress in cases of discrimination. these appeals may be brought through an ngo or other body which supports individual workers.
in writing. on wednesday 12[nbsp ]march, the european parliament voted in favour of a directive on the free movement of workers within the european union. the text covers all union citizens working in another member state and includes crossborder workers and seasonal workers. it provides for better information to citizens who decide to go to work in another eu country about their rights and obligations, in particular through national contact points to assist such workers. the directive will also improve the protection of workers, in particular health and safety conditions at work. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the free movement of workers must be better regulated in order to guarantee equal rights for all and to avoid unfair competition.
in writing. the mutual recognition of the various types of civil union is a matter for the member states. that is why i abstained in the final vote on this report.
in writing. regulation (eu) no[nbsp ]492/2011 specifies the rights arising from the free movement of workers and sets out the specific areas in which discrimination on grounds of nationality is prohibited. however, despite these legal provisions, there are still many problems of discrimination based on nationality and problems related to the mobility of workers (in particular with regard to access to employment, working conditions, social benefits, access to training, etc.) for 'mobile' workers. the aim of this directive is to provide a better tool to effectively protect mobile workers against such discrimination. it should be noted that this directive does not concern 'posted workers', which is tantamount to creating a situation of inequality between workers and a fragmentation of the labour market. nevertheless, this report is intended to offer workers a slight degree of protection. i vote for it.
in writing. the free movement of workers is one of the four fundamental rights of european citizens. it gives every european citizen the right to move freely to another member state in order to work there. the current text put to the vote by meps aims to strengthen the previous regulation on the free movement of workers, as many problems of discrimination based on nationality and administrative problems persist for workers on the move. the aim of this text is to be anti-discriminatory and to provide stronger support for migrant workers. i voted yes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve and promote the application of article [nbsp ]45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and regulation (eu) no [nbsp ]492/2011 throughout the territory of the european union by establishing a common general framework of appropriate provisions and measures for a better, more uniform application of the rights conferred by union legislation on workers and members of their families exercising their right to freedom of movement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the draft directive to facilitate the exercise of workers' rights in the context of the free movement of workers. there are already european regulations on the rights arising from freedom of movement, but there are still many practical problems, as well as significant discrimination against european workers when they want to settle permanently in another member state. the new directive submitted to the european parliament aims to combat such discrimination on grounds of nationality, to close the gaps that still exist between legal provisions and practice and to strengthen rights. the report makes a number of advances, such as the recognition of the rights of family members and equal treatment with national workers in matters of employment, pay and housing. it also provides remedies where these rights are not respected. i regret, however, that posted workers (those who come to work in another member state for a short period) are not covered by this text, because it creates inequalities between workers, causes a fragmentation of the labour market and fuels social dumping.
in writing. prevention is always better than cure, including in relation to the environment: environmental impact studies are a very good thing, because they allow to predict the environmental consequences of an investment and thus protect our environment and improve the use of funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. however, the problem was also to put the cursor in the right place for the obligations to be respected. we must be fully aware that additional obligations can also impede investment, growth and employment. at a time when europe is only just beginning to raise its head, my group has thrown out all unnecessary, ineffective or redundant measures so that this text remains an effective tool for improving projects with an environmental impact. the question of shale gas remains. the european parliament had called for strong binding legislation and it is regrettable that the european commission has so far only proposed simple recommendations. it is clear that we must both facilitate exploration, in order to know what wealth europe has at its disposal, and strictly control exploitation to avoid damaging environmental degradation.
in writing. although this report states that it is essential to take account of the environmental effects of public and private projects, i can only deplore its weaknesses, particularly in relation to the exploitation of shale gas.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to regulate environmental impact studies and environmental impact assessments of certain public and private projects. this legislation should help to ensure better protection of the environment and of european citizens. i particularly support the efforts made to reduce the unnecessary administrative burden that may be placed on project promoters and unnecessarily hamper their development. this streamlining of procedures is beneficial for the competitiveness of companies and hence for jobs in europe, thus avoiding significant additional costs. environmental efficiency and economic efficiency are thus precisely combined in this text.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague andrea zanoni on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain projects through impact studies. these will have to take into account new environmental factors such as biodiversity and climate, while providing information on risk assessment and hydromorphological changes. the text ensures greater transparency and facilitates public participation through a central computer portal while limiting conflicts of interest and derogations. i therefore welcome the adoption of this balanced report.
in writing. certain public and private projects, such as the construction of motorways or mining sites, must be subject to an environmental impact assessment (eia) in order to be authorised by the member states. the european commission had proposed a revision of this directive to simplify procedures and take account of new environmental factors. unfortunately, the text presented to us after negotiations between the european parliament and the council will have the effect of further complicating the current procedures, while the french legislation revised in 2011 remains controversial. i regret that the european parliament has adopted this directive, thus aggravating the 'over-administration' which is already severely penalising our companies. i am glad, however, that the directive adopted provides for a reduction in the time needed for impact studies, in order to avoid the blocking of job-creating sites.
in writing. i voted in favour of the revision of the text on minimum requirements for the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects. the aim of this text is to achieve a high level of environmental protection, to simplify procedures and to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens. the report provides for a reduction in public consultations. new factors such as biodiversity will have to be taken into account, transparency and public participation will be facilitated by the creation of a central internet portal, and rules on the management of conflicts of interest will be strengthened.
in writing. this text proposes some positive improvements to the directive on the assessment of the environmental impact of public and private projects. however, the desire to simplify administrative procedures or to reduce the number of projects which at the end of the preliminary verification procedure will be subject to a mandatory environmental impact assessment is counterproductive from an environmental point of view. the text also enshrines the european union's capitulation to the oil and gas lobbies with regard to shale gas and oil. while it is necessary to ban fracking and shale gas exploitation for reasons primarily of climate, the environment committee of the european parliament has not even been able to maintain the (largely insufficient) position it had been set and to introduce an obligation to evaluate all projects for the exploration, evaluation and exploitation of shale gas and oil! the union, which has never supported the yasuni itt project in ecuador, reaffirms once again that its vision is that of the race for hydrocarbon extraction, without taking into account the immense challenge posed by the urgent decarbonisation of our 'developed' societies. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which makes it possible to update this major european policy which has made it possible to take account of the consequences of our actions on the environment at each stage of the major infrastructure projects we undertake. this directive provides a framework for shale gas projects, although i would have liked to see these assessments made compulsory on a systematic basis. the fact that the conservative countries are blocking the european council is a very acceptable compromise which i have supported.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the assessment of the environmental impact of public and private projects, because it makes good progress in environmental matters: improving the definition of biodiversity, better management of impact studies in terms of transparency, citizen participation, precision of criteria, or strengthening the fight against conflicts of interest or penalties in case of misapplication. many environmental associations are in favour of adopting the text, considering that it largely passes the cost/benefit test. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. it also lists high impact projects, such as deep boreholes, for which an environmental impact assessment should be considered, irrespective of their size. the report, therefore, although not perfect and pending specific legislation on the issue of shale gas, has the merit of setting a framework in this area, while leaving member states free to take more ambitious measures at national level.
in writing. in october 2012, the commission presented a revision of the 2011 directive on public or private projects requiring an environmental impact assessment (eia) and on those subject to a preliminary verification procedure. the proposal specifies the criteria for choosing between the two procedures and lists a number of new projects that may be submitted to the procedure in order to ensure compliance with the union's environmental objectives. the european parliament adopted by a very large majority the agreement with the council, which makes some improvements to the 2012 directive, such as the introduction of the principle of global impact, a public consultation and the obligation for the developer to provide a dossier of up to 30 pages summarising the main information related to the project (e.g. impacts on ecosystems, use of natural resources, consideration of reasonable alternatives, etc.). however, the agreement excludes shale gas projects using hydraulic fracturing, the health and environmental consequences of which are becoming increasingly well known. i therefore voted against this revision because there is no justification for excluding the extraction of shale gas at the expense of protecting the environment and the health of europeans.
in writing. the report is primarily technical in nature and aims to align the legislative framework for external trade statistics with third countries with the provisions of the lisbon treaty. i voted in favour of this report, as it does not present any difficulties.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to adapt the legislation on external trade statistics with third countries to the new provisions established by the treaty of lisbon. the european commission now has the power to adopt delegated acts to amend non-essential elements of legislative acts and implementing acts. in order to ensure the consistency of european legislation, it seems to me important to adapt the legislation on statistics on external trade with third countries. it is however appropriate to limit this delegation of power to the commission to five years in order to strengthen parliamentary scrutiny of such acts.
in writing. - the commission proposal aims to align regulation (ec) no 471/2009 of the european parliament and of the council on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries to the system of implementing and delegated acts introduced by the treaty of lisbon. the commission has also been able to provide the necessary information to the council and parliament on the implementation of the new constitutional regime. the regulation on community statistics will thus be the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy to refer to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which aims to align comitology with the regime of delegated and implementing acts, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, in the field of external trade statistics with third countries.
in writing. the commission proposal under consideration aims to align the regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 6 may 2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. this is to enable the commission to legislate by means of delegated and implementing acts in the areas concerning trade statistics. statistics are a political issue which cannot be left to the commission's discretion, especially since it is on the basis of these statistics that we will implement solidarity protectionism. i vote against it.
in writing. the report on the alignment of european legislation on external trade statistics highlights two issues: the need for information on the union's trade with third countries and the adaptation of the european regulation to the new powers conferred on the european parliament by the lisbon treaty. the first is very important in terms of foreign trade. the union needs information on its trade with third countries in order to quantify its position on the international scene. the second is more about the interinstitutional dynamics of europe. the treaty of lisbon has given parliament greater legislative powers. it is only right that the only european institution directly elected by european citizens should have substantial power over european legislation. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. the european parliament is a remarkable institution working for the welfare of the european people. the powers conferred on it by the treaty must be guaranteed, while taking care to respect a certain interinstitutional balance.
in writing. the copernicus programme will enable the european union to collect information on its environment, i.e. on land, in the marine environment and in the atmosphere. it will be of great use in the fight against climate change and for the protection of european citizens. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which extends the copernicus programme on the european union's space policy for the period 2014-2020. it aims to establish a european earth observation capacity and provide a land, marine and atmospheric monitoring service, as well as an emergency management service and security support. it also helps to strengthen europe's competitiveness, promote innovative businesses and create highly skilled jobs. it provides the information on the environment needed to make effective policy decisions.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text, which will enable the implementation of the copernicus programme for the period 2014-2020. this earth observation programme is a flagship programme of the european union which contributes to environmental protection and the fight against climate change. it strengthens the union's position as a key player in the field of advanced technology. copernicus will directly benefit european citizens and facilitate decision-making in many areas, such as transport, urban planning and disaster management policies. the data processed by copernicus will provide local and regional authorities with the information they need to make effective decisions. finally, copernicus also represents a springboard for competitiveness and employment in europe, particularly for smes, which make up a large part of the space sector. it is estimated that 85 000 new jobs could be created between 2015 and 2030. as rapporteur for the epp, i am pleased that we have managed to provide this programme with adequate funding, with a budget of €4291.48 million for this period, and an effective governance system to meet these objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr vittorio prodi, on the copernicus programme. the report aims to set up the copernicus earth observation and monitoring programme for the period 2014-2020 in the continuity of gmes (global monitoring for environment and security). copernicus is a flagship programme of the european union, which contributes to environmental protection, the fight against climate change and the promotion of the union as a key player in the field of advanced technology. this programme strengthens europe's competitiveness, promotes innovative enterprises and creates highly skilled jobs. it also aims to ensure the uninterrupted provision of data and information on environmental and safety issues. it is therefore a real step forward for europe's space policy. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. on wednesday 12 march, the european parliament adopted the copernicus programme, which aims to install european satellites to monitor climate change and improve the safety of european citizens. in particular, it will provide a land, marine and atmospheric monitoring service, as well as an emergency management service and security support. i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to ensure the independence of the european union in space matters and to have our own satellites. the programme will also invest in innovation and foster growth and job creation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the copernicus programme, which aims to establish a european earth observation capability and provide a land, marine and atmospheric monitoring service, as well as an emergency management service and security support. this programme is a very positive element in furthering the union's knowledge of its environment, particularly in the field of climate change.
in writing. the copernicus programme covered by the text submitted is an extension of the existing earth observation satellite programme, gmes (global monitoring for environment and security). the data collected should be useful in the fields of environmental protection, climate, civil protection and security, but also in the economy. the general objectives are therefore absolutely useful, particularly in view of the ecosocialist political project we are pursuing (the monitoring of marine environments is an aspect of the copernicus programme). however, the report is part of a liberal economic framework: it promotes subcontracting and no compensation is envisaged for private commercial users. finally, there is still some ambiguity as to the share of security or border control issues in the copernicus missions. for these reasons, i could abstain, but i want to encourage decisive progress that will allow tomorrow, if we choose, independence from the united states. i vote for it.
in writing. copernicus is a european earth observation programme launched by the european space agency (esa) and the european union, aimed at providing europe with an operational and autonomous earth observation capability. the aim is to streamline the use of environmental and safety data from multiple sources in order to provide reliable information and services. this report covers the period 2014-2020 and provides for €3.786 billion to be allocated to the programme. copernicus is a programme of great importance in many areas (urban planning, transport, air quality, water and forest management, natural disasters, monitoring of ocean ecosystems, observation of climate change, etc.). i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes the extension of the copernicus programme for the period 2014-2020. copernicus is the new name for the european earth observation programme, gmes (global monitoring for environment and security). it covers all activities aimed at ensuring the uninterrupted provision of accurate and reliable data and information on environmental and safety issues to users responsible for policy development, implementation and monitoring in the european union and its member states.
in writing. space programmes are of particular importance in ensuring the european union's position as a key player in the field of advanced technologies. the new copernicus earth observation programme will help europe to achieve this goal. in these times of crisis, the union must rely on its high capacity for innovation to strengthen its competitiveness potential in relation to the rest of the world. the programme will benefit the creation of highly skilled jobs, the promotion of innovative enterprises and the competitiveness of smes, which are largely in the space sector. in addition, copernicus will provide a wealth of environmental information, which will help to protect the environment and combat climate change. i am very glad that i voted for such a programme. it is by betting on innovation that europe will become more competitive with the rest of the world.
in writing. the global positioning system (gnss) is essential for navigation by sea, air and road. faced with the american, russian, chinese and indian projects, the european union developed its own project, which was essential to ensure the independence of the european continent. i voted for this report because it updates and improves the legal framework for this major project.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to ensure the independence of the european gnss agency, the global navigation satellite system agency, in the performance of its activities relating to the homologation of the safety of systems. i welcome the desire to ensure that the safety accreditation body of this agency can operate in complete independence, without pressure from other bodies. that is why it seems to me, among other things, essential to ensure a high level of transparency in the european gnss agency and to prevent conflicts of interest which could undermine the security of the space sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague amalia sartori on the european gnss agency (global navigation satellite system). the objective of this report is to ensure the independence of the agency's activities related to the safety certification of its systems. since january 2014, a large part of the tasks related to the operation of the galileo and egnos systems have been entrusted to the european gnss agency. it was therefore important to ensure that the security accreditation board could carry out its task in an independent manner. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. - the establishment of the european gnss agency is of major importance, especially considering that its implementation has shown the possibility of a large number of networks and equipment connected to it. it is therefore an important tool at european level for connectivity, security and data transmission. for these reasons, it will also be necessary to provide, as part of its implementation, for a series of adjustments that can prevent any destabilising variables.
in writing. the mission of the european gnss agency (global navigation satellite system) is to help european entrepreneurs and companies, in particular high-tech smes and business incubators, to take advantage of the commercial advantages offered by european space programmes. i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal to extend the missions of the european gnss agency and to strengthen the prevention of conflicts of interest and the monitoring of the agency's work, by involving the european parliament more closely.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendments to the basic regulation of the european gnss agency, which give it additional operational tasks. in addition, new rules provide for the reinforcement of the prevention of conflicts of interest and the respect of gender equality within the agency.
in writing. the gnss or galileo system will enable europeans to have a satellite navigation system independent of gps, in the hands of the united states. however, this hope for independence is immediately tempered by the concept of 'interoperability' which is very present in the report and which means that this system can be exploited by the united states, in line with the pooling of resources, as envisaged in the smart defense project. the agency responsible for the management of this programme is also placed under the authority of the commission. i cannot support this, so i should vote against it, but i want to support an instrument of independence from the united states, which france can always take over when the time comes, given its efforts to achieve it. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out the rules establishing the european global navigation satellite system (gnss) agency, in particular those relating to the governance of the operational phases of the european gnss systems and those relating to the agency's security responsibilities. security requirements are central to the design, construction and operation of the infrastructures resulting from the galileo and egnos programmes.
in writing. europe's position on the international stage also depends on its location in space. when completed, programmes such as galileo and corpernicus will put the european union on a par with the united states and russia in satellite data. the european gnss agency helps european entrepreneurs and companies, especially high-tech smes, to take full advantage of the benefits of these two programmes. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. an extension of the european gnss agency's remit will open up countless opportunities to increase european power on the international stage.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the evaluation and prioritisation of the union's relations with the eastern partnership countries. he called for the eu to develop its relations with the countries of the region.
in writing. this text deals with the eu's relations with the eastern partnership countries and the importance of strategic links with these countries. however, it repeatedly stressed that these countries had the door open to apply for the status of candidate countries for membership of the european union. i could not support such a text because i believe that the union should take a long-term break in its enlargement policy. i therefore refuse to encourage any such move.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pawel robert kowal on the evaluation and prioritisation of the union with the eastern partnership countries (armenia, ukraine, azerbaijan, moldova, belarus, georgia). the report calls for a stronger eu commitment to the implementation of the eastern partnership and calls on the european commission to draw up a green paper on the future of the partnership after the vilnius summit. it called for a further strengthening of the eastern partnership's multilateralism and for better crossborder and regional cooperation, particularly in the fields of transport, the environment, border security and energy security. the report also stresses the need to raise awareness of the european union in the eastern partnership countries and calls for the eastern partnership to be seen as an ambitious programme. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the eastern partnership, which aims to strengthen the political, economic and cultural european integration of the eastern partners. this partnership should be subject to a precise analysis of its successes and failures in order to gain new impetus.
in writing. i am voting against this report on the eastern partnership, which is not up to the challenge, especially in the current context of the recent events in ukraine. he's a lunar man. in other words, his imperial aggressiveness is unveiled. already last september, during a vote in parliament on the union's relations with russia, we argued that the choice of the union should not exclude russia from its relations with the east, in the interests of the region itself. it didn't work. today, this report is back to the burden on the "deep and comprehensive" free trade agreements, which is equivalent to imposing structural reforms on the peoples of the eastern neighbourhood. long sentences and nice words about "friendship and good neighborliness" cannot hide it. as for visa-free regimes, they should not be made conditional on readmission agreements, as in the case of moldova, which the right-wing polish rapporteur forgets to mention.
in writing. i voted in favour of this ambitious proposal which demonstrates our openness and commitment to the development of the european project. the crisis should not hold us back but rather encourage us to look beyond mere political engagement and to turn our attention to the citizens of the eastern partnership countries by focusing on policies that will lead to tangible results, such as the visa-free regime. this report should encourage us to adopt a bold political strategy for the development of the eastern partnership and open the way for our ideas.
in writing. the eastern partnership enables the european union to have intensive and targeted economic and political relations with its eastern neighbours. we see through the crisis situation in ukraine the importance of a european strategy towards these eastern neighbours. the aim of such a strategy is first and foremost to guarantee the security of european citizens and that of neighbouring countries. the programme is, on the whole, a success, but it still has some shortcomings, as the vilnius summit and the crisis in ukraine have revealed. i voted in favour of this report. the european parliament is expressing its desire not to repeat the mistakes of the past and to adapt its strategy to the present situation. the european union must improve its strategy towards its eastern neighbours in order to strengthen the stability, security and prosperity of the region. europe must spread its democratic values to all its neighbours and it will do so through a suitable eastern partnership. but i remind you, i am asking for a 10-year moratorium on any new membership. europe must take time to focus on itself before thinking about enlargement.
in writing. i voted against this report on the union's relations with the eastern partnership countries in the framework of its neighbourhood policy (armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova, ukraine and belarus). while the current context of the union's relations with the east is tense to say the least, this relationship still has the same old, old recipes. it 'reminds the purpose of the eastern partnership: market economy'; welcomes the establishment of deep and comprehensive free trade agreements (with the republic of moldova and georgia) and readmission agreements; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. if the majority of this parliament has not understood that the people of europe's neighbourhood, and in particular the ukrainians, are looking for something other than a relationship of economic dominance, whether russian or european, then i predict a painful awakening for them.
in writing. the european parliament's civil liberties committee was tasked in 2013 with investigating media allegations of mass surveillance of eu institutions and member states by the us national security agency (nsa). this report concludes this inquiry, summarising the work carried out. several points were sensitive, notably the impact on the ongoing negotiations with the united states. i, for my part, supported the amendment concerning the suspension of the negotiations on the ttip free trade agreement. the final text was satisfactory, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. it seemed legitimate for the european parliament to react strongly to reports confirming the inappropriate use of the nsa's surveillance programme. these should in particular influence the negotiations currently taking place between the european union and the united states.
in writing. with this very large majority vote, we meps have expressed our rejection of mass surveillance of citizens. this is the only report to date on nsa activities around the world. i particularly welcome the welcome reminder of the primacy of fundamental rights and personal data legislation in the european parliament's request to suspend the agreements on the security sphere and on banking data between the european union and the united states, and, moreover, the conditionality of its vote on ttip on the respect of european legislation in this field by the united states. finally, the report points to the mass surveillance activities of several countries, including france, thus showing the need to sweep our own doorsteps.
in writing. this vote on the nsa surveillance programme is intended to send a strong signal in favour of protecting european citizens. the european union will not under any circumstances accept that a third country violates the fundamental rights of its citizens. the fight against terrorism cannot be used as an excuse for mass spying between friendly countries. a necessary balance must be struck between security issues and the protection of fundamental freedoms, namely respect for privacy and the protection of personal data. the united states is a key partner of the european union. i regret that this mass spying scandal has damaged the trust between these two parties.
in writing. the massive and systematic surveillance of citizens, especially europeans, by the nsa is totally unacceptable and certainly has no connection with national security or the fight against terrorism. this highly invasive collection of information, which provides more information on individuals than targeted interceptions, is not acceptable. in the face of these serious facts, we call for the suspension of the swift agreements and the agreement on the security sphere with the united states. i also voted against giving consent to the free trade agreement currently being negotiated between the european union and the united states (ttip), unless the issue of data transfer is explicitly excluded. i also supported an appeal to the commission and the member states to provide international protection against criminal prosecution for whistleblowers. while there is no room for hypocrisy in this case and while it must be admitted that europe is not exempt from this kind of espionage, it does not operate on the same scale as the americans, far from it. in the face of these abuses, we need to reform our data protection regime more than ever.
in writing. the alleged nsa wiretapping is a very serious matter. the violation of the privacy and intimacy of european citizens with impunity and with the complicity of internet operators is intolerable. the wiretaps must continue to be strictly controlled. only identified and characterised threats to the territory can justify targeted interception by a third state. the union is adrift and this episode confirms that the authority and chain of responsibility are lacking within the european institutions. the european parliament therefore sent a strong message by recommending that certain agreements be suspended until the us and european authorities and the member states have taken concrete measures to better regulate the hearings in accordance with the law, the principles of proportionality, reciprocity and strict necessity. the crisis of confidence which has affected relations between the union and the united states has had a fatal impact on the confidence which citizens place in the european institutions. if we are not able to protect our citizens, we may worry about the relevance of our action at european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague claude moraes on the nsa's surveillance programme against the european union and following up the libe committee's inquiry. the report condemns the unjustified surveillance of european citizens and leaders by the united states. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. - developments in technology have helped to produce a fundamental change in the work and practices of intelligence agencies. cooperation between europe and the united states of america is of the utmost importance for our common security and it is vital that relations continue to be based on the principles of democracy, freedom, justice and solidarity. data protection and privacy remain our primary objectives and we will work to ensure that us action respects these rights of european citizens, in the knowledge of the need for a joint effort in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. in september 2013, the european parliament instructed its civil liberties committee to investigate edward snowden's claims about the surveillance programmes of the us national security agency (nsa). the investigation has provided irrefutable evidence that the intelligence services of the united states and certain member states have collected and stored data on citizens on a very large scale and without distinction or suspicion. so i have adopted a resolution with my colleagues in the house strongly condemning mass surveillance activities. while it is essential to equip our intelligence services with effective tools to combat terrorism, we must strike the right balance between security measures and the protection of citizens' privacy and data. we have asked the united states to carry out a thorough investigation to dispel any doubts about possible political and economic espionage of the european union. we also called on the member states and the united states to reform their legislation and strengthen controls on data collection.
in writing. we need to ask the right questions: how can we rebuild trust and a balanced partnership with the us without naivety, and how can we better protect our citizens and businesses? it is up to us to build our technological independence and to set up european cloud computing services to better protect our personal data. we must also send a strong message to the united states. but suspending the tftp agreement is not the answer. this agreement is essential to the fight against terrorism and it cannot be suspended without any evidence. it is the safe harbour agreement that we should suspend, it is the free trade agreement with the united states that we should try to weigh. the economic leverage is much more powerful.
in writing. this report aims to improve the protection of citizens' personal data. it is the result of an investigation by the competent parliamentary committee, following the revelations of edward snowden's spying on europeans, but offers the latter neither help nor asylum. i note that he is referring to the security problem of the transfer of air passenger name records (pnr) to the united states. we'd denounced him from the start. it also called for the suspension of the terrorist finance tracking programme (tftp). again, it is not for lack of having alerted about these swift agreements. the report does not, however, deny some fundamental points. the big transatlantic market remains on the agenda, no suspension here. it simply calls on the united states "to review its legislation without delay in order to bring it into line with international law". as things stand, the fundamental rights of citizens are being relegated to the background of so-called economic interests. edward snowden is mentioned but not welcomed in europe, typical hypocrisy of europe at the expense of the united states. however, it is still too much for the right in europe. i am voting for the final text, so as not to prevent major revisions in the protection of personal data, particularly at member state level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which condemns the large-scale, systematic and indiscriminate collection of personal data from innocent people, which often includes intimate personal information. i welcome the adoption of the report by claude moraes and strongly condemn the vote by a section of the european right which, half a century late, is becoming stalinist by endorsing the actions of the nsa. europe, to be respected, must use credible sanctions. the report recommends that the free trade agreement currently under discussion between the european union and the united states (ttip) be rejected as long as the issue of data transfer is not explicitly excluded. the european parliament called for the suspension of the agreements on the security area and swift/tftp on interbank data transfer as an immediate protection measure.
in writing. ensuring the security of european citizens and respecting the right to privacy are two of the european union's fundamental values. our fellow citizens should not have to choose between the two! the behaviour of the united states has been particularly inappropriate. the protection of personal data of european citizens must be guaranteed. it is by finding the right balance between public safety and respect for privacy that we will succeed in regaining the trust of citizens.
in writing. the protection of the privacy of european citizens and the protection of their personal data is one of the pillars of democracy and the rule of law. it is not only up to the states to enforce this right but also up to the european union to legislate in this respect. the measures adopted by the nsa constitute a real invasion of privacy and a deliberate violation of the fundamental rights of european citizens. this report sets out the various measures that can be taken to ensure the best possible protection of citizens. it is necessary to adopt it and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. this report, which we decided to write following the scandal that erupted in the summer of 2013, is an opportunity to restore some truths. in particular, the negotiating teams of the eu-us trade agreement, also called "ttip" after its acronym in english, consider that the wiretapping case cannot be linked to the negotiations of the agreement. that is not my position, and i made that clear when we voted on this report. in my view, peaceful negotiations cannot take place if the atmosphere of trust with the partner is broken or not restored. it is nothing more than the expression of a wider concern of the citizens about the conditions under which this agreement is being negotiated.
in writing. the surveillance of european citizens and their leaders by the nsa, the us security agency, constitutes a serious breach of fundamental rights and freedoms. this massive spying case, revealed by edward snowden, has also damaged the relationship of trust between the european union and the united states. it was essential that europe should speak out and say that this breach of the contract with the united states is unacceptable. the suspension of the safe harbour agreement allowing companies established in the united states to receive personal data from the european union is a strong signal to this effect. beyond this agreement, i reiterate my call last july to postpone our negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment treaty. i 'm not .
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the investigation into the nsa wiretapping case. the aim of the labour rapporteur was to carry out as thorough a study as possible of this scandal, despite the refusal of the us authorities to take part in the inquiry. in adopting the report, europe condemns 'the large-scale, systematic and indiscriminate collection of personal data of innocent people, which often includes intimate personal information'. i regret that a section of the european right voted against this report, adopting a backward position on individual freedoms, denoting unconditional atlanticism. the report also calls for the rejection of the free trade agreement currently under discussion between the european union and the united states (ttip), as long as the issue of data transfer, in particular, is not explicitly excluded. i wanted to go further by supporting the request for an immediate suspension of the ttip negotiations, which unfortunately did not receive a majority. finally, i was one of the majority who, as a matter of immediate protection, supported the request for suspension of the agreements on the safe harbour and swift/tftp on interbank data transfer.
in writing. i voted for the european parliament's report on its inquiry into the nsa surveillance programme and the surveillance bodies in various member states and their impact on the fundamental rights of european citizens. in the wake of edward snowden's revelations about mass surveillance, few governments and national parliaments have questioned the merits of such surveillance programs. with this report from the [nbsp ]libe committee, the european parliamentarians are the only ones, so far, to demand accountability for this scandal. this report falls short of what can be expected, not least because it was the subject of a lack of political will on the part of a large proportion of parliamentarians and a major campaign of deconstruction by the right wing of the house, but it was important to support it in order to reaffirm respect for fundamental freedoms and rights. i regret that a majority of the house has rejected the request to the member states to grant asylum to mr snowden and does not clearly ask for the suspension of various agreements and negotiations with the united states (pnr, ttip, etc.) until they provide guarantees on respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. this report proposes to extend the use of the scoreboard to provide objective data on the functioning of national justice systems. the rapporteur proposes that this scoreboard be extended to criminal justice in particular. the report also reiterates the european parliament's call for the creation of a mechanism for regular assessment of member states' compliance with the eu's fundamental values, accompanied by a system of sanctions. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is always room for improvement in the protection of fundamental rights, and these mechanisms can help to do that.
in writing. while cooperation between member states, particularly in the field of crime prevention, is no longer in doubt, it seems essential that we should have a european public prosecutor's office in the near future in order to increase its effectiveness.
in writing. this text encourages the establishment of evaluation mechanisms for criminal justice and the rule of law in the european union. i could not support such a text because i believe that it is not the european union's responsibility to assess criminal justice systems, which are the responsibility of the member states. the proposal to establish a rule of law mechanism allowing the union to monitor member states' respect for fundamental values goes beyond respect for the principle of subsidiarity. it is important not to politicize the system of protection of fundamental rights, which must remain in the hands of the judicial bodies.
in writing. in order to ensure that the judicial systems of our countries are no longer threatened as was the case in hungary under the orban government, we need to establish a european evaluation system that will strengthen mutual trust, which is a key element in the effective implementation of mutual recognition tools. we must protect the independence of the judiciary, judges and prosecutors of the member states from political interference. that is why i voted for the report by my colleague, mr kinga goncz, which recalls the values and principles which should guide our actions. in this connection, we call on the commission to work towards a genuinely effective mechanism to ensure regular monitoring of member states' compliance with the union's fundamental values, as set out in article 2 of the eu treaty, which would serve as the basis for an early warning instrument. sanctions should also apply in the event of systematic violations of the principles of democracy and the rule of law or of a dysfunctional balance of power in a member state.
in writing. there is no need to extend the justice scoreboard to criminal law. criminal law is not yet sufficiently harmonised across europe for a statistical comparison to be appropriate. a faster trial does not necessarily equate to a more efficient judicial system. the european union's competence in criminal matters is also limited: the principle of subsidiarity must be respected.
in writing. i have already commented on the creation of this scoreboard, which will provide a reliable tool for comparisons of the different justice systems in the states. i particularly regretted that it was based on the european semester and its vision of legal systems that 'contribute to economic growth and stimulate competitiveness'. so i refrained. the report clearly calls for this picture to be dissociated from the european economic semester so that justice is "accessible to all regardless of economic interests". it calls for criminal law to be included in the eu justice scoreboard. unfortunately, it also asks the commission, in very vague terms, to set up and operate monitoring and sanctioning mechanisms, whereas this role is for the parliament, the european council and the council. i denounce this encroachment of the commission's powers on those of parliament and i vote against it.
in writing. the european union justice scoreboard, published in march 2013, is a comparative tool to provide reliable data on the judicial systems of the member states. the report approves the creation of the scoreboard but regrets that criminal law has been obscured (only civil and administrative law are concerned) and thus calls for a gradual widening of the scope of the study. a mechanism to assess the respect by the 28 of the union's fundamental values is also called for. the idea is to have a basis for an early warning system which would allow for systematic sanctions for this type of failure. i supported this report, whose proposals could lead to an overall improvement in the quality, independence and efficiency of the judicial systems of the member states.
in writing. the gradual arrival of the internet in the media world has transformed the way this area of activity works and raised many questions, for example about the quality and neutrality of the information provided to citizens. this own-initiative report examines the current situation and future challenges in this increasingly convergent audiovisual world. i voted for this report.
in writing. while the number of information channels has increased through digital means, it is nevertheless necessary to recall the fundamentals of press freedom and to prevent a possible desire for political "hands-on" or for large industrial groups. finally, in an increasingly open world, it seems necessary for the european union to have an ambitious audiovisual policy in the face of the temptation to dominate by certain large groups abroad.
in writing. the aim of this text is to support cultural and information pluralism and to protect intellectual property. europe must adapt to the shift in the merger of traditional broadcasting services with the internet. in order to avoid any dominant position on the market, the own-initiative report proposes in particular that the competition rules be applied to this specific sector. that would be a step in the right direction. voting in favour of this text is not only a vote in favour of supporting european competitiveness in the new information and communication technologies (nict) sector, but also a vote in favour of giving citizens access to a quality offer of audiovisual and internet services.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which suggests updating the regulatory framework for the media, which is necessary to respond to the changing context of digitalisation and the internet. these issues will have to take into account consumer protection and the dual character of the media as cultural and economic assets.
in writing. this report provides a framework for the interaction between audiovisual media, electronic services and applications. it noted that the diversity of audiovisual offerings must be safeguarded in the interests of economic interests and, in this respect, 'remarked to the commission that authorising the inclusion of the cultural and audiovisual media sector in international free trade agreements is contrary to the european union's commitment to promoting cultural diversity and identity'. the report also attaches great importance to net neutrality, support for public works of quality and protection of personal data, but it also encourages deregulation of advertising and competition with the public sector. finally, it does not take into account the targeted territory and the location of the company, which is tantamount to encouraging fiscal dumping. i am voting in favour of this in order to encourage the anti-trade elements of the document, particularly on the transatlantic trade agreement (ttip).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which recalls that the technological convergence of the media is now a reality, in particular for broadcasting, the press and the internet. european media, culture and network policy must therefore adapt the regulatory framework to new realities, while ensuring that a uniform level of regulation can be established and applied also to new market players from the european union and third countries.
in writing. the creation of european citizenship was one of the major achievements of the maastricht treaty of 1992. however, even today, citizens of the member states of the european union do not always feel that they are european citizens in addition to their national citizenship. that is why i welcome the 25 new measures proposed by the commission and supported this own-initiative report on european citizenship.
in writing. citizens' access to information about the union is a crucial issue. this text rightly encourages facilitating access to, inter alia, the solvit network and the 'europe is yours' portal, two useful tools for involving europeans more closely in the union's decision-making process. it also stresses the need to raise citizens' awareness by giving political education a more central role in european affairs in school curricula. finally, in the interests of transparency, it is proposed to facilitate access to documents of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2013 report on european union citizenship because european citizens need to be able to exercise their rights more effectively in a concrete way. the proposals in this report aim to remove the barriers which still prevent people from going to live, work or shop anywhere in the european union. several measures are being taken to this end, including easier access to economic, administrative, legal and cultural matters for residents and also for nationals moving to another member state, rapid information on citizens' rights via the europe direct network and the 'europe is yours' website, the development of a common disability card for disabled people recognised throughout the european territory, the improvement of european legislation on the settlement of cross-border disputes, the recognition of voluntary work, citizens' initiatives and the right to petition the european parliament as elements of citizens' action, the protection of citizens against any form of discrimination based on nationality, precise information on the right to vote in european municipal elections and when one does not reside in one's country of origin...
in writing. the european parliament adopted a report on citizenship of the european union in 2013. i voted in favour of this text, which proposes 12 new measures to strengthen the application of the rights of european citizens. for example, we have asked for a one-stop shop in each member state to better coordinate projects with crossborder impact. we have also called for the creation of a european association status. finally, we recalled the importance of political education in european affairs in school curricula in order to promote european citizenship among the youngest.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which calls for the establishment in each member state of a single point of contact to coordinate projects with crossborder impact. in order to make the concept of european citizenship more tangible, member states should include political education on european affairs in school curricula. the establishment of a european association status would also be beneficial.
in writing. this report on citizenship of the union recalls the 'basic' rights of european citizens: the right to vote in local and european elections, the assistance of a european embassy in third countries, the importance of volunteering, etc., but it does not denounce the austerity that is undermining the rights of citizens, especially in the countries of southern europe. it does not claim any decisive rights for parliament, which represents the people. he also claimed that the election of the commission president by parliament would allow the europeanisation of the election campaign and thus an increase in turnout. i fear that his hopes will be dashed on this point. i don't want to encourage them, so i'm not going to.
in writing. this interim report concerns the issue of the establishment of a european prosecutor. i am in favour of the establishment of a european public prosecutor and have therefore voted in favour of this report. the details of the implementation must now be determined.
in writing. although some national prosecutor's offices and parliaments seem to oppose this, it is necessary to recall that better judicial cooperation, especially in relation to transnational crimes, requires the creation of a european prosecutor's office in order to better protect european citizens.
in writing. this text constitutes an interim report on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office as provided for in article[nbsp ]86 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. by voting for this text, i wanted to show my support for the creation of such an institution. although the debate is not over, it was important to send a strong signal to that effect. the european prosecutor would be tasked with strengthening the protection of the financial interests of the european union and filling the gaps in the current law enforcement systems. it is estimated that the european union loses almost 500 million euros every year because of budgetary irregularities. this considerable shortfall justifies the establishment of such a body. it is true, however, that it is essential not to undermine the principle of subsidiarity within the european union and to define clearly the powers of each of the judicial bodies in europe. that is why discussions must continue on the structure that this european public prosecutor's office should adopt.
in writing. fraud against the european budget is estimated at €500 million each year. in this situation, the creation of a european public prosecutor's office would certainly be an added value in order to investigate these facts more effectively. in this resolution we ask that the respective roles of the future prosecutor's office and other european agencies such as olaf and eurojust be better defined. we also stress the need for binding criteria for deciding which courts have jurisdiction in the cases under consideration. the european public prosecutor's office should be able to use the information provided by the eppo to investigate cases of serious misconduct or fraud. finally, i have spoken in favour of the creation of a european public prosecutor's office which respects a high level of protection of the rights of the defence and applies european standards of procedural rights.
in writing. on wednesday 12[nbsp ]march, the european parliament voted in favour of the creation of a european public prosecutor's office to investigate, prosecute and bring to justice those responsible for offences affecting the union's financial interests. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the creation of a european public prosecutor's office would improve the efficiency of european police services and better coordinate the investigations of the member states. however, there are still differences of opinion on the structure of this new institution, which will be defined by the next european parliament.
in writing. we need a european public prosecutor's office to better defend the financial interests of the european union. all too often, fraud is suspected but no legal action is taken. it is important to send a strong signal today in favour of the establishment of a european prosecutor when the yellow card procedure has been activated, so that a rigorous monitoring and defence of the european budget is put in place.
in writing. the commission is playing a real power play here, with the support of the italian rapporteur from berlusconi's party! no less than 14 national parliaments have expressed their criticisms and concerns about the commission's proposal to create a european public prosecutor's office. the commission neglected to reply and did not provide further details on their requests. and it will require further clarification, given that the concerns, shared by the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, concern the existing problems of functioning of the european anti-fraud office, which the commission nevertheless wishes to place at the centre of the coordination of state controls. even the legal services of the parliament have expressed reservations about the structure and powers of the proposed prosecutor's office. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. in accordance with the treaty of lisbon (article 86), which now offers a historic opportunity to take a decisive step in european integration, this european public prosecutor's office will be responsible for combating attacks on the union's financial interests, a subject of particular importance in this period of economic crisis and budgetary constraints. in addition to the operational benefits of this ambitious project, it will also significantly strengthen the european judicial area by institutionalising a body for the conduct of public policy at european level.
in writing. turkey is a very important economic, political, cultural and military partner of the european union. however, given that the construction of europe is open only to european states and that turkey is not a european country (the vast majority of its territory being located in asia), it seems essential to me to reiterate that this country is not called upon to join the european union but to be a privileged partner. moreover, the recent events in turkey raise new and inevitable questions about the political direction chosen by the authorities in power. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. noting that turkey has moved on some of its legislation, there are still important elements on which the european parliament had to challenge the turkish authorities. relations with cyprus, respect for human rights and concerns about the 'islamisation' of public policies in a constitutionally secular country are all obstacles to the country's accession to the european union.
in writing. i voted for this report, which is certainly the most critical report on turkey since the start of the negotiations, but rightly so. the recent allegations of corruption and fraud, the lack of separation of powers and the serious events of 2013 are unacceptable for a country that wants to join the european union.
in writing. i voted against this evaluation report on turkey, which called in particular for the opening of several chapters of negotiations with a view to its accession to the european union. turkey has no intention of joining the european union. i am therefore opposed to any process of continuing negotiations in this direction. it is necessary to be frank and to take a clear position on turkey. let us stop making this country believe that membership is possible and let us think of other ways of strengthening our partnership.
in writing. what has been observed in turkey for almost a year? corruption scandals at the highest levels of government, restrictions on religious freedoms, purges of the judicial system, violent suppression of protests... all the psychics are in the red. the commission is still ignoring the facts and is proposing to open new chapters in spite of the reluctance of the european citizens. what conception do we have of european values and our european model if we are unable to harden our tone with our turkish partner when he has embarked on a perilous path? the political and judicial situation continued to deteriorate. respect for the rule of law and minorities in turkey is not guaranteed. what is our idea of the european union if we give our approval to these practices? that is why, despite the criticisms made by the rapporteur in his follow-up report, i could not, in the light of reality, support the proposal to deepen the accession negotiations and therefore rejected the text.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution on turkey which calls for the opening of several chapters of negotiations with the european union, in particular on justice, social and regional policy. while turkey has not yet made all the efforts expected of it in the area of justice and human rights, in particular, proposing to open new chapters would be a bad signal and would not encourage turkey to make progress in these areas. i therefore regret that this resolution was adopted.
in writing. while the latest political and judicial developments are worrying for democracy in turkey, i voted against a resolution which proposed opening new chapters in the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union. respect for the union's values and fundamental rights is an essential condition for membership of the union.
in writing. i voted against the 2013 follow-up report on turkey as it calls for the opening of new chapters in the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union. the union must develop a privileged partnership with turkey, but it is not appropriate for it to deepen accession negotiations at a time when it must strengthen its internal functioning and address the challenges of unemployment and competitiveness.
in writing. this 2013 resolution on turkey is far below the one tabled by my group. taksim square protesters and the police are being treated as equals. the report "deplores the deaths of protesters and police officers". while he welcomes the government's reforms in terms of 'democratization', he does not mention the fate of political opponents who, like pinar selek, have had to find refuge in france. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to prevent it from spreading. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which recalls that 2013 saw a revitalization of relations between the european union and turkey, symbolised by the opening of chapter 22 (regional policy) of the accession negotiations and the signing of an eu-turkey readmission agreement on 16 december 2013. the resolution adopted was toughened compared to its original version to take account of the latest internal political developments in turkey, including the government's reaction to corruption investigations. the overall balance is therefore considerably more critical than that of the resolution adopted last year.
in writing. this text called for progress in the accession negotiations. the real culprit in this case is françois hollande! he is not a little proud of having relaunched the negotiations with this candidate country. he's a political pyromaniac! he knows very well that by doing so he is fuelling extremism and populism. we are the only ones in the ump who have been clear from the beginning: we do not want turkey to join the european union! so are millions of europeans, and the french are leading the way. so let's stop lying to this people once and for all, and we'll get out of this with dignity. let us stop the negotiations: turkey has no place in the union! politics must be back in brussels! our fellow citizens are demanding it! we must re-invent our relations with turkey as soon as possible so that we can finally define the frontiers of europe.
in writing. turkey is an ally with which europe must speak clearly. rather than calling for the opening of new chapters, we should strengthen our partnership in such major areas as defence in the framework of nato and trade. recent developments in the areas of fundamental freedoms, the independence of the judiciary and freedom of expression are a cause for concern. the removal of prosecutors and police officers in charge of high-level corruption investigations is contrary to the principle of judicial independence. similarly, the blocking of twitter by the turkish prime minister is a step backwards in the individual freedoms of turks and must not be left without consequences. while the crisis of confidence between the union and its citizens has never been greater, we note that turkey's eu accession is not on the agenda. instead of continuing this race to enlargement, european leaders must start the work of rebuilding. we need to go deeper before we enlarge, i.e. rethink how the union works for a more efficient and democratic europe. and why not think about a circle organization for the future.
in writing. i voted against the 2013 resolution on monitoring the progress of turkey's accession to the european union. only a few months after the events in taksim square and a few days after the death of the young berkin elvan, 15, after a long coma, from injuries inflicted by the police, this resolution succeeds in being even less critical than its 2012 edition. protesters and police are put on an equal footing. the report obviously welcomes the signing of the eu-turkey readmission agreement and insists on labelling the pkk as a terrorist organisation in the current volatile and complex negotiating climate... even criticism of press freedom or of the power struggle between the various conservative factions is very timid. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. this resolution is even complacent with the so-called reforms put in place by the government ("welcomes the set of democratization measures presented by the government") when it is known that they have not seen the slightest start of implementation.
in writing. as denmark, finland and sweden are countries in the arctic region and finland and sweden are partly located within the arctic circle, the european union has an interest in developing such a strategy. i voted in favour of this text because it is important that we europeans move quickly in this part of the world, where the russians, canadians and americans are already particularly involved.
in writing. the european parliament, through this resolution, encourages a united policy on the part of the european union for the management of the arctic territory. the challenges posed by melting ice for the exploitation of the territory are to be considered from a socio-economic but also environmental point of view. it seems to me therefore particularly essential that the european union should adopt an effective strategy for the protection of the environment in this fragile area. in addition, the development of fisheries, tourism and transport policies must be pursued in close cooperation with the people who live there.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the european union's arctic strategy. the resolution recalls the union's commitment to the arctic region and proposes a concrete action plan, including on socioeconomic, scientific, energy and environmental issues. the resolution also calls for the development of more effective synergies between existing programmes. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the arctic, which calls in particular on the european commission to ensure that satellite monitoring projects address the impact on the arctic. the commission should implement a coherent socio-economic strategy on the union's engagement in the arctic, in order to ensure that the interests of the union are taken into account.
in writing. this report sets out the union's strategy for the arctic. this is mainly to ensure gas supplies from this region, of which the union is the main consumer. to this end, particular attention is paid to transport routes, where 'it is necessary to refrain from introducing unilateral, arbitrary obstacles, whether financial or administrative, which could impede maritime traffic'. some environmental protection elements are well mentioned, but this resolution puts the economic interests of the union before the interests of the people. it ignores the serious productivity drift that the exploitation of the arctic represents. it is silent on the risks of military conflict that its injunctions contain. i vote against it.
in writing. the arctic is a major geopolitical issue for the european union. this region bordering europe must be preserved and the products it contains must be exploited in a way which respects its specific characteristics. the geographical position of the union gives it undeniable legitimacy as regards the possibility of exploiting the arctic.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the action of the troika raises at least two types of questions. the first question is the democratic control of proposals to the states. even within the troika, the obvious disagreements between the imf, the ecb and the commission have not been discussed in any democratic body of the union. the european parliament was never consulted. the most important decisions were taken in the eurogroup, an informal body where germany's voice was predominant. the legal basis for the participation of the commission and the ecb in an intergovernmental structure such as the troika is also a matter of debate, if reference is made to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the ecb has, in particular, exceeded its prerogatives by imposing its views on fiscal policy and the restructuring of the irish, cypriot and greek banking sectors. the commission has not always been the guardian of the union acquis, notably in cyprus, by turning a blind eye to the eurogroup's proposal to tax deposits below eur 100 000. secondly, this lack of legitimacy is all the more serious because the policies imposed, with a gun to the head, on national governments and parliaments are the subject of many controversies. four of these can be mentioned. first, the greek debt could have been restructured immediately to avoid the recessionary impact of too brutal fiscal austerity. this was the position of the imf, which had revised upwards its estimates of the budget multiplier and which favoured internal devaluation. this remains the imf's position, which believes that further debt restructuring is necessary, while the greek debt ratio is at 175[nbsp ]% of gdp. in the event of a new restructuring, it could be suggested that the ecb, which bought 34 billion of greek debt on the secondary market, take these losses, unlike what happened during the first restructuring. this would certainly increase money creation, but it would not be harmful at a time when deflation is threatening the euro area. second and second mistake, the ecb only got its bazooka [nbsp ]the unwto program, probably too late, in september[nbsp ]2012. if this programme had been set up earlier, it might have prevented the contagion from portugal and cyprus. thirdly, the combination of severe fiscal austerity and internal devaluation, i.e. lower wages, killed demand and plunged greece and portugal into a lasting recession. fourth, the irish banking rescue package, which amounted to almost 30% of gdp, was almost exclusively borne by the taxpayer and preserved the interests of senior bank bondholders. at that time, solidarity mechanisms such as the efsf or the esm and the future banking union did not exist. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. portugal and ireland have regained access to the market to finance their debts, but the instability that existed when the assistance was requested has been exacerbated in all countries. growth remains sluggish; debt ratios have soared; unemployment, poverty and inequality have exploded. the report makes proposals to improve democratic control of the european stability mechanism, which is to become a genuine european monetary fund replacing the troika. the european stability mechanism must be placed under the aegis of the community method: codecision between the european parliament and the council must prevail for economic policy recommendations made to states in return for financial assistance. my dear colleagues, our fellow citizens blame europe for its lack of transparency and democracy. they doubt the effectiveness of austerity policies that they increasingly dislike. by adopting this report, our parliament, the only european institution elected by direct universal suffrage, can send a strong signal to our fellow citizens on the eve of the next elections. it sets a course for the next president of the commission. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, it seems to me that the budgetary policies in all the member states are now pro-cyclical. before the crisis, these were already pro-cyclical policies. there have been stimulus plans, but it was when those stimulus plans were suspended that growth collapsed in all european countries, and particularly in those countries which asked for assistance. without growth, you have no tax revenues and you have debts that are growing. i don't have time to say more, but i suggest you look carefully at the curves in all the countries of the euro area: deficits are falling everywhere, but debt levels are also soaring everywhere. that is the paradox of procyclical policies, which you seem to be advocating.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives of this report were very relevant: to assess the working methods and the action of the troika in the four countries receiving financial assistance. the efforts of the two co-rapporteurs, othmar karas and liem hoang ngoc, who managed to keep to an ambitious timetable in a difficult context and found a reasonable and balanced compromise, should be commended. this report highlights the positive results of the troika's action. the commission must not be a scapegoat: it did not create the difficult situations that these countries were experiencing. on the contrary, it has prevented their bankruptcy and its disastrous economic and social consequences, even though the peoples are suffering the necessary recovery. the first signs of economic recovery are appearing: the programme in ireland is over, the programme in portugal is expected to be over soon, but efforts must be continued. however, the report rightly calls for improvements. it also called for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is not disrupted by terrorist attacks. we must go further, we must establish a genuine political supervision at european level by an authority directly and clearly responsible. this authority would have to define explicitly the mandate of the troika and this mandate should take into account not only the financial consolidation imperatives, which are indispensable, but also the prospects for economic growth necessary for recovery. this mandate should set both quantitative and qualitative targets. in order to avoid the problem of the legal basis, it would be appropriate to implement the recommendation in recital 7 of the regulation on the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability within the euro area. it is up to the commission, mr president, to propose a mechanism which would enable the management of an acute crisis by establishing a clear legal framework for an organised default and providing for the necessary measures for the recovery of a country which would have recourse to european solidarity. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr lamberts, i think that the situation in the various countries is not comparable, as you said earlier. the housing bubbles in spain or ireland are not comparable to the situation in greece. i think that the troika has done what could have been done without any pre-crisis reflection and that certain measures that have been taken would perhaps have deserved more action. that is why i propose that we now put in place a mechanism, not for it to happen but for it to exist in case of need, and that we define both quantitative and qualitative objectives to safeguard the situation of the most disadvantaged sections of the population in the face of crisis situations.
madam president, commissioners, i would first like to congratulate the three rapporteurs from the two committees involved on their work, which is absolutely remarkable. as regards the operation of the troika, i deeply regret that the community method has been totally ignored in favour of a cold, three-headed technocratic monster devoid of any democratic legitimacy, except for a mandate issued in the utmost secrecy, behind closed doors, by a eurogroup chaired first by jean-claude juncker, for three of the troika's mandates, and then by mr. jeroen_dijsselbloem.' the troika's record is dismal and open conflicts have quickly emerged between its three components, particularly over the importance to be given to the multiplier coefficient associated with the recessive effect of the recommended austerity policies. what credibility is there, then, in the recommendations of such a baroque grouping in terms of macroeconomic expertise? in the space of two years, the troika's projections were substantially revised, the real level of growth was consistently overestimated, while the number of unemployed was systematically underestimated. here again, the international labour organization would probably have been able to sound the alarm about the foreseeable failures of the measures envisaged and could have avoided a collapse of the labour market in the countries under the programme. i invite you to read a study that the bruegel institute has just put on the table which shows that the prospects that were envisaged for portugal in 2013 should lead to unemployment of 13.5%, whereas it was 17.5%. greece, where a rate of 14% was expected, is now at 27%, not to mention the forced mobility and the exodus of brains systematically observed. i would also like to point out that while one of the golden rules that everyone has been calling for at the level of the european union, namely not only to advocate a strategy of smart investment but also to advocate social dialogue, has been systematically flouted in the countries of the troika, and that the european union itself has been condemned for the first time by the ilo for failing to respect, in greece, the collective agreements and therefore the basic conventions of this organisation, which form the basis of the social dialogue and our social model.
madam president, commissioner, i think we have a good symbol today, because the troika is like the musketeers: there are not three of them, there are four. in fact, it is the eurogroup that is supposed to take all the decisions and we see how the eurogroup and council benches are fed. i therefore believe that this debate and this report were particularly useful in putting a little more democracy back into a procedure which i believe has been created ex nihilo, which was necessary and which has allowed us to deal with absolutely dramatic situations - i think we need to have a little memory - but which make it clear that such intrusive policies cannot be implemented without having a place of expression. in fact, some colleagues have shown that democracy also means the right to let off steam. they even forgot, some say, that their party was in power in the countries that created the debt. but that's another question. what we are seeing in the public debate in europe at the moment is the search for scapegoats. instead of looking for the root causes of the crisis, we say it's the fireman who's responsible for the fire. i think that this report presents in a balanced way - and i thank all the rapporteurs who worked on it and all the people who took part in the journey - a number of limitations and a number of successes. i don't think the glass is half full or half empty. it is above all necessary that we try to look together to the future. i am glad that this report has been drawn up and that this parliament has played its role as a watchdog of the executive authorities as much as possible in a - i repeat - imperfect system. for the future, i would say that what we need most are structural policies, policies that change the way our economies work, that accompany citizens, that leave as few people as possible on the side of the road, but that do not hide the difficulties due to the situations created by previous governments.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr schmidt, do you think it is normal that in a country like greece, the troika has accepted that the government does not touch the defence budget, but instead cuts the health budget from 6 billion to 2 billion euros, which means that people no longer have access to care? do you think that's normal? is this not the commission's fault? is it not the fault of the troika, where the commission is seated?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are two and a half months away from the european elections. two and a half months! what is our view of the troika? we have the image of a troika which is an unidentified object, which was imposed by the member states, which has no democratic legitimacy and you are destroying, vis-à-vis european citizens, the values of solidarity of europe because of the austerity policy you imposed on the states [nbsp ] even if, as has been said, there were governments who were responsible for the deficit. i went to greece and i went to see people. i went to the hospitals and found that still more than three million people had no social security. if you go to the hospital, you have to pay 25 euros. if you are pregnant and want to give birth, you have to pay 650 euros. if you want to have an abortion, you have to pay 350 euros. but this is amazing! fortunately, there are ngos like doctors of the world that are setting up social clinics, but, at the moment, there is no access to care. there's an increase in mortality. people with cancer can't even afford to buy their own medicine. i blame the commission. why would you do that? because, commissioner, it is the guarantor of the treaties and in particular of the charter of fundamental rights, and it has not pushed governments to ensure that access to care is guaranteed. that's where you have a heavy responsibility.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that the troika, which has imposed neoliberal policies with the blessing of the right-wing majority in this parliament, has failed by committing a triple error. first, there is a democratic error. the troika is a technocratic monster, acting without parliamentary control. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. then it was an economic mistake. with austerity policies, the crisis has intensified, while we need a recovery plan to prepare for the future, especially focused on the ecological transition. it's a social fault. the clear cuts in social spending have had a catastrophic impact. for example, greece has cut its hospital spending by a quarter, and infant mortality is now skyrocketing. this is a serious violation of the rights of european citizens. we are asking for an inquiry by the european agency for fundamental rights. the slogan must be very clear: the troika, never again!
madam president, in europe, social inequalities are growing: the poor are becoming poorer, the rich - some rich - are becoming richer. how is it that our europe, which we wanted to unify, which we wanted to bring together, is in the end the one that widened the wealth gaps? i thank mr cercas for his report on the social impact of the troika's harmful actions. it is a fact that we must get out of the crisis, but why ask those who already have little, no more jobs, no more decent incomes, who are excluded from society, who have finished their education, to make an economic effort? and they're being asked to tighten their belts even more. meanwhile, some people are making money and tax evasion continues to be rampant, preventing the resources needed for public policies from going into the coffers. we want a europe which serves the people, not finance, which is not accountable. a strong europe cannot exist without its citizens. the troika's operation in the dark is weakening democracy and the european institutions. the social impact of this programme should not be seen as a secondary issue. despite the urgency and unlike current programmes, we must act both in the long term and in the short term. is it necessary to wait for societies to implode before taking account of the social issues inherent in the current economic policies, those of austerity and liberalism? no, we don't think he did.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all the members who took part in this debate, which was fruitful in that it brought together different points of view. depending on where you sit in the house, you will necessarily have different views. that's the nature of democracy. we have found these different views within the troika itself, where divergences have emerged between the international monetary fund, the commission and the european central bank, divergences which we have highlighted in the report. like, there were other policies that were possible. there were some alternatives. given these possibilities, where has the debate been settled? the eurogroup is totally opaque, as my colleague mrs goulard has just pointed out. it is this opacity that is repelling our fellow citizens today. when mr dijsselbloem tells us, when he is welcomed into the european parliament, that the discussions within the eurogroup on the troika do not concern parliament, it shocks us democrats. for us, democracy in europe means the community method and the community method is not just the involvement of the european parliament, it is also the respect of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is also respect for the charter of fundamental social rights. it is also, commissioner, recognition of the role of the social partners. in this respect, the role of the social partners was trampled on in portugal when the troika refused to apply a minimum wage of eur 500 on the grounds that it would undermine portuguese competitiveness. i have no doubt that the future commission, the one which will emerge from the next european elections, will be able to grasp the road map we have set out in our report. on that note, allow me to make a digression here. i have heard that mr juncker is a candidate for the presidency of the commission. mr juncker, when he was president of the eurogroup, was considered the real president of the troika. in this respect, i think he is a very bad candidate for the next european commission. i think other candidates in the progressive camp will be able to take our road map.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr[nbsp ] president, it is a pleasure to have the opportunity to discuss with the european parliament the eu priorities for the human rights council. the human rights council is the united nations’ premier human rights body. it has the potential genuinely and meaningfully to improve human rights situations around the world. in line with the eu strategic and action plan on human rights and democracy, we are active at the council in exposing and condemning human rights abuses wherever they may occur, and we seek to develop the means to stop or, even better, to prevent violations. i will touch firstly on some of the eu priorities in the current main session of the human rights council. secondly, i wish to assure you, the european parliament, and anyone watching this debate, of the european union’s strong and determined commitment to universal human rights and to the un human rights bodies, which we support and which we push to perform well. it has been three years since the start of the arab spring. a wave of freedom swept across the entire region, with such hope and promise. for some countries, this promise has been met. tragically, others have experienced crackdowns, civil war and gross human rights violations. in syria, a horror that would be unimaginable were it not playing out right before our eyes continues every day. the european union will continue to use all levers at its disposal to bring relief to the syrian people, to see the perpetrators of crimes against humanity brought to justice, and to press for humanitarian access. the human rights council will again scrutinise the situation and build on the important work of the commission of inquiry, which we will continue to support. the human rights council will also hear the report of the commission of inquiry into the democratic people’s republic of korea. along with many in the chamber today, i am sure, we found the commission’s report a tragic, but not surprising, document. crimes against humanity are being committed on our watch. the european union will press for an appropriate follow-up to the work of the commission, including on accountability, and will continue to urge the democratic people’s republic of korea to start engaging with the un on human rights. the other ongoing eu country initiative is on myanmar/burma, where much progress has been made. remaining concerns include the situation in rakhine state, inter-communal violence and the situation in ethnic areas. we believe that myanmar has much to gain from the establishment there of an office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights (ohchr) country office, and we continue to call for that to be put in place swiftly. we support, too, the extension of the mandate of the special rapporteur on human rights in iran, not least given the recent spate of executions, and we call on iran to cooperate more closely with the un. we also support efforts to enhance accountability and reconciliation in sri lanka. the european union will remain a staunch supporter of a democratic transition in egypt and will continue to stand with those defending human rights. the egyptian government must live up to its duty to respect and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are also enshrined in the new constitution, and must ensure the smooth opening of the ohchr country office. recent events in the central african republic and south sudan remind us how quickly violence can start and how suddenly human rights can come under threat. the special session on the central african republic and recent attention dedicated to south sudan also demonstrate that the council can act speedily when necessary. it is now up to all of us to ensure that the relevant reports and mechanisms are used effectively. obviously, the human rights council must tackle the most acute situations, and therefore the eu representatives – and many other high-level speakers last week in geneva – addressed the situation in ukraine, which continues to evolve rapidly. the european union reiterated its deep regret about the many deaths, injuries and human rights violations that have occurred over the past weeks. the crisis in ukraine must be resolved peacefully according to international law and with full respect for ukraine’s territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence. all citizens must be protected against intimidation and human rights violations, including persons belonging to minorities. we welcome ukraine’s resolve to investigate human rights violations, and we understand that the investigation will be carried out in line with international standards and in cooperation with the council of europe. the impact of events in crimea on the human rights situation there is of particular concern. beatings, arrests and kidnappings of journalists and civil activists must stop immediately and should be properly investigated. the human rights council, in addition to tackling country-specific issues, looks at many thematic issues, as well as human rights in the broader context, including issues of great importance for the eu and this house such as lgtbi persons’ rights, freedom of religion, belief and gender equality. all around the world, the space for civil society is being shrunk, making it easier for human rights violations to occur. in order to address them, the council itself must be a safe space for debate. reprisals against those who cooperate with the united nations system, or crude procedural moves to prevent civil-society representatives from participating, are unacceptable and betray the founding intent of the council. in closing, let me stress again that the council is a vital body for the promotion and protection of universal human rights: it deserves our full support and cooperation. in this context, we acknowledge the return of israel to the human rights council at this session and encourage it to cooperate fully with the council and its mechanisms. long-term peace and security can be sustained only if human rights and international humanitarian law are fully respected by all. finally, let me invite you to join our efforts in the pursuit of human rights around the globe, for our priorities are yours, and vice versa, as the motion for a resolution before you today so clearly shows.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, as every year, parliament votes a resolution on the mandate of its delegation to the human rights council. as every year, he does so after the work has begun and without really taking into account the agenda of the conference. the resolution does not say anything, for example, about the independence of palestine, although this issue will be the focus of the conference. nor is there any mention of economic, social and cultural rights, another important issue in the work, particularly in the high commissioner's report. nothing on the effective enjoyment of these rights, including cultural rights, on housing as part of the right to an adequate standard of living, on the effects of external debt on human rights, on the return of frozen assets, on illicit debt or on the role of the public service as an essential element of good governance in the field of human rights. these are all subjects on the agenda of the twenty-fifth session of the human rights council. we have essentially a repetitive catalogue by country of the usual positions of the european parliament, without any real interest for the council - it knows them - or for our delegation to the committee on human rights, or above all for the political visibility of the parliament abroad. a kind of missed appointment, a method to be reviewed for the next legislature.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i too am very moved to take up this debate today. for more than two years we have been working in parliament in a way that is both aggressive and aggressive in the creation of an asylum, migration and integration fund. i would like to add my thanks to the fictitious rapporteurs who accompanied us and to the staff of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, who have also accompanied us throughout this work. the negotiations on the asylum, migration and integration fund have concluded that with this new financial instrument the european union and its member states are well equipped to respond in a way that is both supportive and responsible to the increasingly transnational challenges that europe will continue to face over the next seven years. in the preparation of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, in the area of internal affairs policies, it was essential to carry out intensive work on simplifying the old spending instruments and working towards greater flexibility, in particular to respond to urgent issues. experience has shown that, because of their diversity and fragmentation, the rules governing spending programmes have often been perceived as unnecessarily complex and difficult to implement and control. the creation of european funds for asylum and integration of migrants is a good idea, but we must have access to them! for example, many ngos have argued that delays in payment procedures have put them in difficulty, often forcing them to take out loans from banks or, worse, to close their doors. i therefore very much welcomed the new dynamic of simplification and rationalisation suggested by the commission in its november 2011 proposal. the asylum, migration and integration fund thus builds on the three financial instruments of the previous period: the european refugee fund, the european integration fund and the european return fund. among its strategic objectives, the new fund will help to[nbsp]strengthen the european asylum system, promote legal migration within the union, promote fair return strategies and deepen solidarity and responsibility-sharing between member states. in the context of these objectives, the fund now also has an external dimension, making it possible to finance actions in or concerning third countries. on the other hand, while it is positive, this quest for simplification and adaptability also raised questions. since they are now grouped together in a single instrument, how can it be ensured that member states do not give more priority to return activities than to those related to asylum or integration? how can all stakeholders, including local and regional authorities and civil society, be effectively involved in the programming, implementation and evaluation of the various activities carried out? how can a rigorous evaluation mechanism be put in place to ensure that eu funding is used appropriately and transparently, even if member states have not set appropriate objectives or indicators for their annual programme? finally, a number of questions: when it is now possible to finance actions outside the union, how can we ensure that these actions are consistent with other european policies, particularly development policies, and how can we avoid the temptation for states to adopt a carrot and stick policy which would in some way make development aid dependent on the efforts of foreign countries in the field of return and border controls? in response to the concerns raised, we have succeeded in parliament, after intense negotiation, in achieving a fair and transparent distribution of funding between the different objectives of the fund, providing for a minimum percentage of resources to be allocated to asylum and integration policies respectively. for example, of the €2.4 billion that member states will share to finance their annual programme, at least 20% should be allocated to fostering legal migration and promoting the effective integration of migrants and at least an additional 20% should be allocated to funding asylum-related measures. ngos and international organisations involved in the partnerships will be involved in the development and implementation of the fund[nbsp] and the monitoring at national level. we have succeeded in strengthening a results-oriented approach, which will not only have an accounting view of the actions carried out, but will also favour a qualitative evaluation of their achievements. i have some regrets, of course, because we have not succeeded in strengthening solidarity in the area of asylum, whether it is with third countries or between member states, and so, for example, we have not succeeded in implementing the instruments available, as contained in the treaties, for example, article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in order to guarantee more solidarity measures in the future. it is a regret that we have not found a solution in our discussions.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, tomorrow's vote on the new generation of financial instruments will allow us to complete the reform of the financing of internal affairs policy at european level for the period 2014-2020. the number of programmes will be reduced and their new structure will consist of two funds. the first will deal with asylum, immigration and integration and the second with internal security and will have two components: borders and visas on the one hand and police cooperation on the other. in addition to these thematic tools, a horizontal regulation will now introduce common rules for the programming, reporting, financial management, controls and evaluation of all three specific regulations. the two funds will allocate a total of eur 6.9 billion for the period from 2014 to 2020. ladies and gentlemen, honourable members, the international and regional challenges facing the european union in the field of justice and home affairs will continue to increase. it is therefore a top priority for the union to have the most effective, flexible and inclusive financial instruments at its disposal. the texts of the four regulations to be voted on tomorrow are the result of more than two and a half years of intensive work and negotiations. i take this opportunity, as the representative of the greek presidency, to thank parliament and in particular the four rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs who have contributed to this process. i would also like to express my gratitude to the previous presidencies of the council of ministers. i would like to thank and congratulate the commission and commissioner malmström in particular, without whose dedication and skillful handling we would not have achieved this positive result. negotiations have not always been easy. the council nevertheless considers that the overall result fully achieves the objectives of reforming the financial instruments available to justice and home affairs policies. in particular, expenditure is better aligned with the overall policy objectives. the financing process shall be improved and simplified and the financing mechanisms shall be as synchronised as possible within the two separate funds, both governed by the horizontal regulation. the new funds will help the union and the member states to fulfil their strategic objectives in the field of justice and home affairs and to provide european added value. simplification of operational procedures will reduce costs and remove administrative and financial burdens from beneficiaries. the improvement of the system will also allow for a more flexible and rapid response to emergency situations and will also strengthen the union's role vis-à-vis third countries. the provisions on cooperation and transparency have also been strengthened to strengthen the participation and role of non-governmental organisations and the public sector throughout the process. cooperation with the private sector is also encouraged. a mid-term evaluation mechanism included in some of the tools will allow for a review after a few years so that funds can continue to be channelled to address the most pressing issues and challenges as they arise. the european parliament has a specific political and budgetary role in the implementation of these instruments, which will allow it to monitor developments and express its views accordingly. president. - ladies and gentlemen, the council will continue to work closely with the european parliament and the commission to strengthen the area of justice and home affairs. the council looks forward to the effective and timely implementation of these new instruments, which will certainly contribute to the overall development of the area of freedom, security and justice of the european union.
member of the commission. - mr[nbsp ] president, minister, i am very pleased that today, after more than two years of difficult negotiations, we have an agreement on the new home affairs funds. its adoption comes some months into the year, but the commission has been working hard to minimise the impact of the delay. i would like to thank particularly the four rapporteurs for their work, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and the greek presidency, but also the former presidency, because this has been a long journey. we have had good cooperation and a constructive approach, and the end result is a pragmatic and realistic compromise on a number of very difficult issues. i think we can all be satisfied with the good result we have collectively achieved. i strongly believe that these new financial instruments will allow us to focus more on achieving policy results and delivering added value at eu level. moreover, despite the financial crisis and the cuts imposed, the overall resources for the home affairs funds have been increased, and that reflects the growing importance of this field to the eu. the objective of simplification has been attained. the number of funds, as you have said, has been reduced: to the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund, with a set of common rules. shared management will continue to be the main delivery mechanism in the field of migration and borders, and it has also been introduced in the areas of internal security and police cooperation and crime prevention. the administrative burden would be reduced substantially by moving away from cumbersome annual planning towards a multiannual programme, and this is something that has been very strongly urged. other improvements i would like to mention include the fact that funding for the external dimension will bring leverage to our internal policy, as it will support specifically-targeted actions in third countries in the interests of eu migration policy or our internal security objectives. this will, of course, be done in coordination with the other eu external funds. i am also happy that, thanks to your support, the partnership principle for national programmes has been strengthened. the involvement of all relevant actors at national, local and regional levels and the participation of international organisations will contribute to improving the quality and transparency of the planning process. the key elements of the commission’s proposal to set up an outcome-oriented and policy-driven, yet flexible and less-cumbersome, financial instrument will now become a reality under the new multiannual financial framework. but more flexibility does not mean less control over the use of funding. on the contrary, we have tailor-made national programmes designed for the specific needs and situations of member states, and this approach will deliver greater benefits thanks to the stronger focus on results. there is an enhanced monitoring and evaluation mechanism, with the use of indicators to measure progress, allowing us to steer the funding better and to deliver on the priorities. the bulk of the resources under the new home affairs funds will be channelled through multiannual programmes covering the whole seven-year period. the senior-level policy dialogues between the commission and each member state have now been concluded, and they have been very important in preparing the timely implementation of the new funds, given that the negotiations about them were still ongoing. i would like to reaffirm that the commission is committed to regular dialogue with parliament to keep you informed about the outcome of the policy dialogues and the content of the national programmes. i can also confirm our readiness to report on the overall outcome, and that can be done as early as next week at the meeting of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. last week in council i informed the justice and home affairs ministers about the preparatory steps ahead to make the new home affairs funds operational. i called on them to finalise and submit their national programmes as soon as possible, because if we do not have the programmes approved the money cannot flow. i would therefore encourage parliament, in the vote tomorrow, to give its agreement to the whole package. the subsequent preparatory steps, with a view to putting the new funds into action, are in our joint interest and can be undertaken only after the four regulations enter into force.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, police cooperation between member states and with third countries, as well as the surveillance of our frontiers, have become essential at a time when the phenomena of migration and criminal asylum are increasingly of concern to the european population. as rapporteur for the committee on budgets, i regret, however, the reduction in the amount allocated to the internal security fund, which now stands at eur 3.318 billion instead of the eur 4.648 billion proposed by the commission. this reduction, decided by the council during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, does not take into account the added value that europe can bring in solving problems such as human trafficking, drug trafficking or corruption. on the police cooperation side, i welcome the fact that 1.004 billion has been preserved (out of the 1.128 billion originally planned). as part of the resources will now be under shared management, the corresponding national programmes will need to be perfectly aligned with the eu's priority levels and objectives. in addition, and in conclusion, the visibility of the union's financial contribution must be ensured because citizens must not be unaware of what we are doing to protect their safety.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i will not share the general satisfaction i have heard so far, but i would like to thank sylvie[nbsp]guillaume in particular for her tenacity. we have a fundamental disagreement on the political orientations of these funds. the provisions in favour of respect for fundamental rights, privacy, the protection of vulnerable persons or the involvement of ngos at certain stages of the discussions seem very weak in the face of the repressive and even regressive content of these three funds. they are innovative in allowing the financing of eu action in third countries, thus strengthening the outsourcing of eu migration policy. we put the pressure of migration and asylum seekers on the same level, and we make the link, the amalgamation - i've heard enough of it so far - between immigration, security and anti-trafficking. migrants as scapegoats, we're getting used to it. the budget cuts are being made at the expense of integration, asylum, resettlement and therefore solidarity, in order to give priority to the financing of national programmes at the expense of community actions, by reducing the european parliament's right of control over these actions. this is done in favour of return measures, in favour of the so-called 'smart borders'. the council has got what it wanted: a stronger fortress europe, but without us!
the rapporteur, mr president, has repeatedly mentioned the question of solidarity in this debate and i would like to reiterate my regret that i did not see the inclusion of article 80 as an additional legal basis in this text. i think that would have been justified. i also regret that the budget cuts were not confined to the european side. i think that, in terms of solidarity, it would have made sense to have a better distribution. we now have a complete and operational toolkit to transform the experiment and to conduct a comprehensive and innovative policy on migration issues, so as to also decide on policies that have often been fragmented in this area. everything will now depend on several things: how the member states will implement this fund and how the commission will control the financing of activities which actually meet the union's strategic objectives. parliament will be vigilant, you can be sure of that. we shall ask for full information on the follow-up of the application of this fund. we will pay particular attention to several issues: the allocation of expenditure - i mentioned this earlier - the added value generated by the implementation of these activities, the improvement of access to finance for the beneficiaries and, i add at this point, the elimination of all unnecessary bureaucracy. i believe that we must appreciate and approach migration issues with pragmatism and have the political courage to implement a truly integrated european approach, addressing both the symptoms and the root causes of the phenomenon and not neglecting integration in the host societies either. thank you for the teamwork.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent report, which has been produced by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. as you know, the bar is a noble species of great economic value. it is highly sought after by professional fishermen and also by recreational fishermen, whose numbers are growing in europe. in the atlantic and the english channel, cod fishing is a significant activity. it is a major contributor to local economies. the techniques used by the professionals are many, but the three main ones are pelagic trawl, longline or trawl; recreational fishermen engaged in surface trawling or live bait fishing. the bar reaches sexual maturity, depending on the area, during its fourth or fifth year of life, for a size that can range from 35 to 40 centimeters. after spawning, the actual reproduction occurs after a long spawning period, which leads to the fish gathering for several weeks in tightly packed schools, which can be very large numbers of individuals. so fish are particularly vulnerable during these gatherings. the conservation of this species is now the responsibility of the member states, not the european union. france, for example, is currently implementing interesting measures in collaboration with the professionals, thanks to the work of the "bar" committee of the national committee for marine fisheries and marine farming: a biological rest of seven days during the spawning period to limit the pressure on breeding adults, a minimum mesh size of 100[nbsp ]mm for trawls and nets, and landings of pelagic trawlers limited to five tonnes per week per vessel. i welcome these voluntary measures, of course, but they are still not enough. recreational fishermen in france have responsibly decided to increase the catch size in order to contribute to the conservation of the resource. this shows that they are aware of the need to protect this species. today i am saying that the european union must take up this issue in order to organise harmonization at its level. the 2012 ices opinion indicates that the lack of reliable stock data is problematic at european level. it recommends, as a precautionary measure, a reduction of 20% of the total catches of bluefin tuna at european level, referring to the average catches between 2008 and 2010. the february 2011 ifremer opinion indicates that the lack of data is very problematic. it is therefore important that at european level the commission proposes to the member states that they intensify the monitoring of commercial and recreational fishing activities and suggests that they organise access to the resource between professional and recreational fishermen to enable sustainable exploitation. this protection must not, however, lead to a ban on the exploitation of this species but to its organisation. the aim is to adopt management measures that will enable fishermen to fish within the limits of the quotas set up by the european union. those quotas shall be established on the basis of the best available scientific advice. they will be accompanied by a multiannual management plan which will provide fishermen with a medium- and long-term view of their catch possibilities. this will also provide a global view of the market and marketing of this species, which is in high demand among consumers. at the same time, states will have to be asked to regulate recreational fishing in terms of the number of catches per fisherman per year. this will avoid the excesses seen here and there. at european level, this debate must enable the three institutions to achieve the establishment of fair and equitable quotas for commercial fishing. i therefore ask the commission to intensify research on the state of european bar stocks in order to know their biology and to provide us with a study by the end of october 2014. i also propose that the commission should set up tacs and quotas for this species. this tac implies management by multiannual plans. i also request that the minimum capture size be increased to a minimum of 40 centimetres. the european commission, commissioner, must take its responsibilities and propose concrete measures to preserve the bar. these measures will allow the commercial fishermen to continue exploiting this high value added species and the recreational fishermen to continue their activity without endangering the resource. finally, commissioner, i would like to ask you whether the commission is prepared to propose to the european parliament and the council, before the end of its mandate, a multiannual management plan for cod in the atlantic and the channel and an increase in the size of the catch.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has just made a historic breakthrough in fisheries management by adopting a tool: maximum sustainable yield. this objective must now be accompanied by management measures and new requirements for our partners. the first is the question of recreational fishing. for example, between 2009 and 2010 in france, commercial fisheries landed about 5 000 tonnes of cod and recreational fishermen 2 300 tonnes. while stecf is currently assessing the most appropriate management methods for the cod, does the commission intend to follow up and present a legislative proposal including recreational fishing? it is essential that ices take account of the volumes caught by recreational boating in these stock assessments. one question is: should the mdr be based on professional fishermen only? secondly, the objective of the mdg must also be imposed on our partners. it is not acceptable that the mackerel race in the faroe islands and iceland is trampling on the mdr, making the fishermen of the european union the only variable for adjusting fish stocks. finally, for species not subject to the quota, how does the european commission intend to ensure compliance with the mdr? the latest figures from the commission on mediterranean stocks show that there is no correlation between fishing effort and the sustainability of the resource. the mdr, to be fair and effective, must apply to everyone, everywhere and to all species.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last year we adopted the annual budget under difficult conditions because of the delay in adopting the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. this year again the discussions will not be easy, as they will interfere with the electoral calendar of the parliament. more than ever, the council and the european parliament will have to tackle the problem of payments, as has been stressed by many of the previous speakers. at the end of 2013, no less than €23.4bn of unpaid bills in the cohesion policy heading will weigh on our finances. unfortunately, we are paying the price of the council's strategy, which is constantly seeking to reduce payment appropriations. i would like to stress that the council's recent proposals on the revision of the financial regulation in connection with the carryovers of appropriations, particularly as regards the mechanism for interconnection in europe, seem to demonstrate that the council continues to envisage a policy of blind limitation of appropriations and restrictive control of the union's budget, and refuses to consider this budget as an essential element of development. however, the european budget, which is largely the responsibility of the member states, has a special role to play in promoting growth, employment and competitiveness. signs of recovery are apparent, it has been said. they need encouragement. in this respect, measures to promote training, education, infrastructure, innovation, research and smes must receive our full attention.
in writing. asylum, migration and integration policies are sensitive issues in many member states, but they are also crucial issues in the european union, especially in view of the ageing of our populations. however, taking into account the situation on the labour market in the european union, the report indicates that the use of the funds allocated has not yet sufficiently addressed the issues raised by this subject.
in writing. the creation of the asylum and migration fund for the period 2014-2020, by merging several previous funds, is an important step towards an efficient allocation of european funds. it seems to me particularly important, in this way, to combat illegal immigration in europe by promoting fair and effective return strategies in the member states. it is also important to encourage cooperation and solidarity between member states in the face of migration, in particular for those states which have the largest flows of migrants and asylum seekers. the european union must adopt a coordinated policy in this respect.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sylvie guillaume on the creation of the asylum and migration fund for the period 2014-2020. this new instrument should aim to contribute to the management of migration flows and the implementation of the common policy on asylum, subsidiary protection and temporary protection, while respecting the rights and principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the union. the report shall also specify the common specific objectives of the fund, namely the development of the common european asylum system, the encouragement of legal migration to member states in accordance with their economic and social needs, the promotion of fair and effective return strategies and the sharing of responsibilities between member states. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. we have just adopted the 'asylum' package to establish a genuine european asylum system. it is now necessary to provide for funding, in particular to facilitate its implementation.
in writing. an asylum and migration fund is particularly important in the present context, but the proposal for a regulation made here should be called the 'border assistance fund illico presto'. the breakdown of this fund between return policy, integration and asylum leaves no doubt as to the objectives pursued: 50% of the resources are earmarked for the hunt for people in an irregular situation. the report welcomes the current readmission agreements and mobility partnerships, which allow it to outsource control of the eu's external borders. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes the creation of an asylum and migration fund to take over from the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals of the previous programming period. the new fund will aim to contribute to the effective management of migration flows and to the implementation, strengthening and development of the common policy on asylum, subsidiary protection and temporary protection and the common immigration policy, in full respect of the rights and principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. too often, european waste, including end-of-life ships, is sent to the other side of the world without considering the ecological consequences of such traffic. to combat these phenomena and ensure the safe and environmentally responsible management of end-of-life vessels, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. by this vote, we give our consent to the ratification and accession by member states to the 2009 hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships. the aim of the convention is to improve the protection of human health and the environment by means of safer dismantling of ships. i think it is right to encourage the member states to take part in it.
in writing. i voted in favour of approving the ratification of the hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships. it covers the design, construction, operation and maintenance of ships with a view to facilitating their recycling without compromising their safety and operational efficiency.
in writing. this report supports the draft council decision authorising eu member states to ratify the 2009 hong kong convention on the dismantling of ships. the french parliament has already authorized ratification by france, but this question also concerns the union's competences. i have already spoken twice on this subject. i have already pointed out that the hong kong convention is imperfect in terms of protecting workers and the environment: it does not prohibit 'beaching', that is, the voluntary beaching of a ship to allow it to be dismantled on a beach. however, it marks improvements needed to better take account of the imperative of clean dismantling and recycling of ships from the moment they are built. with the renewal of orders for shipbuilding, a global phenomenon recorded since the end of 2013, and the need to deconstruct nearly 2,000 hulls per year, it is high time to put things in order. the convention must therefore be regarded as a mere text, since it does not prevent the states which have ratified it from taking stricter measures. i vote in favour, to take the lead and encourage further action.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which asks the council to invite the member states to ratify, or accede to, the 2009 hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships, for those parts falling within the exclusive competence of the union. the aim of the convention is to ensure that ships, when dismantled at the end of their operational life, do not present unnecessary risks to the health and safety of persons and to the environment. it addresses the full range of problems associated with ship dismantling, as well as concerns about working and environmental conditions in many ship-breaking facilities around the world.
in writing. this report discusses the role of the troika in dealing with the financial crisis in the euro area. the troika is the group of the european central bank (ecb), the international monetary fund (imf) and the european union (eu). despite attempts on the left to use this report to denounce the proposed austerity measures to clean up the public finances of the countries concerned, the final report is balanced, thanks in particular to the work of my colleague otmar karas. so i voted for it.
in writing. while the troika's missions, particularly in greece, are not yet completed, it seemed important to take an initial stock of them. the report makes it clear that certain decisions were clearly not democratic, and that national governments were forced to do so. the dramatic effects of some decisions have also been noted. far from giving a blank-seing, the report reiterates that financial aid to certain european countries could not be given at any price.
in writing. i voted for this report, although i would have liked to see a stronger condemnation of the activities of the troika. the imf, the ecb and the european commission failed in their primary mission, which was to reduce macroeconomic imbalances and public debt in the countries where the troika intervened. what is worse, national parliaments have often been sidelined. it is urgent to dismantle the troika, whose conditions imposed in exchange for financial aid are suffocating the peoples, and to move towards the communitization of the european stability mechanism (esm) and the creation of a european monetary fund.
in writing. this text rightly takes stock of the activities of the troika in the euro area countries which have benefited from this programme. the troika, composed of the european commission, the european central bank (ecb) and the international monetary fund (imf), was set up to implement the rescue plans for greece, ireland, portugal and cyprus. it is important to evaluate such an instrument, which has certainly brought about economic improvements in these countries, but whose organizational weaknesses must also be recognized. it would therefore be consistent for the european union to have a sound legal basis to deal effectively with such a crisis in the future.
in writing. the troika (ecb, commission and imf) has been at the heart of the implementation of the assistance programmes for some euro area member states. after a thorough study of its role, the report presented by liem hoang ngoc and othmar karas gives a precise and reasoned account of the situation in the member states concerned, which is not satisfactory at present. the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a resolution on the situation in the european union. i voted in favour of this report because i wanted us to be a force for proposals. we therefore recommend a number of measures, such as restructuring the greek debt and developing a european approach to dealing with the debt of ireland. finally, parliament called for the gradual dismantling of the troika, the communityisation of the european stability mechanism (esm) and the creation of a european monetary fund within the community framework. a civic and democratic europe must be expressed in action, especially when such important issues as the economic stability of the continent and the future of peoples who have already made so many sacrifices are at stake.
in writing. - the troika was set up as a back-up and emergency solution to save the euro area project and the economic and financial soundness of its countries. in a context of economic crisis in which decisions had to be taken urgently, a disorderly default had to be avoided, the crisis had to spread to other member states and the euro area had to be prevented from collapsing, the troika was certainly an ad hoc solution. it is true, however, that his work was at times critical and excessive, going too far beyond his mandate and his powers. we therefore believe that a mechanism should be set up focusing on the objectives of sustainable growth and financial stability, in order to prevent and avoid emergency situations as in the past, but allowing member states to implement the growth policies necessary to get out of the crisis once and for all.
in writing. the report on the troika's missions takes a critical look at the establishment of these missions and their consequences. the lack of transparency, the non-respect of the existing institutional structures, the lack of democratic legitimacy are all factors that are denounced. i also welcome the investigative work of the two co-rapporteurs, which shows the divergences of interpretation between the three institutions that are members of the troika (the ecb, the commission and the imf). these divergent interpretations have led to radical solutions favouring the interests of each of these institutions: debt reduction for the commission, bank protection for the ecb, wage cuts for the imf. the report justifies this situation by the urgency of finding a response to the risk of default by the states and supports a change of instruments through the new european texts grouped in the "six-pack" and the "two-pack". for my part, i cannot support the call for the troika's benchmark mechanisms to be incorporated into european law through these texts which give priority to deficit reduction over all other considerations, including social ones. that is why, despite the interesting points it contains, i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of programmes in response to the request for financial assistance from certain euro-area countries. the solidarity of the member states has helped to avoid a default by several states and a spread of the crisis. in order to better prepare europe for such contingencies, the union should create a european monetary fund to support countries facing insolvency problems.
in writing. this report, both informative and effective, looks back at the failures of the troika in responding to the sovereign debt crisis of 2010. it has, however, been overloaded with liberal considerations, which clearly appear as reversed pieces. he took up some of the liberal language on the so-called 'structural' aspects of the crisis and defended the usefulness of past financial assistance from the eu and the imf. on the contrary, we believe that this action has worsened the crisis as shown by the indicators of recession and rising debts in the 'assisted' countries. the report rightly points to the democratic shortcomings and the opacity of each of the three components of the troika in the elaboration and control of the plans for financial assistance to states in difficulty. in a sometimes schizophrenic way, this report also insists on the lack of positive results of the massive austerity plans and the unreality of the assumptions on which they are based. however, he went on to observe that 'the economic and social consequences would have been more severe without the financial and technical assistance of the european union and the imf'. the report does not clearly take a position for the immediate halt of austerity programmes and their replacement by a coordinated recovery policy in europe. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted for this report, which is a relentless indictment of the troika's crimes, particularly in greece, but not only. the report provides a detailed and forceful account of how the imf, the ecb and the commission failed in their dual mission of reducing macroeconomic imbalances and public debt in the countries where the troika intervened. the report continues to paint a ruthless portrait of the mistakes made, which have dramatic consequences: increased inequality and poverty, mass unemployment, decreased life expectancy, because the art of criticism is easy. there are specific proposals for breaking out of this vicious circle, accompanied by a responsible timetable in several stages.
in writing. in parallel with the work of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the troika, the committee on employment and social affairs also prepared a report on this subject. the report deplores the social consequences of the crisis, but acknowledges that they are not due to the role of the troika but to the fragility of the public finances of the states concerned. the report stresses the need to better prepare the union for such crises, which has already been very much implemented by the financial regulation and economic governance tools that the union has had since 2009. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. although the social models of some countries which received the troika's 'aid' required significant changes, it is undeniable that the harshness and speed of the implementation of some of its recommendations had catastrophic effects on employment and social aspects in the countries concerned. it was important that the european parliament should send this message to both the troika leaders and the peoples concerned.
in writing. this paper discusses the effects on employment and social conditions of the populations of the countries which have benefited from the rescue plans put in place as part of the activities of the troika, composed of the european commission, the ecb and the imf. it seems to me important to emphasize that the economic adjustment programmes have had a considerable impact on employment in these countries. such programmes should therefore focus more on social imbalances, in particular through return to employment plans and the creation of favourable conditions for the development of smes.
in writing. the report presented by alejandro cercas to the parliamentary committee took an uncompromising view of the troika's missions. by imposing systematic budget cuts, advocating reforms of health and social protection systems, failing to respect the mechanisms in place to adjust wages and deliberately sidelining the social partners, these missions have clearly gone beyond european competence. the right wing of parliament, however, has put aside the illegality of the troika's missions and has concentrated only on the social consequences of these missions: the rise in unemployment, poverty, inequality, emigration of the most qualified young people, the breakdown of social protection systems. clear and impartial work on the causes of this social catastrophe has therefore been deliberately reduced by the right wing, focusing only on the consequences, which are irrefutable. i support the analysis in this report of the social consequences of the troika's missions, but i regret the lack of any indication of the causes. nor could i agree with the right-wing additions to the "macroeconomic adjustments" which are so much an advocacy for competitiveness and flexicurity. that's why i decided not to.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which sets out the employment and social aspects of the troika's activities. the unprecedented economic and financial crisis has exposed the fragility of public finances in some member states, and the measures taken in response to this situation have had an impact on the employment and living conditions of many people.
in writing. this report is highly critical of the social record of the troika's austerity programmes in greece, cyprus, portugal and ireland. it points in particular to their effects on rising unemployment, precariousness, lower minimum wages and poverty. the report rightly deplores the absence of any right of the european parliament to influence the determination of these austerity plans. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. several recommendations are in line with the left front's position since the beginning of the crisis, in particular the call for an end to austerity programmes and for increased spending on public health and education. nevertheless, this report is part of a framework which continues to give priority over time to budgetary adjustment. i believe, on the contrary, that social policies must always be given priority and that budgetary sustainability comes at that price. i regret that this report advocates 'flexi-security', which is synonymous with increased precariousness everywhere. i am voting against it because i do not want to endorse these wrong choices.
in writing. the european parliament has issued numerous criticisms of the troika, highlighting the disastrous methods used to manage the economic and financial crisis in four eu countries (greece, portugal, ireland, cyprus). this own-initiative report examined the economic and social impact of adjustment programmes in these countries. initially, this document was very critical and directly linked the social degradation experienced in these countries to the adjustment programmes. unfortunately, as a result of the negotiations to reach a compromise with the other institutions, the report lost its strength and the role of the troika is legitimized. i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which takes note of the unprecedented economic and financial crisis which has highlighted the fragility of public finances in some member states. economic adjustment programmes adopted in response to the situation in greece (may 2010 and march 2012), ireland (december 2010), portugal (may 2011) and cyprus (june 2013) have had direct and indirect effects on the employment level and living conditions of many people. in the light of these findings, the deterioration of employment, the disappearance of smes, a major cause of the weak recovery in these countries, and the increasing impoverishment and social exclusion in the member states concerned, this report calls on the commission to carry out a detailed study of the economic and social consequences of the economic and financial crisis and the adjustment programmes implemented to remedy it in the four countries concerned, in order to accurately assess the short and long-term effects on employment and social protection systems, as well as on the european social acquis.
in writing. the european parliament worked on the socioeconomic consequences of austerity policies in countries that requested assistance from the troika when the sovereign debt crisis was at its height in europe. many amendments have been tabled and my votes reflect my deep convictions on the matter. i would simply like to express my regret at the lack of consultation of the social partners of the european union and the international labour organisation in the preparation of the rescue plans. i also urge the european institutions, in conjunction with the member states, to set up recovery plans focused on helping smes, making good use of the european structural funds to promote employment, restore quality public services and limit all forms of social exclusion. i therefore encourage the council of europe and the ilo to propose corrective measures and incentive policies which would improve the social situation in these countries. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is a good thing that we are debating and looking back at the way in which the crisis has been handled. the european union must learn from the past and move forward.
in writing. the troika , set up in march 2010 by heads of state and government to negotiate the terms of financial assistance to greece, has contributed to a growing sense of mistrust of the european union among citizens. the response to the crises experienced by some member states must be more political and less technocratic. the european union must exercise active solidarity rather than impose inappropriate plans. the european parliament therefore recommends that transparent and binding rules be established on the allocation of tasks between the troika and the public authorities of the states concerned. programmes will also have to take account of the social and employment aspects and each country receiving financial assistance should have a 'growth task force'. parliament also called for the creation of a european monetary fund.
in writing. the asylum and migration fund for the period 2014-2020 succeeds the european refugee fund, the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals and the european return fund. i voted in favour of this text, which provides the european union with new means to control migration flows and to ensure the return of illegal immigrants to the country in dignified conditions, thanks to a total budget of eur 3.1 billion.
in writing. this provides the necessary financial support for police cooperation, the prevention and repression of crime and crisis management within the european union. it thus lays down the general provisions for the asylum and migration fund. i particularly appreciate the effort that has been made to make the financial management and implementation of this fund more flexible so that it is better able to react to unforeseen situations. it is also important to take into account the different situations in each member state, some of which are subject to greater risks than others.
in writing. the general provisions of the various funds for internal affairs are balanced and pragmatic. the actions financed must bring european added value. unannounced inspections may take place. some flexibility is also left to allow for emergency response. a retroactivity clause was inserted so that the funds could run from 1 january 2014.
in writing. this general regulation regulates the allocation and use of funds in the fields of asylum, internal security and, above all, immigration. the report notes 'the increased difficulties faced by frontex', without proposing anything and without guaranteeing financial solidarity with the countries directly concerned by the management of the external borders. the report also makes an unacceptable amalgamation of security and immigration. finally, the simplification of the organisation into two funds cannot hide the severe cuts made in favour of a migration policy focused on the return of 'unnecessary' migrants to meet the union's economic needs. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need for an integrated approach to the issues raised by migratory pressures and asylum applications, as well as to the management of the union's external borders, in full respect of international law and human rights law, in a spirit of solidarity between all member states, without disregarding the need to respect national prerogatives.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to create an instrument for financial support for police cooperation, the prevention and repression of crime and crisis management. this instrument should aim, inter alia, at preventing crime and at strengthening coordination and cooperation between law enforcement authorities and other authorities of the member states, in particular with europol or other relevant union bodies, and with international organisations and relevant third countries. i voted in favour of the creation of this fund.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which establishes an internal security fund focusing on police cooperation, crime prevention and combating, and crisis management. such an instrument is essential to enhance the security of european citizens on the ground in the face of these phenomena of an international nature. it seems to me that it is essential to give ourselves the means to fight crime in europe while strengthening the capacity of the member states to manage risks and crises effectively. i therefore encourage good cooperation with the european union agencies, such as europol, to achieve this objective.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague salvatore iacolino on the internal security fund in the field of police cooperation, crime prevention and repression, and crisis management. the main objective of this financial instrument is to contribute to a high level of security in the european union by preventing crime, encouraging cooperation between law enforcement authorities at european and international level and strengthening the capacity of member states and the union to manage risks and protect people and infrastructure against attacks. the report also stresses the need for synergies between the fund and other eu financial instruments, such as the civil protection mechanism or the solidarity fund, and external aid instruments. i welcome the adoption of this report.
police cooperation is essential for the establishment of a european area of freedom, security and justice. we must do everything we can to facilitate exchanges and cooperation between police forces and law enforcement authorities. and organized crime remains a problem of concern. we must strengthen our policies in this area. i welcome the opportunity to finance such actions at european level.
in writing. this proposal for a commission regulation aims to allocate part of the internal security fund to the financial support instrument for police cooperation, crime prevention and repression and crisis management. in an atlanticist logic, he pushed for deeper cooperation with nato and called for more public-private partnerships, particularly in the fight against terrorism. the report ignores the snowden revelations and continues to advocate close cooperation with europol, which is itself working with the fbi. finally, he does not criticise frontex, which, however, is not without reports from ngos denouncing its failure to respect fundamental rights in the treatment and reception of migrants. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to create, within the framework of the internal security fund, an instrument for financial support for police cooperation, crime prevention and repression, and crisis management. this fund would take over the specific programme on the prevention of and fight against crime which this regulation would abolish. the instrument should aim, inter alia, at preventing crime and enhancing coordination and cooperation between law enforcement authorities and other authorities of the member states, in particular with europol or other relevant union bodies and with international organisations and relevant third countries.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to create an instrument for financial support for the management of external borders and the common visa policy. the general objective of this instrument is to contribute to ensuring a high level of security in the european union. it should facilitate legitimate travel through a uniform and high level of external border control and the efficient processing of schengen visas. i voted in favour of the creation of this fund.
in writing. this text provides the european union with the essential instrument for the effective management of its external borders and its common visa policy by establishing an internal security fund. i believe it is essential that the union has the means to provide strong protection for its external borders in order to combat illegal immigration. an adequate common visa policy in europe is also important to ensure equal treatment in the different member states. i therefore approve of the intensification of the systems of control and surveillance at the external borders. this requires, in particular, the proper functioning of the eurosur system (european system for the surveillance of external borders).
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague marian-jean marinescu on the fund for the creation, within the framework of the internal security fund, of the financial support instrument in the field of external borders and visas. the main objective of this instrument is to contribute to ensuring a high level of security in the european union while facilitating legitimate travel through a uniform and high level of external border control and the efficient processing of schengen visas. the fund will contribute to the development of smart borders and border surveillance computer systems. it will also contribute to actions for the efficient management of migration flows, as well as to visa application processing and consular cooperation. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. strengthening control of our external borders is essential. we must provide adequate funding and support for projects to better control migration flows, strengthen border controls and take full advantage of the new technologies at our disposal.
in writing. the report advocates the creation of a "two-pillar" financial structure, one of the objectives of which is to "simplify financing in the field of home affairs". it aims above all to strengthen cooperation between the member states and frontex, with a view to combating illegal immigration in particular. the commission is proposing to strengthen the tracking and tracing of migrants by strengthening 'smart borders', which is accompanied by the transmission of personal data that is not sufficiently controlled. it also promotes the development of eurosur, which works alongside frontex. i reject this security logic and i vote against it.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the objectives of this financial instrument are to combat migratory flows from non-eu countries in a preventive and repressive manner. the text sets out the following objectives: to achieve a high level of border protection and to boost the operational capacity of the frontex agency, to support border management, to strengthen national border control capacities and, finally, to finance the european surveillance system (eurosur). i decided to vote against this text in order to oppose the introduction of a repressive immigration policy at the borders which in no way protects fundamental human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to create, within the framework of the internal security fund, an instrument of financial support in the field of external borders and visas. the general objective of this instrument will be to contribute to ensuring a high level of security in the european union. it should facilitate legitimate travel through a uniform and high level of external border control and the efficient processing of schengen visas.
in writing. the proposal for a directive aims to review in depth the way network and information security is approached in the european union. it provides for the imposition of regulatory obligations so that the rules are the same everywhere and existing legislative gaps can be filled. i share these objectives and have voted in favour of the report prepared by my colleague mr a. schwab.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to guarantee a high level of network and information security in the union. it is also a question of establishing fair rules throughout the union and promoting cross-border cooperation. for example, it is planned to set up one-stop shops in each member state. this is a measure which i believe is very much in line with the efforts made by the union in the field of cybersecurity.
in writing. i have supported this legislative report on the implementation of measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security in the european union. network and information security is indeed fundamental, and all the more complex to ensure because of constant technological progress. i was in favour of a wider scope, including, as originally proposed by the european commission, information society service providers and public administrations. despite the restriction of scope finally adopted, the text provides a more acceptable basis for negotiation by the member states than the commission's initial proposal, which is currently 'blocked' in the council due to the sensitivity of the issues addressed (cybersecurity).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve network and information security in the union by requiring operators in key sectors such as energy, health and banking to notify the competent national authorities of security incidents.
in writing. the proposal for a directive aims to raise the common level of security of networks and information systems. due to the interpenetration of networks, significant disruptions of those networks and systems in one member state may have an impact on other member states and on the union as a whole. this is the type of technical loophole used by the nsa to practice surveillance of its european "partners". i regret that not a single line in this report has been used to denounce american espionage. finally, the report aims to develop exchanges between public and private actors, in order to foster a culture of 'risk management' and to build on 'the efforts made by market actors'. the aim is to follow the example of the private sector in terms of security. there's no way that's going to happen. i am abstaining in order not to oppose the raising of safety standards, while remaining very doubtful about their effectiveness.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to ensure a high common level of network and information security (nis) in the union. in order to improve the effectiveness of the proposed measures, the report considers that the current directive, as a starting point, should be limited to certain operators, protect investments in network and information security that have already been made, and avoid duplication in institutional structures and obligations imposed on market players.
in writing. with the increasing interconnectedness of our networks and information systems, we are exposed to new risks that spread across borders. personal data collected by private and public actors in areas such as energy, transport or health are sometimes highly sensitive and therefore need to be protected more closely. i voted in favour of this report, which provides concrete answers to the challenges that are currently being faced: designation of competent national authorities, a platform for cooperation and exchange of information between member states, an incident reporting system, a sanctions panel, etc. these measures are designed to prevent any misuse of such data. it is about consumer protection and the safety of european citizens, which are very close to my heart. i am therefore glad that we now have a european legislative framework in this area.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to establish a union programme to support specific activities in the field of financial reporting and auditing for the period 2014-2020. with the financial market crisis since 2008, financial reporting and auditing have become a top priority for eu policy. an effective common framework for financial information is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market and capital markets and for the achievement of an integrated market for financial services in the union. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. this text establishes a union programme to support specific activities in the field of financial reporting and auditing for the period 2014-2020. i support this important step towards better comparability and transparency of company accounts throughout the european union. it is appropriate to support such a text which would promote the consolidation of a single market for financial services and capital.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union programme to support specific activities in the field of financial reporting and auditing for the period 2014-2020. this programme aims to provide sufficient funds through a union contribution for the functioning of the committees of supervisors and for the definition of international accounting and auditing standards. it also ensures that beneficiaries are able to fulfil their public interest mission independently and efficiently through transparent, diversified, secure and adequate funding.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement allowing the union to co-finance the activities of financial reporting and audit bodies. the aim is to ensure the comparability and transparency of company accounts within the union and to promote these audit standards at european and international level. the beneficiary bodies will have to ensure their independence and the economical use of public funds.
in writing. in 2002, the union decided to adopt international financial reporting standards (ifrs) to harmonise financial reporting and control rules. the regulation proposed here is intended to extend the programme of support for the activities of international organisations in the field of financial information and auditing, which was introduced at the time. these organizations systematically promote anglo-saxon accounting standards which concentrate all economic and financial information in the interests of shareholders, whereas accounting standards in the general interest should, on the contrary, give priority to criteria of productive, ecological, fiscal and social information. the aim of this harmonization is therefore exclusively to facilitate the free movement of international capital. this will contribute to further tax evasion and lead to increased volatility in global financial markets. it is a matter of 'serving the shareholders'. i do not want to encourage this financialisation of the economy at the expense of the real economy, so i am voting against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to establish a union programme for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020 to support the activities of bodies which contribute to the achievement of the union's policy objectives in the field of financial reporting and auditing. with the financial market crisis since 2008, financial reporting and auditing have become a top priority of the union's policy. the establishment of an effective common framework for financial reporting is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market and capital markets and for the emergence of an integrated market for financial services in the union.
in writing. in response to the explosion in the number of mobile electronic devices in recent years, the european commission has proposed harmonising the applicable rules, for example to avoid interference between products or to ensure that all devices will soon be able to be charged using a single, always compatible charger. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of this directive, which provides for the adoption of a universal charger for radio equipment. our aim is to force manufacturers to make their phones compatible with each other so that this single charger will not only end the nightmare of millions of users, but also reduce the costs associated with buying phones, and finally and above all reduce the volume of electronic waste in the european union.
in writing. this text updates the rules on radio equipment (any product using spectrum allocated to terrestrial or space radio communications). the aim is to lay down essential requirements for health and safety protection, electromagnetic compatibility and the prevention of potential interference. the main objective is to increase the level of compliance of all such equipment. i particularly support the idea of developing a universal charger, which will simplify the use of radio equipment (mobile phones, smartphones, tablets, etc.) and contribute to reducing waste.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague barbara weiler's report on radio equipment, which introduces essential provisions on health protection, safety and interoperability, while simplifying the regulatory framework. the direct application of this directive will be the widespread use of universal chargers for mobile phones, which has long been demanded by european consumers. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to update the rules on radio equipment to ensure a high level of health and safety protection. the text also aims to improve the compatibility of equipment and accessories such as mobile phone chargers.
in writing. the r&tte directive establishes a framework for the placing on the market, free movement and putting into service in the union of radio equipment and telecommunications terminal equipment. it entered into force in 1999 and sets out essential requirements for health and safety protection, electromagnetic compatibility and the prevention of harmful interference. the increase in the number of mobile devices creates a risk of interference between the various products. it is therefore essential that the radio spectrum is used efficiently. that is the subject of the text before us. it aims to redefine the standards applicable to the different types of appliances. as always, however, the main aim is to harmonize and simplify in order to ensure free competition in the internal market. environmental, safety and equal access to services are being pushed into the background where they should be. it says nothing about the precautionary rights of citizens. i'm not going to.
in writing. this report concerns the proposal for a revision of directive 1999/5/ec on radio equipment and telecommunications terminal equipment and the mutual recognition of their conformity (r & tte directive). compared with the commission's proposal, this report provides administrative simplifications for smes and opposes the prior registration of radio equipment before it is placed on the market (as proposed by the commission). it also approved the promotion of compatibility between radio equipment and its accessories and proposed that manufacturers be required to have a universal charger. this report will thus make it possible to regulate this market more adequately, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which updates the rules on radio equipment to ensure a high level of health and safety protection, electromagnetic compatibility and efficient use of spectrum to avoid harmful interference, while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. the text will contribute to the effort to increase the conformity of equipment placed on the market, including the establishment of a system for the registration of low-conformity products, and to the maintenance of the compulsory accompanying declaration of conformity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the future budget for 2015 because it recalls the delicate economic and budgetary situation in which the european union and its member states are currently found and calls for further measures. for example, it seems to me essential that own resources (part of vat or other) be allocated quickly to the union so that it can finally carry out fully the tasks entrusted to it without taking into account the budgetary implications of these tasks.
in writing. this text deals with the general guidelines for the 2015 budget. two principles are very well underlined: the need to provide citizens with the tools to help them out of the crisis and the need to respect the european union's legal and political commitments in terms of payment appropriations. it seems to me quite appropriate that, in order to encourage the first signs of economic recovery within the european union, it is necessary to emphasize the need to encourage investment in research and innovation, as well as in projects by smes. this would boost competitiveness and employment. this is why adequate structural and investment funds are essential.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the general guidelines for the 2015 budget. the structural and investment funds represent one of the largest shares of union expenditure, have delivered tangible results and can help member states and regions to overcome the current crisis and achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. priority should be given to education and mobility, research and innovation, smes and entrepreneurship, in order to boost competitiveness and contribute to job creation.
in writing. this report proposes guidelines for the future 2015 budget of the union. it illustrates the budgetary powerlessness of parliament, which is organised by the treaties and aggravated by the undemocratic practice of the commission and the council. the european parliament is forced to repeat for 2015 the warnings it has already made in vain for the 2013 and 2014 budgets. the collection of new priorities to be financed is only a token item, since the budgets do not even cover the mountains of unpaid debts of previous years. the under-implementation of budgets has become the commission's specialty for arbitrarily squeezing expenditure. at the end of 2013, 23.4 billion euro was outstanding, representing 16% of the current budget, for cohesion policy alone. the report nevertheless endorses the budgetary framework which is the cause of these delays. it notes that the 2015 budget will be lower than the 2013 budget. this should further increase the number of unpaid payments and make it totally impossible to spend the funds for employment and youth in advance, as announced by mrs merkel and mr hollande. like a letter from parliament to santa claus, this report shows that the european budgetary procedure is a democratic travesty. i vote against it.
in writing. as a co-author of this resolution, i voted in favour of this text which calls for support for ukraine and for stricter sanctions against russia for its repeated violations of international law in crimea. the preservation of ukraine's territorial integrity remains the priority and the european union calls for an accelerated rapprochement with ukraine to help it cope with this ordeal, which is reminiscent of the dark hours of the soviet period.
in writing. as russia prepares to welcome a 'dissident' region of ukraine, it was necessary for the european parliament to reaffirm its opposition to the forcible annexation of part of ukrainian territory, in clear violation of international law. sanctions and strong reactions from the heads of state or government and european officials are imperative to maintaining ukraine's territorial integrity.
in writing. in view of the latest developments in crimea and the threats to the territorial integrity of ukraine, the european parliament decided to send a strong message to russia, which should clarify its intentions as soon as possible. russia, i repeat, is a key partner of ukraine and must continue to be that of the european union. however, the ambiguous statements of its leaders and the military manoeuvres that are being observed pose a threat to ukraine that the union can no longer ignore. the european leaders have announced financial aid of 11 billion, the exact details of which have yet to be specified. at the same time, i urge them to intensify their dialogue with the russian authorities so that a diplomatic solution can be found quickly, that russia renounces its annexation of crimea and that the escalation of tensions which is weakening ukraine and destabilising the whole region is brought to an end.
in writing. i supported and co-signed the resolution condemning the invasion of crimea by russian military forces. this aggression by the russian federation under false pretenses undermines the territorial integrity of ukraine and is a clear violation of international law as well as several agreements between ukraine and russia. the resolution also stresses the illegitimacy and illegality of the announcement of a referendum in crimea on joining the russian federation, as it violates the ukrainian constitution and the principles of international law. in this resolution, parliament welcomes the decision to impose targeted sanctions on several ukrainian and russian officials. it also welcomed the european commission's decision to unblock an aid plan for ukraine in order to contribute to the economic and financial stabilisation of the country. europe must help the ukrainians to make a successful economic and democratic transition. the ukrainian struggle is about our interests, our values and our credibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the russian invasion of ukraine, which strongly condemns the aggression perpetrated by russia by invading the ukrainian territory of crimea. we call for the immediate withdrawal of all military forces illegally present on ukrainian territory and for full respect for international law.
in writing. this resolution is aimed at one thing only: unilaterally condemning russia, on the pretext that it has invaded crimea. that's not my view of things, nor my position. ukraine is not a member of the eu or nato. as a result, neither the eu nor nato have the authority under international law to intervene in ukraine. the atlanticist bias of the authors of this report is clear, since they call for 'close transatlantic cooperation on measures to resolve the crisis'. in a bellicose escalation, the rapporteurs welcome the sanctions already taken against russia and they are enthusiastically considering new retaliatory measures, in total denial of the risks of war that arise from them, despite the risks of unconditional support for the current de facto authorities, formed by a political coalition including neo-nazi members, which parliament formally denounced in december 2012. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text so that the union can quickly take economic sanctions against russia if the situation in crimea does not calm down, in particular by means of an embargo on weapons and technologies with both civilian and military uses.
in writing. i voted against this resolution on the situation in ukraine. there is no question of validating the €11 billion 'aid' plan, concocted in cooperation with the imf, by which the european union reaffirms its willingness to sign an entire so-called deep and comprehensive free trade agreement as soon as possible. while condemning russia's attitude, and in particular the use of military force in ukraine, i can only deplore the outbid of both sides, with ukraine becoming the battleground of geopolitical competition between two imperialisms, russia on the one hand and the western bloc, comprising the united states and the european union, on the other. it's like we're back in the good old days of the cold war. this political crisis cannot be resolved by violence or by the decisions of "transitional authorities", where far-right political groups (such as the svoboda party) hold several ministerial posts, all in a climate of widespread corruption, with neither side having anything to envy the other. a lasting solution can only be found by the ukrainian people themselves, independently of any foreign interference.
in writing. this report provides an initial assessment of the implementation of the treaty of lisbon (2009), and in particular of the new powers conferred on the european parliament. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important in substance and balanced in its wording. the next step will now be the holding of european elections on 25 may 2014 with, for the first time, the possibility for european citizens to choose (indirectly) the president of the european commission, again an innovation allowed by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of my friend paulo rangel's report because it contains, in my opinion, a very dangerous proposal to reduce the majority required for a motion of censure on the european commission to a simple majority of the members of the european parliament, whereas at present a double majority is required: two thirds of the votes cast and a majority of the members of the european parliament. the fact that this reduction must be made without jeopardizing the functioning of the institutions does not seem to me to be of a nature to remove the dangerous nature of this proposal. it merits a wider institutional political debate and, in my view, introduces a significant risk of institutional instability in an assembly that does not have a stable majority. i had tabled an amendment to mitigate this proposal but it was considered to be covered by the compromise, which is not true. it is in this context that i have decided not to approve this report, which contains excellent proposals.
in writing. the european parliament, the only institution directly elected by european citizens, must in future, in accordance with the treaties, play a leading role in the formulation and implementation of european policies. the next european elections in may will be an opportunity for this new assembly to weigh in on the composition of the european commission.
in writing. this report takes stock of the implementation of the lisbon treaty, which was a crucial step in strengthening the european parliament's powers as a co-legislator. it rightly stresses the need to consolidate the democratic legitimacy of the european union. the european parliament's election of the candidates for the presidency of the commission is therefore an important procedure. it is right to recall the need for good cooperation between these two institutions in order to ensure that the interests of european citizens are well represented.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to assess the implementation of the lisbon treaty, which in particular strengthens the role of the european parliament. in this respect, the sharing of information with parliament should be improved, particularly in the context of international agreements, which have an increasing influence on the lives of european citizens.
in writing. this motion for a resolution reflects the anti-democratic cynicism of the european leaders and their desire to further distance the european union from the sovereignty of the peoples. the commission welcomes the lisbon treaty, which it says aims to 'strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the european union'. on the contrary, it has strengthened the role of the commission to counter the risk of 'parliamentarisation'. the authors here propose to further increase the political influence of the commission, a body devoid of any democratic legitimacy, a way of increasing the gap between the european union and the sovereignty of the peoples. i am voting against this motion for a resolution which reinforces the authoritarian nature of the present european union since the treaty, the budgetary treaty and the troika.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which assesses the implementation of the lisbon treaty, paying particular attention to the impact of the main changes it has introduced on the interinstitutional relations between the european parliament and the commission since its entry into force. the report stresses the need to strengthen the democratic legitimacy, independence and political role of the commission by linking more directly the choice of the electorate to the election of its president.
in writing. in accordance with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, the european council will have to take account of the outcome of the european elections when appointing the president of the commission. once the nominee has been appointed, he will be required to explain to parliament the political orientations of his mandate. this is a real step forward for the union, which will gain legitimacy vis-à-vis the peoples of europe. in the end, the president of the commission should even be elected by direct universal suffrage. the future commissioners should be selected on the basis of their competence, independence and european commitment. to do this, the president-elect of the commission must be able to act more autonomously in the selection process of members of an executive composed equally of men and women. finally, a majority of the members of the next commission should be chosen from among the elected members of parliament. more generally, the way the european executive works will have to be re-examined in the future. we will have to carry out a reform that leads to simple, clear, legible institutions, the designation of which the people have a say, because europe is in vital need of a genuine democratic refoundation.
in writing. the total value of illegal and unregistered goods in developing countries is estimated at over $9.3 trillion, equivalent to 93 times the total amount of foreign aid given to developing countries over the past 30 years. promoting land regimes and empowering individuals to manage their own resources could be one of the greatest successes of the 21st century, but also one of the greatest challenges ever. that is why i voted in favour of this text which examines the various possibilities for mobilising these funds and methods in order to achieve the eradication of poverty.
in writing. the lack of property rights undermines the growth of developing countries. the establishment of land schemes is a sure means of capital formation. this makes it possible to have a guarantee in order to obtain loans at reduced rates. this is the view shared by this text. i particularly welcome the desire to promote the application of property rights for women, who are often affected by inequalities in access to property in these countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague nirj deva on the role of property rights, property regimes and wealth creation in eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable development in developing countries. the report states that the existence of registered and recognised property rights is a driver of economic growth. it thus encourages the implementation of a roadmap for the guarantee of land rights, including property rights, and the establishment of sustainable land governance in developing countries. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the deva report considers that the existence of registered and recognised property rights is a driver of economic growth. it confuses the possession of title to land on the one hand, with access to land and the security of exploitation on the other, which can help to reduce poverty. nor does it recognize that the root cause of poverty is the unequal distribution of wealth. the right to life is the result of the primacy of the right to private property over other rights, in particular the right to life. so it is also by putting limits on private property that poverty can be reduced. the report does have some good points, however: it denounces land grabbing and highlights that subsidies for biofuel production play a major role. it pays special attention to women's access to property. to encourage such analyses, i vote in favour.
in writing. this own-initiative report considers that the existence of property rights recognised by the collection of reliable data is a driver of economic growth. in his initial report, the rapporteur only referred in the margins to the various existing systems of 'customary rights' to land (no title deeds). ninety-two amendments were tabled to abandon this position in favour of the approach developed by the united nations habitat study (2008). it calls for the protection and strengthening of traditional forms of access to land and the defence of the rights of indigenous peoples, women and marginalized groups. the study also points out that a process of titration could lead to a concentration of agricultural land. many of these amendments were finally accepted and the final report is therefore much more satisfactory than the initial version. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to develop a more comprehensive approach to the policies of the european union and its development partners. a 'macro' approach would make it possible to rationalize costs and above all to increase efficiency, which is the most important thing when we talk about development.
in writing. i supported this text which calls for greater coherence and better rationalisation of european policies for development. it is quite appropriate to define priority areas of action, such as the fight against social and environmental dumping or the coherent management of migration flows. similarly, it is appropriate to carry out evaluations of the development impact of the main union policies to ensure their effectiveness and coherence.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague charles goerens on the 2013 report on policy coherence for development. the report proposes a number of measures to make the objective of policy coherence for development operational and suggests priority areas for action, including migration management, trade, social, agricultural, energy and environmental issues. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the report recommends the establishment of an arbitration mechanism to "prevent inconsistencies arising from the policies pursued by the union in order to avoid negative spillovers on developing countries". at least the report acknowledges the negative consequences of the union's policies. that's a good start! it even denounces social and environmental dumping and tax evasion, but the judge in this arbitration is supposed to be the president of the commission! the very same one that promotes these devastating policies. the developing countries will then be able to say, "five more minutes, mr. executioner". parliament and the states obviously have no say in this matter. i am voting against this absurd solution to problems which are so serious and so clearly established.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which recalls that policy coherence for development has become a global policy tool. the aim of the latter is to prevent inconsistencies arising from the policies pursued by the union in order to avoid negative spillovers on developing countries. this paper focuses on the method and mechanisms for ensuring optimum consistency in order to prevent certain inconsistencies.
in writing. the 25th session of the united nations human rights council is taking place from 3 to 28 march 2014 in geneva. since it is important that the european union brings its values and priorities to such international meetings, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. each year, parliament votes a resolution on the mandate given to its delegation to the annual conference of the human rights council. the aim is to establish the union's human rights priorities. this tedious and partial list does not take account of parliament's positions on the subject, or even of the conference's agenda. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted against this text which was not balanced. he is also critical of countries such as morocco and china for their human rights policies. i think it is a mistake and a very bad signal to our partner countries that we do not take into account the specificities and efforts of certain countries in the field of human rights.
the author. - mr president, after the re-election of vladimir putin as president of the russian federation for the third time in may 2012, after what can be called a democratic manipulation, tens of thousands of demonstrators marched on bolotnaya square in the heart of moscow. according to ngos, police provocations have led to clashes and random arrests. of those eventually charged, some were granted presidential amnesty in december, on the eve of the sochi olympics, others were not. go find out why! the prince's doing and, in any case, the most total arbitrariness. in a farcical trial, seven protesters were sentenced on february 24 to prison terms ranging from two and a half to four years. the olympics are over, the crackdown may resume. this trial is therefore part of the wave of repression that began in 2012. the arsenal of repressive laws is also supplemented by targeted repression against opponents in general [nbsp]lgbt activists, journalists and human rights defenders in particular and harassment of independent ngos, not to mention the widespread corruption of the administration and the impunity of law enforcement agencies. clearly, putin's takeover of the country has been progressing at a rapid pace for the past two years. i cannot help but point out a certain hypocrisy. the current situation is not new but some member states have tended to protect moscow in recent times. russia is the main energy supplier to some member states and there are many financial interests to be defended in russia. the russian military intervention in crimea seems to have moved the lines and we are now looking at the human rights situation in that country. russia is characterized by an autocratic, kleptocratic and reactionary system of government. the first victims are its citizens, the democrats and the progressives. it is therefore with them in mind, with all those who are fighting against this regime and, in particular, with the leaders and activists of memorial, to whom we have awarded the sakharov prize, that i have signed this resolution on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left, and i shall vote in favour of it.
author. - mr president, in uganda, what we have feared for two years has happened: president museveni has finally signed into law, on 24 february, the law that criminalizes homosexuality. the death penalty was changed to life imprisonment: "a homosexual is a sick man, said the president, and he cannot be killed". in nigeria, the same is true with the enactment of a similar law on january 13. the first victims were sentenced to fifteen lashes. in both countries the situation was difficult, since homosexuality was already severely repressed. now they have gone to a place where they think that the persecution of homosexuals is permissible, in a context where certain voices, particularly from the evangelical and catholic churches in the united states, have a clear influence, a clear bad influence on the populations. the climate of tension, hostility and deception is already sadly at work. the ugandan tabloid published on february 15 identified 200 people with their names and photographs as evidence. we remember that a first tabloid published in 2011 cost david kato his life. we had an emergency resolution on it at the time. such laws force the reporting of information and dangerously fuel hatred. their terms are deliberately vague, leaving those who will apply them free to abuse them. it is well known that the lack of legal clarity always benefits those who are only in charge of education. a country party to the cotonou agreement that promulgates a liberticidal and discriminatory law like this cannot get away with a few criticisms and rantings. uganda and nigeria must repeal these laws which are in breach of their international commitments. we need to put pressure on these states using article 96 of the cotonou agreement, but also by publicly, politically and financially supporting ngos defending lgbt people. it is necessary to emphasize how essential their involvement on the ground is in order to work towards a real change of mentality, which alone can overcome obscurantism, wherever it comes from. helping ngos and enforcing the cotonou agreements are not contradictory. for once, we can do something useful.
author. - mr president, the sinai has indeed become a veritable no-go zone for those who live there and for those who pass through. it has indeed become a jihadist sanctuary as well. the terrorist attack on a south korean tourist bus on february 16th is a sign of a worsening situation and a climate of chronic violence, which has deep-seated and endemic causes. sinai is a vast place. the two states concerned in this area, egypt and israel, neglect the populations, especially the bedouin, by failing to meet their human and social needs, and even adopt repressive measures against them. it is well known that in a place where there is no law, mafia networks and trafficking of all kinds proliferate. in the sinai, the mafia is engaged in a particularly morbid trafficking of human beings and specifically of organs. the gruesome discoveries of bodies of people from sub-saharan countries, mutilated and drained of their organs, bear witness to this. the sinai is a dense transit zone, a mandatory passage for many migrants from sudan, eritrea and libya, who almost systematically suffer extortion, torture, kidnapping, murder and rape. egypt and israel refuse to consider their asylum claims, or send them directly to the prison camp, in violation of international law. we know all this very well. i wish the resolution had been more balanced between the two protagonists. that is why the confederal group of the european united left - nordic green left did not sign it, but we will vote for it nonetheless.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the clinical trials regulation can bring about a revolution in the practice of clinical trials in europe for several reasons: firstly, procedures will be harmonised throughout the union, which will greatly facilitate the development and implementation of european multicentre clinical trials. the second point is that the procedures will be simplified, which will obviously make life easier for promoters, especially university promoters m.[nbsp ]borg recalled how many they were , who will now have only one interlocutor and not a flop of absolutely anonymous interlocutors most of the time. thirdly, the procedures will be shortened. these shorter deadlines will also simplify the lives of university researchers. fourth, the results will be published. when i say results, i mean all results, including negative results. this will increase transparency and ultimately the trust of eu citizens in clinical trials. fifthly, and for the first time at european level, it is the added risk of clinical research and not the absolute risk that will be studied in the context of the formation of clinical trial dossiers. all of this is fundamental. my dear colleagues, simplification of procedures, speeding up of procedures, lower costs will probably mean more protection for patients in europe and more chances for them to benefit from new treatments quickly. for our scientists, this will be a guarantee of participation in trials that matter in the world of scientific research, while our pharmaceutical industry will find a clear advantage.
on behalf of the group . - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank glennis willmott for the work she has done as rapporteur, because it was urgent to propose a number of solutions to avoid, for example, the decline in the number of applications for authorisation of clinical trials, which reached 25% between 2007 and 2011 in europe. we also found that the administrative costs and time limits in europe had become a complete deterrent. unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen a shift of research to emerging countries, where the supervision of clinical trials is more flexible. patient associations, pharmaceutical companies and researchers have criticised the current legislation for imposing too heavy a regulatory framework on administrative formalities. the real improvements in the text are welcome: firstly, the guarantee of transparency in the conduct and results of clinical trials, then the strengthening of the role of ethics committees in the approval of trials, but also the proper information of patients and the increase in protective measures for vulnerable people and finally the protection of personal data. these are improvements which are a credit to the european parliament and the european institutions in relation to these human clinical trials.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the digital single market is an opportunity for europe. we are all involved in the whole operation of removing borders and barriers, boosting our economy and showing every european what europe can do for them. today we have three very good examples of that, and i would like to thank ms del castillo vera, ms ulvskog and ms herczog – they did a great job, together with their rapporteurs, their shadows and all others involved – for their hard work. first, on eid: protecting citizens from insecurity, impersonation and hacking online, with services that are convenient and competitive, trustworthy and transparent – benefits that do not stop at the border. second, cutting the cost of network roll-out: i look forward to the vote in a fortnight. many europeans will join me in thanking you for that. they will get better broadband and fewer roadworks just by cutting the duplication – or something as simple as that. but if there is one thing i have realised, it is that the digital world is an ecosystem. it is no good having one bit without the other. it is no good having secure eid across borders without secure networks across borders; having a fancy new phone if roaming charges make you switch it off; or having fast, fixed broadband without the spectrum for wireless networks or if your operator blocks websites. we cannot accept that. that is why, ten months ago, i stood before many of you and promised new telco proposals, looking at the whole ecosystem and making a difference to the life of every person you represent. digital resources are crucial resources, especially for the 21st century. our citizens depend on them and expect them. let us not wait until they demonstrate in the streets. once we founded a community on coal and steel; now it needs to be founded on connectivity and spectrum, otherwise we are going to fall behind. it is time to liberate the billion devices in europe. that is why we need rules for a connected continent. in six short months we have made tremendous progress on this file. this shows its importance, and i am really grateful to all of you. you have suggested a number of changes – i am aware of that – but it remains in line with our objective. the market is not functioning, and you and i do not accept that. people are being short-changed when they sign a contract, and they are scared when they roam. we do not have the resources to face the future. today, with your vote, you can change all that. let me address the issue of openness and innovation online, and of net neutrality. freedom underpins a rich, vibrant online world. i know many of you have been bombarded on this issue by lobbyists, who probably said that this was a question of saving the internet as opposed to destroying it; freedom as opposed to tyranny; black as opposed to white. i know you are too wise to take those exaggerations at face value. we are not here just to come out with nice slogans. we could kill the internet with words. i want to save it with actions, and i imagine you do too. so let us take up our responsibilities and do the hard work. you know that i stand – and i fight – for freedom, openness and innovation, as we all do. this is easy to say but harder to achieve. so what does it actually mean? innovation means no more blocking or throttling services on the open internet. i am glad we all agree on that, and i agree that we need safeguards for specialised services. they must never be an alternative to the internet, never slow down the internet for everyone else, and never be forced on users against their will. that much is clear. they do not mean – and they will never mean – making people suddenly pay for youtube, but equally we must not block those new specialised services. in my opinion, that would be the opposite of openness. blocking strangles innovation and, despite what you may have been told in the last few days, that is what some of the plenary amendments will do – block specialised services. i realise the pressure you are under to do so, but we must consider the consequences. we cannot tell european businesses that they cannot have the network they need for high-definition video conferences. you do not want to tell citizens that you would not let them enjoy quality iptv. and can we tell hospitals and healthcare workers that they cannot try out new telehealth procedures? all those things depend on enhanced quality of service. i hope that tomorrow’s vote will be a good day for europe and a significant step forward for our connected continent. together, let us make sure the internet remains the platform for incredible innovation and remains an open internet.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, today we are taking a further step towards the completion of the digital single market. the regulation on electronic identification and trust services, by digitising administrative procedures, will simplify them, while giving them the same legal value as paper documents. students, for example, will no longer have to travel to another member state to enrol in a university. companies will save time and reduce their operating costs through electronic signature, electronic stamp and electronic registered mail. as you know, the key to digital development is trust, and i must say that i am very proud that my idea for a european label has been chosen. service providers who meet the safety requirements will be able to display it, and this will be a guarantee for citizens. (the president cut the speaker off)
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, i will continue what i was saying about the need to give citizens confidence in the digital world. we have clearly defined the responsibilities of those who issue means of identification in order to secure the relationship between citizens and their public services. it is a fact that europeans are still too afraid of digital technology. they are full of fear, full of prejudice, but also full of contradictions, and we are here to reassure them. i hope that these texts, this important package we are about to vote on, will help to give them confidence, because if we do not fight in the digital field, if the european union is not capable of doing so, it will be the other continents that will eat us alive and that would be really unfortunate.
the report is a very good report, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the digital single market cannot be the end of the mandate of a commission seeking political results. we had high expectations and were disappointed, but faced with the challenge, we preferred to concentrate our work on what was most important in terms of technological developments, namely investment, deployment, access in all its forms and on all the media for the benefit of the consumer, who will thus be able to have new services at better costs. we welcome the results achieved in record time and i would like to congratulate pilar del castillo on the many compromises reached on the management of the radio spectrum, on the balance between more innovative use of frequencies and the preservation of broadcasting, but also on the end of roaming charges for calls between member states. on this point, we will negotiate with the council with a unanimous position: no more surcharges for calls, sms and data from december 2015. our goal is that citizens no longer turn off their mobile phones abroad for fear of an exorbitant bill. we have added a clause on the reasonable limit of use to ensure a level playing field for operators. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internet is not used for illegal purposes. the socialists and democrats consider the internet to be a public space where everyone should be able to choose without discrimination, restriction or interference the services they want and demand a quality of internet access that is not deteriorated by the privileged treatment of certain paid services, so-called specialised. we are not opposed to the creation of such services, of course, but we want to regulate their definition and use so that they are not provided at the expense of the basic internet. we want to avoid any confusion with internet access services, for which we propose a binding reference to the principle of net neutrality. i reiterate here: while we are working daily to protect online privacy, we cannot accept to negotiate roaming against net neutrality. i hope my colleagues will understand the message we can send to the citizens, who expect us to act responsibly in their favour. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, what should be avoided is the development of specialised services and their prioritisation at the expense of basic access for all citizens, who are entitled to demand it. what we must avoid is confusion in the use of these specialised services, which is a positive thing and we are not opposed to it, but it must be organised sufficiently so that traffic congestion is not a handicap and does not force the citizen to endure the choices that would be imposed on him. that is my answer to mr rübig.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have made many improvements in consumer information, including the obligation to provide a free consumer tracking service for both prepaid and subscription services, as well as clear and comparable information on the actual coverage of mobile networks. in addition, consumers will have to be informed of the average and minimum internet speeds they can expect at home for fixed internet and in their country for mobile internet, data that can be used against providers in the event of non-compliance with these speeds. i also welcome the progress on emergency calls and the 112 number, in particular the definition of common technical standards for call tracing, in particular for gps-enabled smartphones. however, i believe that we can still improve the conditions for termination by our vote in the event of a change in the contract by the operator or if the quality of the service is not achieved. so now i hope that tomorrow we will support a neutral and non-discriminatory internet in order to get a strong and ambitious text for consumers and citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must therefore guarantee a free and open internet that protects the fundamental rights of europeans. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. prioritizing flows is a violation of equal access to information, freedom of expression or, economically, a brake on the emergence of job-creating start-ups. the notion of a specialised service is a blow to net neutrality and is in contradiction with the positions that our parliament has defended throughout this parliamentary term to preserve the principle of neutrality. we, the environmentalists, refuse to sacrifice the freedoms of europeans and their capacity to innovate in these times of economic crisis on the altar of a few very large companies. we will vote tomorrow and when we do we will not forget who we represent: first of all the citizens, the european internet users. and it is to safeguard their interests and freedoms that we will defend the net neutrality amendment.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, honourable members, the period covered by the stockholm programme will draw to a close this year. each of our institutions has reviewed the progress made over the last few years, and our third evaluation will play an important role as we come to look forward to the further development of the area of freedom, security and justice. the stockholm programme has played an important role in guiding and directing the european union’s efforts to implement a wide-ranging, ambitious set of actions in the area of justice and home affairs. i think we have every reason to be proud of what has been achieved. for example, in the area of asylum and migration there has been significant progress on the development of a common european asylum system, which is a particularly complex and sensitive file. we have also made progress in related areas such as legal migration and integration. a good example is the progress reached on the directive regarding the inter-corporate mobility of third-country nationals, as well as the adoption of the seasonal workers directive. this is particularly important, given the link between migration and economic growth. it also lies at the heart of many of the positive dialogues which we have with many of our neighbours. in the margins of the justice and home affairs council in march, for example, we signed a mobility partnership with tunisia. a related issue is the development of frontex, with its enhanced commitment to fundamental rights and the agreement reached on the operations-at-sea issues. the smart border initiative is now moving forward with the objective of reaching agreement by mid-2016. security issues remain of very significant concern to our citizens. our work on serious and organised crime is a highly operational part of our activities which aims at tackling a scourge which undermines our societies. key to action is this area are the european union agencies such as europol and cepol. the stockholm programme has also allowed us to make a major step forward in the area of justice, with increasing attention being given to individual citizens and to respect for their basic rights. our work on civil law is very much in line with this objective. continuing work includes discussions on the solvency proposal and the forthcoming adoption of the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. both are very important files. there have also been significant developments in the area of criminal law. one example is the progress in the area of criminal proceedings or victims’ rights. overall the stockholm programme has acted as a catalyst which has enabled us collectively to deliver on a wide range of legislation and actions which help protect the security and rights of all eu citizens. i would like at this point to thank the honourable members for their commitment to making progress in all these areas and also to thank both the commissioners in charge of this area. we now need to build on the success of the stockholm programme, learn from experience and draw lessons for the future. part of this will require drawing on the mid-term review of the programme, which was requested by the european council. the review was carried out in 2012 under the cyprus presidency, and this review is complementary to the work begun by parliament last summer. we particularly value the full involvement of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the committee on constitutional affairs, and the committee on legal affairs in this process. their input is hugely significant as we collectively assess progress over the last few years, and i would like to thank the three rapporteurs once again. the european council, in accordance with article 68 of the treaty on european union, which requires it to define strategic guidelines in the area of justice and home affairs, has agreed to address this issue at its meeting in june. this work has since been taken up at a series of meetings, including the athens informal ministerial meeting in january. there have also been two full rounds of coreper discussions and a further discussion in the justice and home affairs council in march. in addition to parliament’s valuable work, and also the participation of mr lópez aguilar in the athens informal meeting, there have been two recent commission communications which have helped develop our thinking. there appears to be a significant amount of agreement about where we stand on a wide range of issues. i think we all agree that we need to put more emphasis on the quality, rather than the quantity, of legislation. the stockholm programme has been successful in laying the foundations in many areas. the priority now must be to consolidate and implement the existing framework. closely related to this, we also share similar views on the importance of evaluation, whether this is looking backwards or forwards. evidence-based evaluation is considered to be an increasingly-important tool in assessing related actions which have already been undertaken and also in helping us to set priorities for the future. this requires a greater commitment to the exchange of information between eu institutions and the member states. generating an improvement in mutual trust will also help in the further development of practical cooperation to resolve everyday issues. training in the use of information technology, such as e-justice and rapid data exchange, will be key to enabling this to happen. finally, we all agree on the need to improve the coherence between the external and internal dimension of justice and home affairs policies. this will involve closer cooperation and better complementarity in the use of resources between all those involved, but in particular the european external action service and the member states. it is clear that the future development of the area of freedom, security and justice is not just an abstract exercise. it touches on the interests, values and security of all our citizens. the council, with its particular treaty-based role, is committed to building on the considerable achievements made so far. but delivering results in this area can only ever be a collective endeavour. we therefore continue to hope for your support. thank you for the contribution which you have already made in this area and which is vital for the further development of europe.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs mr[nbsp ]lópez aguilar, mr[nbsp ]berlinguer and mr[nbsp ]casini for their joint efforts in assessing the implementation of the stockholm programme. a great deal was achieved in the justice and home affairs fields. we were building on the new treaty of lisbon and were working together – the european institutions all together – and both commissioner malmström and i would like to use this occasion to express our sincere appreciation to parliament because it has put great efforts into many important files we have been dealing with over the last years. much was achieved but the work is by no means finished and the legislation agreed now needs to be implemented at member state level, and there will certainly be new challenges in front of us in the years to come. it is therefore timely to reflect about what the future will bring and how we should shape the area of freedom, security and justice for the years to come. in this context the european council will adopt its strategy guidelines for this area in june. the commission has already adopted two communications in which we set out our ideas on the political priorities of these policies. i was pleased to see, by the way, that on many issues the commissionʼs assessments converge with yours. in full awareness of the post-lisbon institutional setup which puts this parliament on an equal footing with the council, we orient our policies towards citizens and their day-by-day concerns. we stress the importance of the legally binding eu charter of fundamental rights when eu law is at stake and we are also convinced that mutual trust remains the cornerstone of a common european judicial and law enforcement culture. while looking forward towards the future of eu justice policy we have identified three main challenges: trust, mobility and growth. trust is the bedrock on which eu justice policy is built and trust cannot be done by decree. it needs constant efforts by all participants. the eu has laid the foundations for promotion of this trust but this needs to be further strengthened to ensure citizens, legal practitioners and judges within the eu fully trust judicial decisions irrespective of the member states where they have been taken. mobility: eu citizens and businesses are rightly taking advantage of the free movement rights conferred upon them by the treaty but we all know that challenges remain. we all know that obstacles remain. despite significant progress achieved in this respect, citizens still experience practical and legal difficulties when trying to enjoy their rights and parliament rightly demanded that more needs to be done in this context. growth: eu justice policy should continue to make a contribution to economic recovery and tackling unemployment. structural reforms need to be pursued to ensure that justice systems are capable of delivering swift, reliable and trustworthy justice, thereby supporting the effectiveness of all other eu policies. and i appreciate in this respect the full support of this parliament for the eu justice scoreboard and its specific contribution to the european semester. eu justice policy should focus on consolidating what has already been achieved, codifying eu law and practice and, when necessary and appropriate, complementing the existing framework with new initiatives. consolidating: respect for fundamental rights is a key concern in your resolution. the commission fully shares your concern and agrees that upholding fundamental rights requires the combined efforts of all the institutions and member states. on 11[nbsp ]march the commission presented its new eu framework to strengthen the rule of law. the adoption of this communication on the same day as the eu justice agenda for 2020 shows that respect for the rule of law is an essential and key component of the whole justice policy. it also shows that the commission is determined to play fully its role as guardian of the unionʼs values. in the eu justice agenda for 2020 the commission also underlines the need for better training of legal practitioners. we have to enhance their knowledge of eu law. we have to improve cooperation. training legal practitioners in eu law is of utmost importance to ensure that the law is implemented and applied correctly, to build trust in each otherʼs judicial systems and to enable those systems to work together across borders. we will also have to explore the need for codification of certain parts of existing legislation in the justice area and of the relevant case law of the court of justice. codifying means streamlining existing legislation or practices into one single instrument for more clarity and for more legal certainty. and we all know that justice is a dynamic policy area. we have experienced that in the last month, in the last years. and it should therefore be capable of responding to changing realities and evolving expectations from both citizens and businesses. and in this context new initiatives to complement existing instruments may be envisaged if they are appropriate. the need and the added value of such complementary initiatives will have to be carefully assessed in the light of the diversity of national legal systems and traditions.
member of the commission. - madam president, in home affairs the three guiding principles are to reflect citizens’ concerns and aspirations, to focus on those areas where europe brings added value, and to ensure that solidarity and responsibility-sharing are at the heart of our efforts. we have, as vice-president reding said, accomplished a lot, and now the focus needs to be on implementation. one of the main challenges for the future is the full transposition and coherent implementation of agreed legislation. in this regard i would like to highlight the common european asylum system, for which the legislative package has finally been agreed, thanks to very strong support from the european parliament. implementing in a way that expresses solidarity between all member states and a true sharing of responsibility now needs to be taken in hand as a matter of priority. the effective implementation of the recently-agreed changes to the schengen governance is another key priority. schengen is a core part of the european construction and a fundamental achievement that we need to protect. on visas, our goal must be to facilitate travel opportunities for legitimate travellers and make the schengen area a more attractive destination, while maintaining a high level of security. it is with this in mind that yesterday, together with vice-president tajani, i presented a clear set of concrete proposals, including the proposal of establishing a new touring visa. as europe looks for recovery and growth, well-managed migration can be an asset, reaping the full benefits of skills and qualifications of students, researchers and workers from abroad. during our discussions there has been a clear call for a european migration policy supporting growth and competitiveness. we can see a growing consensus on the need to maximise the benefits. this would imply better identifying the economic sectors and occupations facing recruitment difficulties or skills shortages, promoting the admission of highly-skilled workers to europe, unleashing migrants’ entrepreneurship, and facilitating intra-eu mobility for third-country nationals. at the same time, integration remains a challenge. it is time to strengthen integration efforts and enhance social cohesion. we are ready to strengthen the monitoring and benchmarking of national and local integration policies. preventing and reducing irregular migration is an essential part of a well-managed migration policy. we propose to further consolidate and make more credible our policy on irregular migration and return. voluntary return remains our priority, and we agree that more consideration should be given to reintegration measures and the full application of readmission agreements. much has also been accomplished in the area of international security. as rightly pointed out in your report, the implementation of the internal security strategy and the eu policy cycle on serious and organised crime allowed progress on strategic objectives as well as concrete measures on everything from protecting children to support for trafficked persons, making the online environment more secure and providing tools for civil society to better prevent violent extremism. but challenges remain, and we need to do more. therefore, the european parliament, the member states and the commission should work together to draw up an updated version of the internal security strategy. we need to see where we can step up our efforts to disrupt criminal networks, prevent terrorism, ensure a safer cyberspace, strengthen our security at the borders and increase our resilience to crises and disasters. i agree with you that fighting smuggling and trafficking in human beings is a clear priority. we have to pursue the work started with the strategy on the eradication of trafficking in human beings and develop a post-2016 strategy. at the same time, we need to deepen our work to prevent and prosecute corruption and related financial crimes, and parliament’s support in this context is, of course, welcome. in order to be successful, we need to pay more attention to the external dimension of our policies. the eu will remain confronted with the consequences of instability in many parts of the world, and additional efforts will be needed to avoid further tragedies, such as the ones we have seen in the mediterranean and elsewhere. we need to do more to integrate home affairs issues in overall eu foreign policy, allowing for reinforced dialogue in cooperation with third countries. establishing even more partnerships on mobility would be a concrete way to achieve this. resettlement and relocation of beneficiaries of international protection are concrete and tangible forms of solidarity, and i urge all member states to engage in resettlement. we should also be looking at new instruments, such as joint processing of asylum applications and the pooling of reception places, and in addition we need to consider legal routes to access asylum in the eu, enabling migrants to avoid having to embark on hazardous and often lethal trips. let me conclude. we have, as has been said, achieved a lot together in the framework of the stockholm programme, and we even went further. we will implement what we have agreed and monitor and evaluate our policies on a regular basis so that we can adjust and target future action. the strategic use of eu funding will enable us to better focus on eu priorities. the new institutional arrangement introduced by the lisbon treaty and the key role of the european parliament has been of great help. i note that the european parliament is open to the possibility of creating a new multiannual programme. i think this is not necessary. while a detailed and prescriptive five-year plan might have been needed in the pioneer phase of previous years, we now need to have a strategic approach for the future in order to move towards a fully-functioning european area of justice. the past has shown that we need to respond in a flexible way to new emerging challenges, and a multiannual programme would limit us in an unnecessary way. but we rely on your support to make europe a better place to live, to visit, to learn and to do business in, and we are confident that this will also be reflected by our work together in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs of all the committees that have examined this dossier: juri, libe and afco. in the context of the stockholm programme, we have shown that europe can be close to the concerns of its citizens and that european regulations can have a concrete and positive impact on their daily lives. on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, i would like to stress that the coordination and harmonization of the civil and commercial law of the member states is not a matter of empty words. thanks to the work we have done, european citizens can move more freely and easily within the european union. we have simplified the marriage procedures for mixed couples or those who do not live in their country of origin. we have improved legal certainty for those who divorce or separate in europe and, finally, we have introduced fair rules on succession. thus, contrary to what populist parties claim in this election campaign, the european union is improving the daily lives of its citizens. this is the message we absolutely need to spread as much as possible right now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the text which has been proposed to us, because it clearly highlights the points on which we must focus in the future. i am talking about the fight against discrimination, legal aid and the defence of the mobility of workers, which are all policies which are decisive for the daily lives of european citizens and the future of the european area of security, freedom and justice, without going into details. i regret, however, that the council has chosen to set the next european guidelines for this area for 26 and 27 june. this period will coincide with that of a commission at the end of its term of office and a newly elected european parliament which will not be fully operational. the guidelines we are talking about should be drawn up in the spirit of the lisbon treaty, namely in a joint exercise of the european parliament, the council and the commission, and this is not the case. i am also afraid that the ambitions we have shown will ultimately be reduced to a mere shroud of grief because of the profound differences within the council on a large number of priorities on the one hand and on the subsidiarity arguments already put forward by some states on the other. i therefore believe that in the face of the economic crisis we are going through, we must instead move towards more europe, otherwise we run the risk of seeing this crisis turn into a profound democratic crisis.
mr president, i do not have a voting card and i cannot vote because the office that distributes the voting cards is closed at the moment and there is no one to distribute the cards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. - mr president, i am speaking on the report on transport agencies, which play a key role in ensuring safety and are one of the pillars of the internal market, since they contribute to the interoperability of transport systems in europe and thus to the better movement of goods and people. i am of course talking about the maritime safety agency, the european railway agency, the aviation safety agency and, finally, the sesar project which is one of the pillars of the single european sky. all of them, without exception, used their budget for the year 2012 effectively. the committee on transport has therefore given them a discharge. as rapporteur for the committee on transport, i would point out that all these agencies have seen their powers expand since their creation, with a need for staff and equipment that is becoming more and more acute. i would therefore draw the attention of the european commission and my colleagues, but also of the member states, to the overall budget we allocate to these agencies: it is imperative that they be given the resources to fulfil the tasks we entrust them with. it is a question of security.
in writing. i voted personally against the report by my colleague and friend boguslaw sonik, which proposes to postpone the discharge to the european council and the council and, consequently, not to close the accounts. the report of the european court of auditors on the management and accounts of the two institutions concerned makes no comments or reservations. the european parliament therefore has no independent discretion to take the position of postponing the discharge. that said, i cannot explain why the administration of these two institutions persists in not giving all the information and why their respective elected presidencies do not give clear orders to their administration to give the information to the european parliament.
in writing. environmental protection and economic competitiveness are by no means two opposing objectives. however, if environmental standards imposed on european companies are too high, they will distort competition with companies from the rest of the world. the potential for competitiveness of european firms will then be damaged. the same principle applies to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions for aircraft. we must temporarily exclude intercontinental flights from the scope of the european system for the trading of greenhouse gas emission allowances. temporarily until 2016 when the next assembly of the international civil aviation organization will take place. at that time, we will come to an agreement on intercontinental flights. we do not want a europe marginalized in the face of a powerful international community. in addition, the european aviation sector would be severely threatened by such a measure. the european union must remain competitive in the face of increasingly intense competition from the rest of the world. the excessive objectives which the greens and the socialists often propose to us are guided by ideology. we must find the right balance between environmental protection and economic competitiveness.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, as you yourself have pointed out, this is the last solemn appearance before this house during this term of office, and it is naturally tempting to draw up an outline of the balance sheet of the european union's five years of foreign policy. it must be recognized - and this is largely independent of you - that the same complaint too often comes from our fellow citizens. in the face of the crises around us, the same criticism: where is europe? what is europe doing? in syria, libya, mali, central african republic, ukraine, the same ungrateful and often unfair criticism, i'm happy to give you that. he always comes back. there are also successes. you have underlined them and they are unfortunately too little known. europe remains the largest provider of official development assistance and the largest provider of humanitarian aid. europe has a role to play and you have a fundamental role to play in the reconciliation between serbia and kosovo. europe is conducting interesting and constructive negotiations with iran. europe also played a much lesser known role in opening up the burmese regime. these are successes that are yours and unfortunately too little known. in any case, despite the failures and successes, there will still be a major task, which will have to be rebuilt, namely to give coherence to the european union's external action. institutional coherence [nbsp] and you have a key role to play and operational coherence on the ground. this brings us, of course, to the subject of this report: the global approach. how can we ensure that this global approach, which is a magic formula, is not just a magic formula? a concept that's a little bit catch-all, a little bit catch-all? how can we ensure that this global approach is not just beautiful rhetoric, disconnected from the often more complex and unfortunately often more fragmented realities of our external action? the global approach, everybody's advocating it these days. all the organisations want to take the global approach to dealing with challenges and crises: the un, nato, the european union. for the european union this is obvious, because it is the only organisation with such a wide range of instruments to carry out this policy: humanitarian, development, trade, civilian security policy missions, military missions. we have all the instruments at our disposal, so this ambition is legitimate. but the global approach is too often seen in retrospect rather than constructed a priori. i want to take as an example what is happening in the horn of africa, which is an example that you often bring up. as far as the horn of africa is concerned, all the boxes are ticked: we are carrying out military operations there, we are carrying out civilian missions there, we are providing development and humanitarian aid there. so we're on every floor. we also have a good special envoy. it's all there, all the boxes are ticked. but is this all a strategy? i'm not so sure. the strategy is on paper. is it really effective in the field, in one direction? all this is still largely to be proved. for the global approach to work, three things are needed: first, an upstream strategy, defined with all stakeholders. and even when we do, strategy is not always enough. we had it for the sahel in 2011, but its implementation has been much more complicated and the results have been very incomplete, to say the least. secondly, we need coordination, a lot of coordination. on this point, your role is central because you have a triple role: high representative, president of the foreign affairs council and vice-president of the commission. it is well known that it is often within the commission that everyone is very jealous of the prerogatives, autonomy and budgets of others. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. finally, priorities must be set because the global approach must not be a global geographical approach. the european union cannot do everything everywhere with the same intensity and the same efficiency. these are the conditions under which you must carry out this mandate, which we are well aware is extremely complicated. i would like to pay tribute to your work, because, as i said in the introduction, i find that criticism is all too often ungrateful. critics forget that in matters of foreign policy, diplomacy and military action, the essential prerogative remains with the member states.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam high representative, i think that the debate that has just taken place has illustrated two things. the first is that everyone in this house recognises the virtue of the global approach and the fact that the european union is perfectly equipped to lead this global approach, perhaps better than anyone else on the international stage. the second observation is that, despite all this, it is clear how difficult it is to articulate and coordinate properly the different components of this overall approach: people who deal with development find that we never do enough for development, people who deal with humanitarianism find that we should not subordinate humanitarianism to politics, people who want more security find that we do not do enough. let me just say a few words about that. i started my career 20 years ago in a city called sarajevo, which was under siege, which was at war. we were living on humanitarian aid at the time in sarajevo. let me tell you that humanitarianism, far too often, is a bittersweet potion when it substitutes for foreign policy. i think we must not lose sight of that. let me also say to you, madam high representative, that your task is a bit of an impossible task, caught between two temptations that are always present: on the one hand, the sin of pride of the member states, which continue to believe that they alone can face all the challenges that surround us; on the other hand, the sin of idealism of those who think that very soon we will be able to arrive at a single policy for twenty-eight. it's very complicated to navigate between these two temptations. i believe it was your honor... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i hesitated to speak, but since the president is not taking my comments on the violation of the treaty by our assembly into account - since we regularly violate article 15 of the treaty on european union - and since the european council met for the last time before the end of the mandate, i would like to ask you again to take my comments into account. on 20 and 21 march the european council met. there has been no report to the european parliament by the president of the european council, as required by article[nbsp ]15 of the treaty. there was also this conference of presidents, which in my view is illegal, and to which the president of the european council did not even appear, although he was invited. this situation is in addition to the european council in december, when nothing happened, not even the conference of presidents. we were told a written report; after verification by my assistants and a very senior official, it turns out there never was. we are faced with continuing violations of the treaty and i wonder whether the president of parliament, who does not respect the law, is not disqualified from being a candidate for the presidency of the european commission, whose job it is to apply and enforce the law. i am extremely disappointed, madam president.
in writing. it seemed necessary to take stock of the allocation of the european social fund to older workers. in france, as in europe, older people are still far too exposed to precariousness, particularly in the labour market. the report therefore states that european and national efforts must be stepped up.
in writing. it is imperative that the european social fund for older workers is used effectively, particularly in these periods of high unemployment. it is therefore important to adopt reliable indicators to assess the effectiveness of the expenditure of this fund. i recognise that member states should adopt a clear definition of the concept of elderly workers and identify targeted actions for this expenditure. such measures will ensure a more efficient use of the european social fund, which will make it possible to encourage the employability of older workers, for example through lifelong learning programmes.
in writing. the aim here is to assess the esf's action in favour of older workers. the report criticises the weak capacity to assess the effectiveness of the fund. he defines the elderly worker as "a person of working age between 55 and 64 years" and then wonders why this age range actually varies from country to country... what is the name of the people in france who have to wait 67 years to retire? but these formal criticisms do not hide the vacuity of the report's substance. there is no question of the policies that lead to high unemployment among the elderly, or the fact that they are forced to work for so long. the commission is constantly encouraging the reduction of the retirement age, which is exacerbating the problem of unemployment among older workers. instead of evaluating the meagre aid provided, it would be better to change policy. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this special report on the effectiveness of european social fund spending on older workers. over the period 2007-2013, its expenditure will amount to over €75 billion, or 8% of the eu budget. the european court of auditors verified, for one disadvantaged group, older workers, that the member states and the commission had developed and implemented the necessary tools to assess the effectiveness of esf actions for this group. weaknesses were found both in the design of operational programmes and in monitoring and evaluation systems. the court makes recommendations to improve the monitoring and evaluation of european social fund expenditure for specific target groups.
in writing. mario borghezio is a member of the italian far-right northern league party. in a radio show, this admirer of brasillach made racist remarks against roma, which are punishable by the italian penal code. the rapkay report proposes to lift mr borghezio's parliamentary immunity so that he can be tried in his own state for these remarks. in order not to impede the italian judiciary in its action and also in order to ensure that racist remarks made throughout europe are punished with the utmost severity, i am voting in favour of the waiver of mr borghezio's immunity and therefore in favour of the rapkay report.
in writing. mr borghezio has requested the defence of his parliamentary immunity in a case pending before an italian court; these criminal charges were brought against him following statements about roma made during a radio interview on 8 april 2013. the member has not acted in the exercise of his duties, and i have therefore supported this report so that this immunity can be lifted and the italian judiciary can continue its investigations.
in writing. sergei magnitsky is a russian lawyer, accused of defrauding on behalf of bill browder, a businessman who owns hermitage capital management, the largest foreign investment fund in russia. magnitsky died under unclear circumstances just days before the one-year deadline for his detention without trial. in july 2011, the u.s. state department banned from entering the united states some 60 russian officials involved in the case. today the european union is following the united states in demanding visa restrictions on these same people. but the proposal goes further by calling for a "strong policy towards russia" "with the support of all member states". while the demand for a "credible, complete and independent investigation into the death of sergei magnitsky" is legitimate, this case must not be used as a pretext for further geopolitical provocations against russia. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls on the council to draw up a common union-wide list of officials responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky, the judicial cover-up and the ongoing harassment of sergei magnitsky's mother and widow. parliament also called for the persons concerned by the 2012 magnitsky act to be included on an eu-wide visa ban list and for any financial assets they may hold in the eu to be seized.
in writing. this very general text is a recommendation from parliament to the council for the 69th[nbsp]session of the united nations general assembly. it therefore lists the human rights that must be respected, the torture that must be eradicated, the death penalty that must be abolished... with as always indignation of variable geometry: the only country mentioned in this chapter is iran. why not mention saudi arabia, which has just passed a law that punishes as terrorists those who advocate atheism? while the emphasis is on the un peacekeeping role, an increased role for the european external action service is also proposed. in any event, under rule 97 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, this text is deemed to have been adopted without the members' opinion having been sought. otherwise i would have abstained from voting to avoid endorsing this hypocrisy.
in writing. the european union and its member states are the main financial contributors to the un system. this partnership between the union and the united nations (un) is fundamental to the maintenance of the union's role as a global actor and to the work of the united nations. i have supported this report which makes recommendations to the council for the opening of the 69th session of the united nations general assembly in september. among these recommendations, it is important to distinguish the promotion of the integration of human rights and fundamental freedoms into all aspects of the work of the united nations, support for peacekeeping and peacekeeping missions and ensuring the coherence and effectiveness of the union as a global actor.
in writing. radio and television broadcasting have a proven track record in the dissemination of information within the union. this text shows that it is time to make these tools an instrument for promoting the rule of law and the values attached to it (respect for democracy, human rights, freedom and independence of the press, etc.) and to inform the public about the actions carried out within the framework of the common foreign and security policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation because it sets out a genuine strategy for the broadcasting of european media (euronews for example) in the context of the union's external relations. it responds to the concern to promote the democratic values of the european union, while the situation in ukraine shows us that these values still need to be consolidated on our continent. the use of radio and television broadcasting plays an essential role in informing the public about the measures taken and the objectives pursued by european diplomacy. the report will thus help to promote a better understanding of the union's foreign policy by its citizens and encourage debate on europe, including in third countries.
in writing. the eu is also funding its own channel, euronews, supposedly to strengthen its "editorial independence" and ensure the "diversity" of opinions (up to 5 billion euros a year anyway, no budget cuts here), a diversity that is never extended to me. but the point here is to encourage european radio and television to become propaganda tools for the union's policy, and particularly its foreign policy. to "orient the debate" to allow "a more uniform understanding of foreign policy among european citizens". and in the present context it is clear which way the union intends to go, the only example given, belarus, invites others. in any event, under rule 97 of parliament's rules of procedure, this text is deemed to have been adopted without parliament's opinion being sought. otherwise i would have voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation which calls on the european council and the european external action service to develop a coherent and comprehensive strategy for european media broadcasting in the context of the union's external relations, thereby promoting freedom of expression and media pluralism and strengthening democracy and human rights in third countries.
in writing. with this text, we are taking action on vehicle noise levels by lowering the limit values for vehicle-related noise emissions in their diversity. the report also seeks to set a minimum noise level. the stated goal is to reduce the number of people with disabilities by 25%. i am very pleased with this text, the provisions of which simply help to improve the tranquility of our fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because the objective of protecting health and the environment must be as compatible as possible with safeguarding the internal market. i also welcome the proposal to ensure road and work safety by introducing minimum noise requirements for electric and hybrid electric vehicles.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which should make it possible to combat noise pollution from motor vehicles more effectively, while preserving the competitiveness of our automotive industry. i have committed myself to ensuring that the industry, which employs almost 13 million people in europe, is not subjected to unrealistic and unworkable standards at a time when it is being hit hard by the economic crisis. the final compromise, which favours a pragmatic approach, includes a gradual reduction in the maximum permissible sound level of motor vehicles, better information for consumers when buying, and the mandatory inclusion of avas, which can alert visually impaired pedestrians, in all electric vehicles.
in writing. on wednesday 2 april, the european parliament voted in favour of regulations to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. these new rules will have an impact on health and the environment, as more than half of the urban population in europe is exposed to noise levels of more than 55 decibels due to road traffic. we therefore plan to reduce engine noise by 4 decibels for small and medium-sized vehicles and by 3 decibels for larger vehicles. we have created sufficiently flexible rules for buses, lorries and sports cars to protect european industry while ensuring that these measures are effective. a label will be created for the least noisy vehicles to encourage consumers to favour them. i voted in favour of this text because i believe it will make vehicles more environmentally friendly and encourage innovation in the automotive sector.
in writing. the proposal aims to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. noise from road traffic has an undeniable effect on health and quality of life. some of the proposed measures are in the right direction: imposing a maximum noise level on manufacturers, or, on the contrary, providing a minimum noise level for electric vehicles. but in the end the compromise at second reading is very disappointing. even though the surface of the road is a factor in noise emission, the commission refused to classify road pavements for noise control. the compromise is sometimes even less ambitious than the commission's proposal, particularly as regards the most powerful heavy trucks or the limits on sound which the commission advocates.
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion in the tran committee, i voted in favour of this regulation which aims to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles such as cars, vans and lorries. according to who, traffic noise could cost 1 million years of healthy life in western europe every year. 1.8[nbsp]% of heart attacks in european countries are attributed to a traffic noise level of over 60[nbsp]db. noise from rail and road transport is therefore thought to be responsible for 50 000 fatal heart attacks and 200 000 cases of cardiovascular disease each year in europe. it was therefore more than urgent to revise this european legislation dating back to 1996.
in writing. reducing vehicle noise is important to protect public health and the environment in the european union. our citizens must be able to live in the best possible conditions. of course, the necessary adaptation time for the automobile industry must also be taken into account. i am therefore very pleased to have voted in favour of this report which perfectly highlights both of these points of view. on the one hand, the health of our citizens remains a priority, but on the other hand, we must be realistic and not set unrealistic targets which could seriously damage the european economy. this is a mistake which the greens and the socialists tend to make. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. in these times of crisis, we must maintain our ideals and values while being pragmatic.
in writing. the european parliament adopted my report on computerised databases by 395 votes to 216, with 13 abstentions. this is a technical text which allows account to be taken of the emergence of new technologies, in particular the electronic identification of bovine animals. this report ensures interoperability between the member states' computer systems. i am particularly pleased with the result of the call for a vote in favour.
in writing. this amendment to the current legislation is to take account of the development of new technologies in the field of electronic identification of bovine animals. the computerised databases containing information on bovine animals located in the territories of those member states should take account of that new information. it is therefore quite appropriate to adapt this european legislation which makes it possible to improve these databases by extending their fields of information in such a way as to guarantee efficient identification of bovine animals and thus better health and food safety.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because i believe that the exchange of information on traceability of bovine and porcine animals should be a priority for the european union. this new directive only increases transparency in health matters, and i welcome that.
in writing. this text complements the proposal on the electronic identification of bovine animals by the establishment of a computerised database. the question of labelling cloned animals has not been settled, so i cannot support it. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 as regards the electronic identification of bovine animals and repealing its provisions on the optional labelling of beef and veal requires council directive 64/432/eec to be amended accordingly as regards the computerised databases which form part of the surveillance networks in the member states. to date, the elements of the computerised databases established in directive 64/432/eec do not include any reference to electronic means of identification. in the interests of consistency of union legislation, this regulation amends council directive 64/432/eec as regards computerised databases forming part of the surveillance networks in the member states.
in writing. international trade is a real opportunity for global development. however, it is imperative that the community should respect fair rules so that everyone can be a partner and not a competitor who too often practices unfair dumping.
in writing. i voted in favour of the rinaldi report on the application and enforcement of international trade rules. this regulation gives the european union the means to enforce its trade rights vis-à-vis third countries. it enables the commission to act quickly and effectively in cases of violations of international trade rules by using trade defence instruments. this is a real step towards the principle of reciprocity in trade.
in writing. the european union needs to be provided with effective instruments to enforce its rights under international trade agreements. that is why i support such a text which aims to make the european union a credible actor on the international scene, capable of protecting its interests. the creation of a common legislative framework setting out the rules and procedures to prevent third countries from breaching international trade rules is therefore appropriate. it is therefore important to promote systematic recourse to the most effective dispute resolution mechanisms. the european union cannot allow its rights to be flouted and competitiveness in europe to be penalized.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation which aims to create a common legislative framework to enforce the union's rights under international trade agreements. i welcome this agreement which largely safeguards the interests of the union in that it sets up instruments to respond to violations by third countries of international trade rules which affect the interests of member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr niccolo rinaldi, on the application and enforcement of international trade rules. the aim of this text is to establish rules governing how the union would enforce and defend its rights in the event of unfair or illegal trade measures taken in third countries. the eu previously lacked a single legal framework to defend its interests in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner, which did not provide an incentive for offending countries to stop their behaviour. the report was adopted by 596 votes in favour, 17 against and 16 abstentions. i am very pleased with this result.
in writing. the proposal aims to provide the european union with a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. the regulation lays down rules and procedures to guarantee the union's rights to suspend or withdraw concessions in international trade agreements. does the european union want to retaliate against certain aggressive unilateral measures taken by its trading partners? unfortunately, the policy has its limits: it must not have "the slightest protectionist purpose". moreover, the many references to the wto do imply the promotion of free trade. i'm not going to. i do not want to deny europe some of the few new means of protection it has at its disposal, but i do not approve of the overall free trade framework in which this report is based.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which proposes the creation of a common legislative framework to enforce the union's rights under international trade agreements, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. to that end, it lays down rules and procedures to ensure the effective exercise of the union's rights to suspend or withdraw concessions or other obligations under international trade agreements.
in writing. the european union has finally adopted a regulation allowing it to act as a last resort when a third country does not respect international trade rules. if one of our trading partners does not respect these rules, it is only natural that the union may defend itself by temporarily taking defensive retaliatory measures against that country when all diplomatic means of resolving disputes have been exhausted. the security of european businesses and the stability of the union's economy as a whole are at stake. i am glad that i voted for this report, for which i was the fictitious rapporteur for the epp group. the european union is increasingly opening up its market to third countries, so it is necessary to ensure that economic operators trading with the union play by the rules of the art. we must remain cautious in the face of unfair competition from third countries. the regulation will enable the union to benefit from the attractions of trade with the rest of the world while protecting its businesses.
in writing. in a move to support the development of bangladesh, this resolution sets out the conditions for marketing in europe (cultivation, packaging, etc.). rice accounts for a large proportion of the european diet.
in writing. with this text we decide to frame the respective institutional prerogatives of the commission and parliament concerning the preferential import regime for rice originating in bangladesh. this is a necessary adjustment to allow for a better reliability of the system. more generally, the union is showing its concern to adopt a rigorous approach in its action for sustainable economic development and acceptable working conditions in a country where rice cultivation is a key activity.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to adapt the regulation on rice imports to the lisbon treaty by giving new powers to the commission (delegated and implementing acts). the regulation provides for exemption from import duties for bangladesh in accordance with wto rules on preferential tariffs for developing countries (dcs). however, the rapporteur, my colleague mr paul murphy, pays particular attention to the 'overall objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions in bangladesh and the eradication of poverty in that country'. it adds a reference to the gsp+ ('special incentive scheme') which grants additional trade preferences to developing countries which have signed a number of international social and environmental conventions, introducing into eu trade law the idea of a possible hierarchy of standards. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations.
in writing. this report concerns a proposal for a regulation on rice imports from bangladesh. the preferential import conditions (as provided for by the wto for the least developed countries) granted to rice from bangladesh consist of a reduction in import duties within certain quantities. the commission proposal aims to align council regulation (eec) no 3491/90 on the import of rice from bangladesh with the post-lisbon arrangements for implementing the acts provided for in articles 290 and 291 of the treaty. the commission therefore proposes, for the sake of clarity, to replace regulation no 3491/90 by the new regulation, a move which the rapporteur approves. i welcome the fact that the rapporteur has finally succeeded in removing the mention that bangladesh must levy an export tax. while i am not opposed to this tax as such, i do not think it is the european union's responsibility to impose it. bangladesh is a sovereign country and should be free to decide whether or not to introduce such a tax. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to apply to council regulation (eec) no 3491/90 on imports of rice originating in bangladesh the distinction introduced by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union between the delegated and the implementing powers of the commission. we wanted this regulation to take account of the right of small farmers and rural workers to a decent income and to a safe and healthy working environment. respect for this right was fundamental to the achievement of the general objectives of trade preferences for developing countries and in particular for the least developed countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on rice imports from bangladesh. since 2009, all ldcs have had access to the european market without quotas or import duties for a certain quantity of rice. this report, presented by my irish colleague and colleague from the gue/ngl group, paul murphy, has several positive aspects. it is based on the principles of solidarity farming: 'this regulation is based on the recognition of the right of small farmers to a decent income and to a safe and healthy working environment ...'. it recalls the ilo rules to be respected, 'in particular the conventions on forced labour, freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, equal pay and the abolition of forced labour'. finally, although the commission's initial objective was to align the regulation with the lisbon treaty, the now amended regulation pays particular attention to the 'overall objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions in bangladesh and poverty eradication in bangladesh'.
in writing. this resolution takes up the provisions of a report discussed in october 2013, thus aiming at harmonisation of medical devices in europe.
in writing. this review of european legislation on medical devices in europe aims to ensure strong quality and safety standards that protect european citizens. the pip breast implant scandal has highlighted the urgency of strengthening health security measures to ensure maximum protection for citizens who use these devices. i am therefore in favour of extending the scope of this legislation to include devices with aesthetic purposes. the creation of a committee for the evaluation of medical devices (cedm) is also an interesting proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to establish a strong, transparent and sustainable regulatory framework that is conducive to innovation and competitiveness in the medical device industry. i am also pleased that a clear definition of medical devices has been established. the new alignment of the definition with european and international practice will ensure a better approach to medical devices.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which aims to strengthen the safety of medical devices. the recent public health scandals involving defective breast implants and toxic hip prostheses illustrate the need to strengthen the safety controls of medical devices within the european union. the new eu regulation will strengthen the accreditation criteria for notified bodies and stricter controls will take place with random and unannounced audits in factories to ensure the safety of users of medical devices. however, parliament will have to continue its work to improve certain provisions when it reviews the regulation at second reading. i regret that in the text voted by parliament today the possibility for member states to prohibit the reprocessing of single-use medical devices such as syringes or catheters on grounds of health safety has been removed. inadequate cleaning, disinfection and sterilisation can lead to contamination or infection. i believe that the single-use medical device provides greater safety than sterilized and reconditioned equipment.
in writing. as the various pip breast prosthesis scandals have shown us, we need to strengthen health security and provide a coherent framework that supports innovation in the european medical device sector. the result adopted was a compromise, and it did not allow the most high-risk medical devices to be subject to systematic, prior and independent assessment by means of a collegial expertise on cases currently assessed unilaterally by a certified body. but this is a welcome result in view of the attempts by the conservatives and liberals to weaken the text even further. i am also in favour of maintaining the ban on reprocessing of single-use medical devices, as provided for in the text, because patient safety must not in any way come at the expense of restrictive budgetary policies practised by certain hospitals.
in writing. i abstained on the report by my colleague dagmar roth-behrendt on medical devices. while the text does make some progress in the post-market monitoring of medical devices, which is essential to prevent a new fraud like that of pip from happening again, i regret that prior marketing authorization has been adopted for certain categories of medical devices. this is a costly and time-consuming device that will burden professionals and slow down innovation, since, unlike a drug, the life cycle of a medical device is short and improvements are regular. under this system, any improvement, even a minor one, will have to wait for prior authorization before it can be placed on the market. i could not, however, bring myself to vote against the progress of this report, which is essential to improving patient safety. the report was adopted by 547 votes to 19, with 63 abstentions.
in writing. medical devices are instruments or devices which are intended to alleviate a disease or compensate for a disability without pharmacological means. they represent about half a million different products, from adhesive bandages to x-ray equipment. the 25 000 european medical technology companies employ more than half a million people and filed more than 10 000 patent applications in 2012. in response to the proliferation of incidents, such as the pip prosthesis scandal, the european parliament has revised existing legislation. i voted in favour of this text because it improves information and health protection for patients, as well as the traceability of medical devices, without hampering innovation. we have extended the legislation to include cosmetic devices (implants, lenses for aesthetic purposes). innovative risk devices or devices which have caused incidents in the past will have to be authorised by independent european experts before being placed on the market. meps who will sit after the renewal of the european parliament next july will have to negotiate with the council in order to adopt a final version of the text and implement it in all the member states of the european union.
in writing. the regulation has the merit of specifying the standards governing medical devices. the provisions against fraud have been tightened. member states are invited to provide for and enforce severe penalties. 'aesthetic devices' are added to the scope of the regulation. the report prohibits misleading statements and calls for the principle of free and informed consent to be respected. again, the report does not address the crucial question of the social and ecological conditions under which these medical devices are produced. in the absence of such social harmonisation, the free movement of medical devices encourages the relocation of manufacturers. france is largely concerned: it already imports 55[nbsp ]% of the medical devices it consumes. yet its productive capacity continues to decline, despite its productive and intellectual capacities. i vote for these legislative advances. but i deplore a further step in the liberalization of the market at the expense of workers and the objective of relocating production.
in writing. this report deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices. i have decided to support this report because it presents important improvements in terms of control and certification of medical devices. it also proposes the creation of special bodies authorised to strengthen the control of medical devices presenting a high potential level of risk to patients.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which aims to ensure a high level of protection of human health and safety, to guarantee the proper functioning of the internal market and to provide a coherent regulatory framework capable of supporting innovation and competition in the european medical devices sector.
in writing. this legislative resolution, which takes up the work discussed in october 2013, aims at harmonising in vitro diagnostic medical devices in europe.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to strengthen the existing legislation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices used for the detection and prevention of diseases, diagnosis, monitoring of prescribed treatments and evaluation of medical interventions. these devices include self-diagnostics for blood glucose measurement, hiv testing and dna testing. given the sensitivity of their use, it is our duty as members of the european parliament to ensure maximum security for these devices in order to better protect citizens in the internal market. it is vital to ensure their reliability and quality. however, i recognize that this change in legislation must be made in a proportionate way so as not to impose excessive burdens on smes, which make up a large part of this sector.
in writing. i also voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to improve the safety of in vitro diagnostic medical devices intended for diagnostic use outside the human body, i.e. in a laboratory or near the patient, for example at his bedside. they cover a very wide range of tests, such as self-diagnostics for blood sugar measurement, hiv tests and dna tests. the rights and responsibilities of manufacturers, importers and distributors have been clarified, including with regard to diagnostic services and online sales. again, it will be necessary to ensure that the second reading review preserves these patient safety imperatives.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague peter liese on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. the text was voted on in october 2013, but the final vote was postponed so that the rapporteur could negotiate with the council and obtain an agreement which would then have been validated by parliament. the council was unable to reach agreement among its members on its own version of the text, and negotiations were not able to begin. parliament therefore had to decide on its own version of the text so that it could be forwarded to the next parliament and be agreed at second reading. the report was adopted by 492 votes to 21, with 117 abstentions. i am very pleased with this result.
in writing. in vitro medical devices are medical devices intended for diagnostic use outside the human body, i.e. in a laboratory or in the vicinity of the patient. they cover a very wide range of tests, such as self-diagnostics for blood sugar measurement, hiv testing and dna testing. the report proposes a number of improvements. a new risk classification system is proposed. the market surveillance and vigilance system will be strengthened. the unannounced inspections of enterprises will be mandatory. the report also allows the establishment of a network of european reference laboratories. the report ignores the crucial question of the social and ecological conditions under which these medical devices are produced. in the absence of such social harmonisation, the free movement of medical devices increases the risks of relocation of manufacturers. france is heavily exposed to this since it already imports 55% of the medical devices consumed. however, its production capacity continues to decline, as shown by the closure of the sodimedical plant. i vote for, to support the normative advances in product regulation. but i deplore a further step in the liberalisation of the goods market to the detriment of workers and the aim of relocating production as close as possible to their consumption.
in writing. in vitro diagnostic medical devices (ivds) are devices used outside the human body, in a laboratory or in the vicinity of the patient. they can be used to perform a multitude of tests, such as hiv tests and dna tests for example. the report proposes to improve the regulations governing the marketing of these devices, as the error rates can vary greatly from one device to another, which can lead to misdiagnosis and therefore to poor treatment. the report also provides an essential ethical dimension to clinical trials. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which aims to establish a robust, transparent and sustainable regulatory framework that is conducive to innovation and competitiveness in the in vitro medical device industry and that allows quick and cost-effective market access for innovative devices for the benefit of patients and healthcare professionals.
in writing. the resolution aimed to present the strengths of the european environmental economic accounts in order to combat global warming and protect europe's fauna and flora.
in writing. the effectiveness of national economic policies must be assessed by taking environmental indicators into account. the impact on the environment affects the well-being of the population. it is therefore necessary to measure effectively the environmental progress made by each country. in order to obtain the most reliable and comprehensive indicators possible, it is therefore logical to extend the european environmental economic accounts to new modules such as environmental protection expenditure. however, strengthening these indicators does not mean creating new additional administrative burdens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament regulation which relates to setting priorities for the union in the field of green growth and resource efficiency by providing important information. the environmental goods and services sector will therefore be at the heart of this new regulation, which i welcome.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to amend the regulation on european environmental economic accounts adopted in 2011. the aim of this regulation is to provide additional indicators to measure the impact of the economy on the environment and also the impact of environmental policies on the economy. in particular, new economic accounts are to be added: the environmental protection expenditure account, the 'environmental goods and services sectors' covering products and services developed for the purpose of environmental protection and the physical energy flow accounts. new indicators of development, well-being and sustainability are needed to better understand the impact of human activities on the environment and on people. it is a pity that the european accounts are not a real alternative to gdp, which is an obsolete statistic. i vote for it.
in writing. in april 2010, the european commission first proposed a regulation on european environmental economic accounts, which came into force in july 2011. it introduced three modules: air emission accounts, environmental taxes and material flow accounts. these three new modules were then only considered as a first step towards the establishment of a sound environmental accounting instrument. in line with this trend, this report introduces three new accounts: the environmental protection expenditure accounts, the sum of all environmental goods and services produced and the energy flow accounts. most of these statistical data are already available but need to be adjusted to ensure a sound scientific approach and more reliable comparability at european and international level. more reliable statistics and accounts will help to develop a more effective environmental and energy policy. i therefore support this approach and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of regulation (eu) no 691/2011 on european environmental economic accounts, which establishes a common framework for the collection, preparation, transmission and evaluation of european environmental economic accounts in a modular form. at this stage, the modules to be implemented from 2013 are air emissions, environmental taxes and flow and material accounts. in accordance with article 10 of the regulation, the commission proposes to add 3[nbsp ]new modules for the environmental protection expenditure accounts, energy flow accounts and eco-activity accounts.
in writing. this resolution sets out the programmes to be implemented in 2015 as part of the european year of development. it also serves as a reminder that the european union is the main provider of funds in the framework of development aid policies.
in writing. while 44[nbsp ]% of european citizens say they do not know where development aid for their country goes, the establishment of a european year of development in 2015 would make the union's development aid to third countries more transparent. i am particularly sensitive to public information on european achievements in combating all forms of gender discrimination against women and girls.
in writing. the european parliament has just adopted a new information tool on european development policy entitled: 2015 the european year of development. the motto is "our world, our dignity, our future". i voted in favour of this legislative proposal. it is a 'communication tool' to raise public awareness of the union's work in developing countries, while highlighting the role of the european union in international development. the aim is to increase awareness and stimulate debate on the impact of eu decisions on global development and on people in developing countries, in order to improve understanding of the coherence of development policies. while the eu is the world's leading provider of development aid, its citizens often lack information about development cooperation. what is the added value of development policies at european level? why is it necessary? the need for an ambitious, coherent, transparent and effective policy of development and international solidarity must be clearly reaffirmed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr charles goerens, on the european year of development. the report proposes to designate 2015 as the european year of development and stresses the importance of raising awareness of the union's work in developing countries. the european union is the world's largest provider of official development assistance. however, despite this strong commitment, eu citizens often lack information on development cooperation and the added value of policies at eu level. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the european parliament has decided that 2015 will be the 'european year of development'. citizens often lack information about the european union's action and an october 2012 eurobarometer survey showed that 53% of respondents were unaware of the european union's action in third countries. the european year will therefore aim to inform european citizens about the european union's development cooperation and to measure the impact of its action as the world's leading donor. i voted in favour of this text because i consider that development aid to third countries is an essential instrument for ensuring security and prosperity at world level and for guaranteeing european influence at international level.
in writing. the european year is intended to "encourage direct participation of european citizens" in debates on a different theme each year and to "provoke critical thinking". in fact, it is a matter of promoting the union's policies without reservation. the report states that it aims to "promote public acceptance" of the "positive effects of development programmes on donor countries". i am still looking for the positive effects of economic partnership agreements (epas) which are mainly aimed at plundering the wealth of the countries concerned. or those arising from loans conditional on compliance with the neoliberal measures of the imf, which the union is imposing on tunisia at this very moment, among others. the inclusion of ngos and their funding in this whole coming awareness campaign is a good thing but i cannot vote for a text whose aim is to promote such a policy. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision which proposes to make 2015 the 'european year of development'. this text sets out the range of measures that can be organised and supported under the year at european, national, regional and local level: communication campaigns to disseminate key messages to the general public, conferences, events and initiatives involving all relevant stakeholders, and concrete initiatives in the member states to promote the objectives of the european year.
in writing. this resolution reaffirms that space policy is a commitment of the european union, in particular as the main actor in scientific missions.
in writing. i support such a text which aims to set up a programme to support space surveillance and the tracking of objects in orbit for the period 2014-2020. space facilities are increasingly at risk of collision with space debris. it is therefore essential to protect these infrastructures sent into orbit, which contribute to the security of european citizens and the competitiveness of the european union. this is particularly the case for the galileo and copernicus satellites.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision, the main objective of which is to establish a european service to prevent collisions between spacecraft or between spacecraft and space debris. the new legal framework defines the governance mechanism and data policy, which is an additional guarantee of security.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague amelia andersdotter on the programme to support space surveillance and the tracking of objects in orbit for the period 2014-2020. the report proposes the establishment of a european service to prevent collisions between spacecraft or between spacecraft and space debris and to monitor the uncontrolled re-entry of spacecraft or parts of spacecraft into the earth's atmosphere. this support programme will thus help to ensure the maintenance of european and national space infrastructures and services which are essential for the security of economies and citizens in europe. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to improve the safety of existing equipment and systems in orbit (collision risks) and to prevent risks to people and ground infrastructure from uncontrolled re-entries of debris or abandoned space objects. it's a real need. but there have been repeated calls for closer cooperation with the united states. what about the other space powers, russia, china, india? you can see the hidden intent. this would mean a weakening of european and national sovereignty in the field of space. moreover, the funding is provided by way of levies on other programmes such as galileo (the 'european gps'), so there is a risk that the actual implementation of the system will be delayed. for these reasons i abstain.
in writing. the proposed programme aims to contribute to the creation of an independent european space surveillance and tracking capability for orbiting objects (sst) to prevent and monitor the increasing risk of collision between space infrastructure and other space vehicles or debris. the need for osh is shared at international and national levels by both governments and industry in general, which are dependent on space infrastructure. it is also important to ensure the long-term availability of european space assets, such as the satellites of the galileo and copernicus programmes. this is the first attempt of its kind at union level and the commission proposes to start by pooling the resources and skills available in the member states and providing specific services to users. this space programme thus meets real needs from both the public and private sectors. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision, which proposes the establishment of a european service to prevent collisions between spacecraft or between spacecraft and space debris, and to monitor the uncontrolled re-entry of spacecraft or parts of spacecraft into the earth's atmosphere. in technical terms, this service is called the european sst service.
in writing. the european union is increasingly taking initiatives to increase its presence in space. space surveillance is both a security issue and a means of improving the union's performance in scientific research and innovation. by supporting the monitoring of space and orbiting objects, we are contributing to a great project to bring the union into line with other world powers. european and national space infrastructures and services must be maintained because they are essential for the security of both the european economy and the security of our citizens. i am glad that i voted in favour of the report. it is with such strategies that the european union can finally live up to its ambitions.
in writing. the european parliament adopted on wednesday, 2 april, by 548 votes in favour, the report by my colleague, mrs agnès le brun, on european funding for animal and plant health measures for the period 2014-2020. i voted in favour of this report because it strengthens all the instruments for health protection, in particular by creating european support for national programmes for the monitoring of plant diseases.
in writing. following the scandal surrounding the presence of horse meat in frozen food, we decided through this resolution to reaffirm the basic principles of expenditure management relating to the food production chain, animal health and welfare and plant reproductive health and material. the agri-food sector must be above reproach if it is to guarantee european consumers a quality diet.
in writing. with this text, we are making it possible to rationalise the legal and financial framework of the food production chain. the aim is to establish coherent funding objectives for more efficient union assistance. this includes simplification of co-financing rates and the establishment of robust indicators to assess the effects of policies related to food supply chain security. the aim is to ensure the safety of food and feed in the production chain. this is a fundamental provision in the search for better food safety.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, the main objective of which is to contribute to a high level of human, animal and plant health throughout the food production chain. the various food scandals have recently shown the feverishness of the european food chain and this regulation will undoubtedly increase transparency in this area, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs agnès le brun, on european funding for animal and plant health measures for the period 2014-2020. the aim of this report is to contribute to a high level of human, animal and plant health, while encouraging competitiveness and job creation. the report also forms part of the reform of european health policy management and aims to simplify the legislative framework for food supply chain safety. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. my report, which was voted on wednesday 2 april, is part of a reform of european management of animal and plant health policy. as rapporteur for this text for the european parliament, i have been working to improve the implementation of this policy on the ground, in order to improve the prevention and management of health crises. major crises such as mad cow disease and avian influenza have shaken european consumer confidence. in the face of these crises, the european union must guarantee the highest standards of safety, quality and traceability, in order to ensure the stability of european production in the long term. the reform of my report has strengthened all the tools for health protection, in particular by creating european support for national programmes for the monitoring of plant diseases, the potential seriousness of which has been demonstrated by the e. coli crisis. i also insisted that the list of diseases for which european aid is provided be included in the report, in the interests of transparency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. this regulation is part of the legislative package entitled 'smarter regulation for safer food'. this is to provide for the financing of preventive actions or responses to health risks. the regulation thus lays down the amounts of subsidies for preventive measures and the list of diseases which give rise to the right to such subsidies. a reserve fund for serious health crises at european level is also being set up. all these provisions are in the right direction. but the financing of crisis prevention and management measures is far from settled. the financial reserve which is intended to be used (the budget for direct aid under pillar 1) would not be sufficient to respond to a serious health crisis. in this context, i shall abstain on this text which raises a problem in order to avoid its solution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which sets the scope and objectives of expenditure on food and feed and modernises the financial provisions in these areas.
in writing. restoring consumer confidence in the food sector is a major priority for the european union. many food crises have shown the need for adapting legislation and increasing financial support. we must be able to prevent food crises as well as to respond effectively when a problem arises. it is about protecting our producers, our consumers and our trading partners. i am glad i voted in favour of this report. it stressed the need to bring together the various legislation relating to the food sectors in order to strengthen health security. the economic recovery requires the restoration of consumer confidence.
in writing. the resolution states that wood remains one of the most widely used raw materials and that trade in wood must also meet specific standards for its use and treatment.
in writing. the flegt licensing scheme acts as a safety net to ensure that timber imported into the union is harvested legally. while the substance of the flegt scheme remains unchanged, this text makes the legal changes necessary to clearly organise the respective prerogatives of parliament and the commission in the application of the scheme. the report therefore provides the union with the institutional means to ensure the legality of imported wood. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution from industrial sources is a very good one. it is also a guarantee to the partner countries to maintain healthy trade relations with them, as the union is one of the main markets for tropical timber imports.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it will enable the union to better tackle the problem of illegal logging and the associated trade. this report sets up an authorization system for the application of forestry regulations, governance and trade related to timber imports into the european community. the text thus provides that only timber and derived products harvested legally and in accordance with the national legislation of the partner countries may enter the union. the new system will ensure better traceability of timber and derived products imported into europe. it will thus benefit the environment, european woodworking companies and consumers.
in writing. - council regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 establishes a licensing system for the application of trade rules in the forestry sector, in order to combat illegal logging and trade. in this context, the proposal under vote today is not intended to change the substantive characteristics of the flegt licensing system, but to harmonise the provisions on comitology contained in regulation (ec) no 2173/2005. under the flegt licensing scheme, partner countries will therefore be required to ensure, through controls and inspections, that timber products have been obtained from legally harvested domestically produced timber or legally imported timber from a partner country.
in writing. in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance. the flegt (forest law enforcement, government and trade) scheme was set up to tackle the problem of illegal logging and associated trade. for example, certain wood and wood products may not be imported from partner countries without an import licence. the proposal before us is aimed solely at adapting the flegt authorisation system to the lisbon treaty by conferring new powers on the commission (delegated and implementing acts). the french people rejected this treaty in a referendum, and i cannot accept that the sovereignty of the people should be undermined, even for minor technical adjustments. therefore, i abstain.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 establishes a licensing regime for 'forest law enforcement, governance and trade', referred to by the acronym flegt ('forest law enforcement, government and trade'). this scheme was set up to combat the problem of illegal logging and the associated trade. it applies to specified wood and derived products exported from 'partner countries', i.e. countries which have entered into voluntary partnership agreements with the union. the proposal adopted by the commission is not intended to change the fundamental features of the flegt licensing system. it shall be kept under constant review by the commission. it also empowers the commission to adopt implementing acts to assess and approve existing mechanisms to ensure the legality and reliable traceability of timber and derived products exported from partner countries, so that those mechanisms can serve as a basis for flegt authorisations. this report, which is very technical, is likely to make it possible to apply the flegt scheme more effectively. so i gave him my support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which aligns council regulation (ec) no 2173/2005 on the establishment of a flegt licensing scheme for imports of timber into the european community with the new rules of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. any product arriving in the european union must be subject to controls to ensure that it meets the various standards that guarantee maximum safety for european consumers. the flegt system for forest regulations ensures that timber and timber products entering the european market do not come from illegal logging. it is not enough to have ideas and values, but also to have the instruments to put them into music. with the flegt system, countries that have signed a voluntary partnership agreement with the union must control their timber in order to eradicate illegal trade. the union will ensure that each partner country respects its standards. i am glad to have voted in favour of this report, which will make it possible to adapt european legislation to the new institutional context. systems such as flegt must be as efficient as possible.
in writing. in order to tackle the problem of illegal logging, trade in timber within the eu is clearly regulated, especially when it comes from countries with which the eu has 'partnerships'. in 2005, a regulation was adopted to define the rules for importing timber into the european union. this regulation specifies that an import licence is required, without which importation is prohibited. since this old regulation was adopted before the treaty of lisbon, it now needs to be revised to adapt it to the new law of the european union, in particular as regards the provisions on the commission's use of delegated and implementing acts. unfortunately, these legal alignments often give the commission an opportunity to renounce parliament's powers. i am glad that this is not the case here and that parliament has managed for once to retain the control it has. on the one hand, parliament has asked to receive all the information and documentation on meetings with national experts on the preparation of delegated acts before they are introduced. it also obtained a longer period for examining these acts. i therefore voted in favour of this very technical report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the clinical trials regulation which replaces the previous 2001 directive. the old european legislation was outdated and the negative consequences were numerous, such as long approval periods, increased production costs, fewer applications for authorization and relocations. the text will harmonise the rules, giving researchers a clear and centralised authorisation procedure and making multinational clinical trials easier to set up.
in writing. although scientific research, particularly in the field of medicine, should be encouraged, it is nevertheless imperative that it should take specific precautions to avoid any practice which may amount to the commodification of human beings.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to amend the legislation on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use in order to strengthen public health while encouraging research. it is essential to promote clinical research in europe, in particular by simplifying and clarifying procedures. the competitiveness of clinical research in europe is thus being revived, whereas the number of clinical trials conducted in europe has been declining in recent years.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows member states to rely on a single text for assessing applications for authorisation of clinical trials. this increased transparency is part of the desire to protect participants by guaranteeing their free and informed consent. i also welcome the fact that a chapter on the protection of personal data is provided for in this regulation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which includes concrete steps to facilitate the implementation of clinical trials of medicinal products for human use in europe while guaranteeing the rights of those involved in such research. it was essential to revise this 2001 directive because the complexity of the measures implementing a clinical trial has become such that investigators prefer to turn to other countries with more flexible regulations. the new rules will not only encourage the conduct of clinical trials on the medicinal product in europe through the administrative simplification introduced, but also ensure greater transparency of the trial results. simplified notification procedures will avoid researchers having to submit largely identical information on the proposed clinical trial to several bodies. a single application for authorisation for each national or multinational trial will be submitted on an eu portal by the sponsor and a rapporteur member state will be designated to assess the scientific and methodological aspects of the research. the new regulation will give european patients the assurance that they will be able to benefit from the best care and the latest medicines.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr glenis willmott, on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. this text, to which i contributed as rapporteur for the epp group, is a major breakthrough for european clinical research, which was suffering the catastrophic consequences of a 2001 directive. with the explosion of costs and approval times, the number of applications for authorisation of clinical trials in the union has collapsed, in favour of the us and emerging countries. the report aims to restore the competitiveness of european clinical research while setting out transparency measures. the procedures for authorising clinical trials are thus harmonised and simplified, and ensure a rapid response. citizens will have access to a european database centralising information on clinical trials authorised in the european union. the sponsors of clinical trials will be required to publish summaries of the results of the trials carried out on this database. european clinical research will thus finally find its way back to competitiveness and will facilitate the rapid arrival of innovative treatments for patients on the market. i am glad that this report was adopted by a very large majority: 594 votes in favour, 17 against and 13 abstentions.
in writing. - the adoption of directive 2001/20/ec marked a major breakthrough in the development of standards for the conduct of clinical trials, both at european and international level. it is necessary to ensure that strict standards for patient care and care are maintained in the union, while promoting scientific research and innovation, through public access to data, in the form of a comprehensive clinical trial report. however, harmonisation and careful evaluation of the existing legal framework is necessary to avoid difficulties in promoting clinical trials in different member states.
in writing. on wednesday 2 april, i voted in favour of measures to simplify and make the legislative framework for clinical trials safer and more transparent. applications for authorisation for clinical trials will be simplified, with over 4[nbsp]400 applications being submitted each year in europe. we have set approval deadlines to avoid blocking clinical trials by administrative delays. we have also increased transparency and access to information through an internet portal where all test results, as well as marketing authorisations and market withdrawal decisions will have to be published. this is a particularly important step forward. finally, we have harmonised the rules on the authorisation and evaluation of clinical trials to facilitate the conduct of cross-border clinical trials. the new rules will support research in the field of rare diseases, for which there are insufficient patients in a single european country to initiate clinical trials in view of the costs generated. the measures adopted by the european parliament will save more than four billion euros between 2014 and 2020.
in writing. the report purports to strengthen scientific cooperation within the union and to increase knowledge in the field of public health. it starts from the observation of the fall of 25% of clinical trials in europe and the consequences of this brake in the search for medical treatments. the regulation aims to better define and regulate clinical trials and also to better protect and take into account patients who consent to participate in them. but once again, the economic and financial view prevails over research. the aim is therefore to reduce delays and simplify bureaucratic procedures, i.e. to increase the pace and to reduce posts. all this in order to reduce costs and bring back private developers who have gone to do their testing outside the eu. these same promoters give priority to cost-effective clinical trials, excluding those for rare diseases. in any case, the reduction in public research funding, linked to the austerity policy being pursued throughout europe, is not in any way in doubt. i'm not going to do it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which aims to revitalise clinical research in europe by facilitating the implementation of multinational trials through harmonisation of processes and coordination of evaluation mechanisms. in the trilogue negotiations, the european parliament succeeded in putting the patient back at the centre of this regulation. we have made real improvements to the text, including: ensuring transparency of the conduct and results of clinical trials by creating an eu internet portal, providing patients with good information, in particular on the potential risks of the clinical trial, and increasing protection measures for vulnerable people (children, the elderly, pregnant women, people with disabilities).
in writing. 4[nbsp ]400 applications for authorisation for clinical trials are submitted each year in the european union and the european economic area. the current directive should be replaced by a regulation in order to harmonise the rules and establish cooperation between member states. this harmonisation of rules will provide european researchers with a clear and centralised authorisation procedure with reduced approval times and a faster and simplified process in the end. in parallel, the text strengthens the transparency of clinical trials by making publicly available a european database for information on clinical trials authorised in the european union, whether their results are positive or negative. it is in this sense that i have supported this report which will make it possible to develop more transparent and competitive european clinical research.
in writing. following the fukushima nuclear disaster, there was a need to move towards a community framework for the safety of nuclear installations. finally, it seems necessary to emphasize the questions connected with the independence of the french authority for the supervision of nuclear installations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the jordan report which strengthens the community framework for the safety of nuclear installations. i voted in favour of the amendments to guarantee the independence of the national safety authorities to prevent the commission from overstepping its nuclear safety prerogatives. i regret that these amendments were rejected.
in writing. the fukushima accident has demonstrated the need for an effective community framework for the safety of nuclear installations. good cooperation between the european and national levels is essential to establish strong protection for citizens. it is essential to adopt a more preventive than reactive approach. we must be vigilant and ready to intervene in the event of an accident at nuclear installations. the independence of the regulatory authorities responsible for the assessment of nuclear safety is therefore crucial. this is the approach we wanted to support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive, which aims to prevent radioactive discharges at all stages of the life cycle of nuclear installations. i also welcome the introduction of benchmarks and strict requirements to ensure the effective independence of the competent regulatory authorities. this is further evidence of transparency which i welcome.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's vote on this report to improve nuclear safety in the european union after the fukushima disaster and the stress testing exercise for european nuclear power stations, which is a model at international level. provisions on the general organisation of nuclear safety, safety culture, the independence of national safety authorities and transparency are strengthened and new provisions on emergency preparedness and response are created. in addition, the creation of a european system of peer review of nuclear installations is to be welcomed. but in this particular case, it is important to ensure that the competences of ensreg as the body of the 28 european regulators are respected and to frame the role of the european commission in order to guarantee full independence of the national safety authorities.
in writing. i voted against this report which revises the european nuclear safety directive. the vote was an opportunity to send a strong signal to the commission and the member states: more safety, more safeguards to prevent a new fukushima in europe. it wasn't. the nuclear safety authorities (nsas) will still lack the necessary skills to prevent operators from taking unreasonable risks. nor will they have any real powers of sanction. in the end, this vote only reinforces our view of nuclear power as a closed environment, closed to any outside control and to any citizen's right to look.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague romana jordan on the community framework for nuclear safety. the proposal introduces new objectives of security and transparency at union level and promotes the exchange of best practice between member states. the text nevertheless proposes an increase in the european commission's remit, which blurs the chain of responsibility between the member states, the commission and the national safety authorities, which must remain independent if they are to remain the cornerstone of nuclear safety. the report was adopted by 438 votes to 154, with 37 abstentions. i am very pleased with this result.
in writing. - the safety of nuclear installations remains a priority for the european union and its institutions. however, as the report points out, there is a need to provide a community framework for the regulation of this matter which can be homogeneous and streamline the different national regulations. the nuclear policy is increasingly a policy which must concern us as the european union and therefore must be dealt with and administered by the union itself, while leaving the member states the prerogatives which they should have.
in writing. a rigorous and stable framework for nuclear safety at european level is necessary because the consequences of a nuclear accident extend far beyond national borders. in the face of such a challenge, strict measures must be taken. the first condition is an immediate ban on nuclear subcontracting. but this text is only vague measures of uncertain application. in many respects, he is sorely lacking in ambition. nuclear safety authorities must be able to impose real safety requirements on nuclear sites from the construction phase to dismantling. it's not. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. the race to extend the life of power stations in europe is a madness driven by productivist blindness and state misery. finally, it is no longer acceptable that nuclear issues should remain the sole responsibility of the european commission. i abstain in order not to oppose the few advances in this report, which is the result of a soft consensus with the nuclear operators!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to amend council directive 2009/71/euratom establishing a community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear installations with a view to improving nuclear safety and taking into account the lessons learned from the fukushima accident in japan. the new proposal strengthens the existing provisions of council directive 2009/71/euratom with the overall objective of continuously improving nuclear safety and related regulation at eu level.
in writing. france is one of the world leaders in civil nuclear energy. this technology also accounts for a major share of energy consumption in france. i am in favour of increased security around nuclear energy. it is necessary. but i'm against the complete suppression of technology. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. we need a community framework for the safety of nuclear installations while preserving a certain degree of independence of the national safety authorities. this will enable us to prevent certain disasters and to respond more effectively to emergencies. we need to tame this technology to get the best out of it.
in writing. this report strengthens safety standards in some european nuclear power plants following the european exercise of stress tests carried out in plants in the european union and some neighbouring countries in the aftermath of the fukushima disaster. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. these evaluations will also be subject to union-wide peer reviews. i supported this report because it is important to guarantee the full independence of the national safety authorities and at the same time to strengthen the role of ensreg (european nuclear safety authorities group) in its role of coordinating the work of the national regulators in good cooperation with the european commission.
in writing. tax fraud and tax evasion in europe are phenomena against which the european union must fight relentlessly. it was important to approve such a text which aims to put an end, in particular, to the double non-taxation, which results from certain hybrid financial schemes, for certain companies. we cannot allow this phenomenon to generate unfair competition in europe and a loss of revenue for the member states. therefore, clear tax rules on the distribution of profits between member states should be established. the tax exemption for european companies on distributed profits must therefore be better regulated.
in writing. the proposal under consideration aims to address the issue of hybrid financial arrangements within the scope of the 'parent-subsidiary' (pmd) directive. the rapporteur proposes to strengthen the definition of a parent company: extending the duration and increasing the minimum shareholding held by the parent company in the capital of a subsidiary established in another member state will thus prevent multinationals from making illicit profits. the report also promotes an anti-abuse rule under which all member states will be required to ignore tax advantages arising from artificial arrangements or arrangements which have no commercial justification and do not reflect economic reality. all these good intentions are unfortunately in conflict with the reality of fiscal dumping in the european union, which is being promoted by the commission. i abstain in order to encourage these efforts without any illusions about their application.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to address the issue of hybrid financial arrangements within the scope of directive 2011/96/eu (mff) and to replace the current anti-abuse provision with a common anti-abuse rule, based on the similar provision in the recommendation on aggressive tax planning. in order to avoid situations of double non-taxation arising from the asymmetry of the tax treatment applied to distributions of profits between member states, that directive provides that the member state of the parent company or that of its permanent establishment should not grant to those undertakings tax exemption on the distributed profits received in so far as they are deductible by the subsidiary of the parent company.
in writing. the stockholm programme sets out the european union's priorities for the area of freedom, security and justice for the period 2010-2014. however, it is now coming to an end, and a new strategic vision is needed to define the long-term orientations of justice and home affairs policies up to 2020. that is the subject of this report. i supported the main points in this report, including eu accession to the echr, improved access to documents, the extension of the powers of the european public prosecutor's office to crossborder crime, the strengthening of eurojust, the reform of frontex, cooperation with third countries on freedom, security and justice. i voted in favour of the report on the final vote.
in writing. this mid-term review of the stockholm programme provided an opportunity to present the main developments since the adoption of the lisbon treaty, including the recognition of the legally binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the increased participation of national parliaments in the activities of the union, and the fact that even in the absence of agreement on a uniform electoral procedure for european elections, a gradual convergence of electoral systems has taken place. i welcome the adoption of the regulation on the european citizens' initiative which gives citizens the same powers of political initiative as those already enjoyed by the european parliament and the council and also note that the stockholm programme aims to facilitate the free movement of citizens and residents of the union by defending and respecting all the rights and obligations arising from a european area of justice, while noting that judicial cooperation is the main tool to achieve this objective.
in writing. this paper examines the stockholm programme, which is the european union's roadmap for policies relating to the area of freedom, security and justice for the period 2014-2020. although he makes an interesting assessment of this programme, i preferred to abstain when voting on this text. the text contained too many unacceptable provisions, in particular on the mutual recognition of civil status documents in europe, which i oppose. the european union must respect the competences of the member states. the text also condemns any attempt to restrict the free movement of persons in europe. again, i do not support such claims. i am, on the contrary, in favour of a debate on the framework for the free movement of persons in europe, in particular to put an end to the risk of social dumping.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues luigi berlinguer, juan fernando lopez aguilar and carlo casini on the mid-term review of the stockholm programme. this programme, which was intended to set out the union's priorities in the area of freedom, security and justice for the period 2010-2014, had not been examined by the european commission as it should have been, leading to this examination by parliament, in order to draw lessons from this programme and to lay the foundations for the next one for the period 2014-2020. the report was adopted by 367 votes to 85, with 29 abstentions. i welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. this report on the justice, freedom and security programme makes interesting findings but omits the sensitive points of this policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, in particular by introducing a new data protection directive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i take note of these paradoxical positions and i shall vote against this text.
in writing. this own-initiative report deals with the stockholm programme an open and secure europe at the service of citizens. it aims to set the framework for police and customs cooperation, civil protection, judicial cooperation in criminal and civil matters, asylum and migration matters and visa policy for the years 2010 to 2014 in the european union. this report is a disappointing compromise that is sorely lacking in ambition. i therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. i voted for this report. four years after its adoption and a few months before the european council next june defines the new post-stockholm programme for the period 2014-2020, the european parliament is reviewing the progress made and the guidelines it wants to see developed for the future. the report considers that some areas of the area of freedom, security and justice require additional efforts, particularly in terms of implementation and more uniform application. in this report, parliament regrets the lack of an objective assessment of the progress made.
in writing. i abstained on the european parliament's report on the mid-term review of the stockholm programme because it is, in many respects, disappointing to say the least. apart from the fact that, contrary to what the title suggests, we are not at the halfway point of the stockholm programme but at its end, the content of this report falls far short of what one might expect from the european parliament. this report could have been an opportunity to take a real stock of the policies on justice, security and freedom and to draw constructive criticism from them in order to give the next guidelines the right course to follow, but there is no question of that. the report has been deconstructed by the right wing of this house, but it is regrettable that the majority of my colleagues have not been able to oppose this approach. this is not surprising, but it is not encouraging for the fundamental rights of individuals, which, again, are not the priority in this area. if the union is an area of security, it is certainly not yet an area of justice, and we still have a long way to go before it can become one.
in writing. this text amends the legislation establishing a community system of controls on exports, transfers, brokering and transit of dual-use goods. delegated powers are then given to the european commission to enable it to adapt more rapidly to developments in international export control regimes. i support the rationalization of the procedures applied in the european system of such export controls in order to increase their efficiency.
in writing. dual-use goods are products, including software and technology, which can be intended for both civilian and military use. they can thus enter the non-proliferation policy. any export of dual-use goods from the european union (eu) to a third country requires an export authorisation. the proposal aims to align the regulation with the lisbon treaty and to introduce delegated acts for updating annex i (list of controlled goods) and amending annex ii (general export authorisation from the union for 6 types of lower risk exports and to certain destinations). i am opposed to this extension of the commission's powers. i object to this alienation of france's sovereignty. in this order of decision, independence alone guarantees sovereignty in the choice of alliances. but under rule 97 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, this text is deemed to have been adopted without the opinion of the members being sought. otherwise i would have voted against it.
in writing. i supported this report which amends council regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishing a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use goods. the purpose of this regulation is to ensure regular and timely updates of the union watch list, in compliance with the obligations and commitments entered into by the member states under international export control regimes. it will also allow the union to react quickly to changing circumstances concerning the assessment of the sensitivity of exports subject to union general export authorisations.
in writing. the proposal for a directive aims to establish a system for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading in the european union with a view to the implementation by 2020 of an international convention applying a global market mechanism to international aviation emissions. in other words, the objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the aviation sector. the challenge is to succeed in acting on a global scale. but to convince our partners, we must first act at european level. i therefore supported the agreement reached in the trilogue to limit the application to intra-eu flights for the time being. i'm pleased that an agreement has been reached. we must now succeed in acting on a global scale.
in writing. it has been brought to our attention that although the eu ets applies only to intra-european flights, some member states now seem reluctant to implement the legislation. third countries, such as china and india, refuse to refund quotas for flights to europe, for example between frankfurt and london. we considered it unacceptable to enter into discussions with the council on the results of a legislative proposal before the very limited suspensive legislation has been clearly applied. we cannot accept that third countries, such as china or india, refuse to comply with european legislation when they operate flights within the european union. we believe that it is necessary to reach agreement on an amendment to the directive and we are ready to discuss it with all the stakeholders.
in writing. this vote represents a minimal compromise by the most polluting countries on our climate policies. parliament has endorsed a compromise limiting the coverage of the european emissions trading system to intra-european flights only. by accepting this dossier, the european union has shown its weakness in relation to major powers such as china and the united states in terms of environmental legislation.
in writing. by voting on this text, the european parliament gave its opinion on the application of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading mechanism in the field of aviation. intercontinental flights are rightly excluded from the scope of the european greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme until 2016. by limiting this mechanism to intra-european flights, we want to facilitate the conclusion of an international agreement on co2 emission reductions in the field of aviation. in this compromise we are adopting a balanced position between respect for the environment and the competitiveness of the air transport sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of an amendment to this report which would exclude flights outside the european union from the scope of this mechanism until 2016. in line with recent commitments made to the international civil aviation organisation, such a measure is intended to facilitate the conclusion of a global agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. the text as amended must therefore be able to protect the climate while preserving the competitiveness of our airlines. it also excludes flights between the union and its outermost regions from the scope of the emissions trading scheme. in these latter countries, the airplane is often the only means of transport and helps to facilitate the mobility of the inhabitants.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement reached with the council on the application of the carbon tax until 2016 only to flights between airports in the european economic area. indeed, i believe that a rejection of this agreement is not satisfactory because it would only provide arguments to encourage some states not to commit to an international agreement on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and would send the wrong signal to key partners such as the united states, china, india or brazil to reach an ambitious agreement at the 21st un climate change conference in paris in 2015.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague peter liese on the trading of greenhouse gas emission allowances for international aviation. the main question was whether international flights should be subject to the ets, at the risk of starting a trade war with china or russia, or whether it was better to exclude them from the ets until the international civil aviation organization meets in 2016 and adopts comprehensive measures to combat greenhouse gases. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the report was adopted by 458 votes to 120, with 24 abstentions. i am very pleased with this result.
in writing. reducing greenhouse gas emissions from civil aviation is unavoidable and necessary. the european union is showing by this text that it is absolutely not up to the challenge. it is ideologically committed to the principles of the carbon market and has given up any ecological ambition. the report also shows a glaring setback in european environmental ambitions: it celebrates the capitulation of the european union on the international scene. in the name of waiting for an international agreement, the union is increasing the number of derogations for international flights. instead of being a power that firmly imposes its principles of combating global warming, it is entering into a game of compromise with powers that have not been very prominent in recent years in the fight for environmental protection, especially the united states. i am firmly opposed to the principle of a carbon market and i am in favour of an eco-socialist policy which would involve ecological planning, in particular for the development of alternative transport solutions, in international aviation. this ecological planning is not compatible with the liberal and austerity policy of the european union which is reflected in this text.
in writing. this report focuses on the inclusion of civil aviation in the european emissions trading system. it validates a compromise reached between the european institutions which provides for the exclusion of flights to and from third countries from the application of the european carbon tax until 2016, pending an international agreement on the application of an emission trading scheme to civil aviation. it also excludes flights to and from the outermost regions of the union. until now, flights to third countries were excluded, but those to the outermost regions were subject to the carbon tax. of course, this system was particularly penalising for the ors which were in an unfavourable competitive situation vis-à-vis their neighbours. the report therefore proposes to restore a level playing field between the ors and their neighbouring third countries. i therefore supported this report which calls for the exclusion of the ors from the european greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system, as long as third countries are not subject to it.
in writing. i supported the trialogue agreement. the non-application of the aviation carbon tax to intercontinental flights is an important concession by the european union to third countries such as china, the united states, russia and india. this respite will allow them to devote their time to the development of a global agreement within the international civil aviation organisation (icao). by 2016, we must all work towards a market mechanism to regulate aviation emissions globally.
in writing. i voted in favour of the co2 tax on air travel within the european economic area. the text excluded intercontinental flights until 2016. this was one of the sine qua non conditions for china, the united states and russia to agree to develop a global agreement within the international civil aviation organization (icao), scheduled to be concluded in 2016. it is a last chance for these countries to adapt. if there is no agreement in 2016, we will not accept the continuation of such an exemption. i also welcome the exclusion of flights to the outermost regions (ors) from the scope of the directive. indeed, today the full application of the carbon tax to airlines operating in the ors would mechanically increase the cost of air tickets for passengers to and from these regions. this increases the handicap of remoteness suffered by the rup by unfairly penalising passengers, but also the flow of perishable goods.
in writing. this draft regulation, combined with the revision of the payment services directive, aims to create common rules for interchange fees, i.e. charges related to the use of bank cards. the aim here is to introduce ceilings and to improve the transparency of these charges. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, which improves consumer protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the zalba bidegain report on interchange fees for card-related transactions. these are fees which have been monitored by competition authorities since 1984 in europe to ensure a fair balance between the financing of these commercial fees and consumer protection. the aim of this report is to bring the different committees in all the member states into line and eventually to abolish them. i have spoken in favour of a balanced relationship of transparency and consistency between banks and consumers. i want an economic justification for the amounts withdrawn by the banks.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which provides for a cap on interchange fees for debit and credit card payments. this cap will allow for more transparency in payments and lower prices for consumers within the internal market
in writing. this text lays down common rules on interbank commissions. they are generally applied between the acquiring payment service providers and card issuers belonging to a given card scheme (for example, between a customer's bank and the merchant's bank). the european parliament has adopted a strong position in this vote with a view to negotiations with the other institutions of the european union. in particular, it shall set ceilings for these interchange fees. i strongly support this text, which is precisely intended to facilitate card payments within the union, particularly when a citizen is in another member state.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr pablo zalba bidegain, on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. the report aims to establish common rules on interchange fees in the european union by placing a ceiling on them for transactions carried out using payment cards. it also proposes measures to enable retailers and consumers to make better choices about their payment instruments. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the proposed regulation aims to improve the functioning of the internal market for card payments. one of the main obstacles to card payments is the widespread existence of interchange fees. interchange fees are interbank fees charged between acquiring banks and card issuers. they constitute a significant part of the fees charged to merchants for each card transaction. merchants, in turn, pass on these card-related costs in the price of their goods and services. in practice, competition between card schemes aims to convince the largest number of payment service providers to choose their cards, which generally leads to higher costs (advertising, ancillary benefit, etc.). the regulation sets the rates applicable to payment service providers, with ceilings of 0.2% and 0.3% of the value of the transaction. in fact, it is a private consumption tax. the aim is therefore to tackle (somewhat) the profits of the banks in order to reduce the cost to consumers. i vote for it.
in writing. this is a regulation concerning the fees charged for each card payment, known as interchange fees. these fees are paid by the merchant's bank to the cardholder's bank for each transaction. the level of fees varies considerably between member states and between different types of cards. each year, 9 billion euros in interchange fees are paid in the european union. interchange fees are not the subject of specific legislation in most member states. the regulation is in fact based on the competition case law between the commission and mastercard and visa europe. the level of interchange fee caps proposed by the commission (0.2% for debit cards and 0.3% for credit cards) is the result of an agreement concluded following a competition case involving these companies. this report is a real step forward in the fight against excessive bank charges and will be of particular benefit to consumers and small traders. i gave him my support accordingly.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to establish common rules on interchange fees in the european union, by capping them for transactions made using payment cards which are widely used by consumers. it also provides for transparency measures to ensure that retailers and consumers can make informed choices about their payment instruments.
in writing. with this text, we are planning the establishment of an integrated payments market. in other words, the aim is to remove barriers to competition in the area of card and internet payments. this is to improve the interoperability of card, internet and mobile payment systems. but it is also a higher level of security and transparency of payments achieved. by voting for these amendments we are therefore in favour of diversifying the means of making immediate payments in a more secure way.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague diogo feio's report on payment services in the internal market, which proposes the implementation of a more transparent, innovative and secure european legal framework. this is because significant parts of the payments market remain partitioned along national borders, which hampers the development of innovative digital payment services and deprives consumers and retailers of convenient and secure payment solutions. the main aims of the proposal are to ensure a level playing field, to facilitate the provision of innovative crossborder card payment services, to align pricing practices and to better protect consumers' interests. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the proposal aims to repeal the current payment services directive (psd). the aim is to extend the scope of this directive in order to improve the functioning of the internal market for payment services. by facilitating transactions within the eu, the commission hopes to boost growth. low consumption has little to do with means of payment but with the income available to individuals. the directive will nevertheless make it possible to support the fight against money laundering by means of increased supervision of payment institutions. i am voting with a little enthusiasm to encourage this.
in writing. the objective of this regulation is to deepen the single market for electronic communications. it should therefore enable european citizens and businesses to benefit more widely from communication services, without cross-border restrictions or unjustified additional costs. in other words, we are putting an end to roaming charges: consumers will not pay more when they make calls or send messages from another eu country. this is a huge step forward for consumer rights! i also wanted to make clear in this text the principle of net neutrality, which means that an internet service provider cannot discriminate or interfere with traffic based on user activity. this is a fundamental principle which we must defend at european level. the final text, which meets these requirements, i voted for.
in writing. the single market for electronic communications is at the heart of the digital economy. in order to enable europe to fully exploit the potential of the digital single market for growth, competitiveness and employment, the role of telecommunications in promoting innovation and connectivity in all sectors of the economy should be strengthened. after three regulations over a period of six years, we have finally proposed to abolish roaming surcharges for voice, sms and data calls. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to create a new legal obligation for operators to provide the services of a service provider in the union.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the telecoms package, which abolishes roaming charges for mobile communications from december 2015. this is a real breakthrough for european consumers. the european union is moving towards a single digital communications market. this market will enable individuals and businesses to access electronic communications services, regardless of where those services are provided in the union, without cross-border restrictions or unjustified additional costs. as for companies providing electronic communications networks and services, they will be able to operate their networks and provide their services regardless of their place of establishment or the geographical location of their customers in the european union. as regards net neutrality, i support an open definition that offers consumers a quality access service and allows the development of innovative offers.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the net neutrality part of the telecoms package and welcome the european parliament's rewriting of the commission's original text. in its initial proposal, the european commission wanted to regulate the preferential treatment that operators can offer to certain services, while guaranteeing the quality of the basic service. it was the door to differentiated internet access offers, to an internet controlled by internet service providers who themselves became content providers. with this text, the principle of net neutrality becomes explicit, general and binding. let us hope that the council will take its responsibilities and support this text which protects the fundamental rights of our citizens and supports our innovative smes against the gargantuan appetites of the large american multinationals.
in writing. the adoption of this text is a major step towards a single european market for electronic communications, whereas the current market still appears to be too fragmented. the telecommunications market is a source of considerable potential competitiveness. it is estimated that the single market for business communication services could generate profits of almost €90 billion per year. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text which lays down the principles necessary for the completion of this market. the abolition of roaming charges is one of the major successes of this text. consumers will then be able to move around europe without incurring additional charges for calls, messages and mobile internet. another important point concerns the neutrality of the internet, which is then enshrined in this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, the general objective of which is to move towards a single market for electronic communications, putting an end to the fragmentation which currently exists in the union. i am pleased that the proposal also ensures the harmonisation of virtual access to fixed networks. this will facilitate market entry and cross-border service provision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and i welcome the european parliament's willingness to reject any obstacles to net neutrality. it's a victory for public and digital freedoms! we, the meps, rejected the idea of a multi-speed internet, which would no longer be open and accessible to all. the conservatives' plan was to make the quality of internet access and its content dependent on commercial agreements between internet service providers and service giants. this vote is a first step towards the final inclusion of digital freedoms and the protection of net neutrality as inalienable and unalterable rights in europe.
in writing. i supported this report because, thanks to the efforts of the socialists, we have managed to keep the principle of net neutrality intact. the european parliament's position, which the council is therefore called upon to join, is that internet service providers should not be able to block or slow down access to websites they dislike, or to give preferential treatment to one over the other. we also introduced a definition which guarantees all users permanent access to the content of their choice and adequate connection speed. these are essential elements for consumers and small telecom companies alike and this reform should encourage investment and job creation. another important element in favour of this text is the fixing of a date for the end of all roaming costs by december 2015. we want to make sure that no more citizens turn off their mobile phones abroad for fear of an exorbitant bill. the internet should remain a public space where everyone can access a service or application of their choice, without restriction or limitation.
in writing. while the european union has many flaws and imperfections, we can be happy about the concrete progress that citizens are not aware of, such as the abolition of roaming charges from december 2015. from that year onwards, when a citizen crosses the border, he will no longer be affected by surcharges on his calls, sms and data exchanges. it will be able to travel and make calls throughout europe without fear of overcharging. as regards net neutrality, which i strongly support, i regret the approach taken by the european parliament, which risks stifling innovation in the field of communications. too much regulation and supervision can sometimes be counterproductive. by strictly limiting the rights of operators to intervene in the network when we do not have a complete and precise control of the issue, we risk ultimately affecting the rights of consumers, which is the very opposite of what was intended.
in writing. i supported the report on the single market for electronic communications as it is a fundamental step forward in this field, which is still marked by the fragmentation of national markets. the text will improve the daily lives of european citizens: elimination of roaming surcharges (calls, messages or mobile internet use) by the end of 2015, facilitation of the development of very high-speed internet, etc. these are concrete steps forward that are essential for the citizens of europe. the text adopted, however, lacks coherence in terms of net neutrality. i defend the principle of net neutrality, understood as the absence of discrimination in the treatment of traffic regardless of the sender, receiver, service, etc. however, this principle should not jeopardise the existence and future development of specialised services (e.g. telemedicine, videoconferencing, etc.) which require flow management. the overly restrictive framework for these specialised services is contrary to innovation and the interests of consumers. unfortunately, the wording adopted in the adoption of the socialist and liberal amendments in this respect does not ensure the necessary articulation between the recognition of net neutrality and the preservation of the existence and development of specialised services.
in writing. defending freedom and neutrality on the internet i voted, together with my colleagues, for the texts in the european parliament aimed at defending freedom and in particular neutrality on the internet. i felt it was my duty to preserve this rare space of freedom of expression in the face of the, at least, suspicious demands of certain lobbies of telecom operators and their pro-european allies in the committee on industry. it is very important to affirm our principles in defence of our freedoms in the face of the abuses that have been observed across the atlantic and around the world, both in the scandals connected with the widespread surveillance of citizens and public actors and in the dangerous collusion between multinational companies.
in writing. the report aims to complete the 'single telecommunications market', i.e. to allow for further liberalisation of the telecommunications sector. the rapporteur nevertheless proposes some measures which will have a beneficial effect on consumers, such as the abolition of roaming charges. at the same time, however, it rejects the regulation of international calls proposed by the commission on the grounds that this market is deregulated and therefore competitive. the report is aimed at promoting 'effective competition in retail markets'. finally, the question of net neutrality, i.e. the exclusion of any discrimination as regards the source, destination or content of information transmitted over the network, would have been absent without the amendments tabled by my group. i am voting for it in order to support the progress we have succeeded in making.
in writing. this report is about the commission's proposal on the single market for electronic communications and making europe a connected continent. while the commission's initial proposal was very disappointing, the parliament's report is much more offensive since it calls for the end of roaming charges, i.e. surcharges applied to calls or sms sent from one member state to another, by 2015 and calls for equal and non-discriminatory access to the internet for all territories. i had tabled important amendments to ensure that the outermost regions are not excluded from the scope of the regulation and that investment in electronic communications infrastructure is also encouraged in the outermost regions so as not to aggravate their developmental handicaps. i have of course supported this report and i welcome the fact that parliament is proposing to put an end to a system which is very advantageous for operators but totally penalising the citizens of the european union. it is now up to france to follow this path and put an end to the franco-french system of overseas roaming, which breaks with territorial continuity and contributes to the expensive life overseas.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to abolish roaming charges for calls, messages and mobile internet by 15 december 2015 and improve radio spectrum management to develop 4g and 5g in europe. the regulation provides additional safeguards to maintain the openness of the internet by ensuring that users can use and offer applications and services of their choice and by strengthening the internet as a key enabler of competitiveness, growth, jobs and innovation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i think that the text adopted by the industry committee is a good compromise, which guarantees both net neutrality and quality internet access services, while allowing the development of innovative commercial offers through 'specialized services'. i believe that the fears of those who see the death of the internet in this text are unfounded: all measures have been taken to ensure strict control of the "specialized services" and to avoid any discrimination or voluntary degradation of traffic. i also support the abolition of roaming charges by 2015. the often exorbitant costs of such roaming are unjustified and severely penalise cross-border workers. with this text, parliament is now showing that it is standing up for the consumer and preparing an ambitious and effective digital europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on two major issues: net neutrality and the costs of roaming, i.e. occasional travel abroad. thanks to the action of the socialists, all roaming costs will be eliminated from december 2015 to enable all europeans to use their mobile phone in another eu country at a lower cost. similarly, the european right has tried to challenge net neutrality. this could have allowed internet service providers to charge their customers extra for access to their favourite websites and would have been a serious challenge to democracy by giving operators the power to choose what we can see on the internet. the socialists and democrats fought and won against the epp to preserve a strict and clear definition of net neutrality and related services.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is a step towards a digital europe. with this text, the digitisation of administrative procedures will be greatly simplified because it will be legally recognised on an equal footing with paper documents, thus simplifying the lives of businesses, citizens and public services.
in writing. on 4 june 2012, the commission proposed a regulation on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions within the internal market, as the last action in a series of 12 key actions proposed in the single market act. we have responded to the needs of digital market players by ensuring a comprehensive legal framework to ensure secure and reliable electronic transactions across the european union.
in writing. this regulation on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions within the internal market is an important step towards simplifying administrative procedures in europe. i wanted to support the legal recognition of digital documents and thus strengthen confidence in electronic transactions. the recognition of electronic signatures seems to me particularly interesting in order to facilitate the often overly burdensome procedures and the exchange of documents, this by means of digitisation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which aims to create greater confidence in electronic transactions within the internal market. i welcome the establishment of mutual recognition and acceptance of electronic identification means. this will undoubtedly increase crossborder trade flows.
in writing. - the legal and regulatory fragmentation of electronic transactions in the internal market, in particular electronic identification and trust services, is a real obstacle to the economic momentum of this sector. in this respect, i welcome the possibility of adopting rules to ensure the mutual recognition of electronic identification and authentication throughout the eu. as the european parliament, on the other hand, we have repeatedly stressed the importance of security in the electronic market, to protect consumers and producers from possible fraud.
in writing. the proposal aims to create greater trust in electronic transactions within the eu. this is not only to increase the mutual recognition and acceptance of electronic identification systems across the union, but also to establish a common framework for trust services, such as electronic signatures. the rapporteur has many reservations about the delegated and implementing acts available to the commission. particular attention is also paid to the accessibility of these digital services to disabled people. i vote for it.
in writing. the european union currently has no comprehensive transnational and cross-sectoral framework for electronic transactions covering electronic identification, authentication and trust services. the only directive on this subject concerns electronic signatures. this report therefore deals with a commission proposal to make up for this shortfall. it is structured around two distinct parts: the first is mainly about the mutual recognition and acceptance of notified electronic identification schemes at eu level, while the second aims at establishing a common framework for trust services, such as electronic signatures. the report should help to strengthen the confidence of individual consumers and traders in electronic transactions. in view of the clear economic potential of this sector, this stimulus is welcome and i have therefore supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to create greater trust in electronic transactions within the internal market and to ensure the transnational legal recognition of electronic identification, authentication and signatures and associated trust services.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to amend the existing legislation to strengthen the specific requirements for the statutory audit of public-interest entities (pii), such as banks, insurance companies and listed companies. indeed, it is necessary to address the weaknesses that were highlighted at the time of the financial crisis. i therefore argue that it is legitimate in particular for each member state to designate a competent authority responsible for the supervision of auditors and audit firms carrying out statutory audits of the accounts of public-interest entities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which strengthens the specific requirements for statutory audit of public-interest entities. with the adoption of this regulation, auditors will have to define appropriate policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the obligations regarding their independence, which i can only welcome.
in writing. public interest entities (pis) are entities that are of significant public interest because of their field of activity, size or number of employees. the proposed text aims to reform the audit procedures of these entities. the initial aim was to improve the quality of these audits by ensuring the independence of the auditors, but the compromise between the institutions concerned (trilogue) falls far short of the requirements set by parliament. the obligation to change auditors every 10 years was thus circumvented to allow for the renewal of this period and its extension to 14 years. in short, this text, which is supposed to tighten up the rules, does not. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this report which weakens the original proposal of the european commission. the purpose of the regulation was to establish the conditions for carrying out statutory audits of the financial statements of public-interest entities (pii). directive 2006/43/ec already contained certain requirements that applied to the statutory audit of the accounts of eips.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which will strengthen the free movement of legal workers, since they will be able to offer their services on a cross-border basis on a temporary or occasional basis. however, i share the european union's wish to give member states the option of choosing between a period of adaptation and a test of competence in the appointment of these controllers, which will help to save national sovereignty.
in writing. this text establishes a more precise framework for the audit of companies' accounts in order to improve the internal market for statutory audit. with this provision, we make the choice for audit firms to have a detailed overview of the financial state of companies. clearly, it is rightly intended to ensure a certain uniformity in the training of auditors and greater independence of audit firms. this is a rationalization that is useful for better monitoring the health of european societies.
in writing. - in matters of statutory audits, in particular those relating to annual and consolidated accounts, it is necessary to provide for certain forms of protection for those exercising a profession. in accordance with the rules of the internal market, which provides for the free movement of goods and services, it is necessary to guarantee that statutory auditors also have the possibility of cooperating within the european framework and of accessing information by breaking down national and transnational barriers. the rules for this profession will also need to be adjusted to make it possible for workers in this sector to face as few difficulties as possible when practising in a country other than their own.
in writing. the proposed text aims to reform the audit procedures of public-interest entities. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. the obligation to change auditors every 10 years was abandoned in order to allow this period to be renewed and extended to 14 years. in short, this text was supposed to tighten the rules, but it does not. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this report which weakens the original proposal of the european commission. this directive was intended to amend the provisions on the authorisation and registration of auditors and audit firms, the principles enshrined in directive 2006/43/ec on professional ethics, professional secrecy, independence and disclosure, and the rules on supervision, which remain applicable to the audit of non-public interest entities.
in writing. the news coverage of events in ukraine has been somewhat muted over the past week, as the situation is still not stabilized. europe and france cannot afford to have a factor of instability at their doorstep and to watch without reacting as a partner is plunged into a deep political and economic crisis. europe's credibility also depends on its ability to maintain its status as a major diplomatic power and to show firmness when democratic principles and the integrity of a territory are threatened. we cannot let ukraine sink into crisis. that is why i supported the european proposal to reduce customs duties on ukrainian imports. the european commission estimates that this flexibility measure should save ukraine up to €500 million in the coming months. this may not be enough, but it will at least help to mitigate the effects of the economic and financial crisis on the ukrainian population.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pawel zalewski on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine. the country has been through intense political upheavals in recent months and its new government needs substantial eu support to deal with the economic and financial difficulties. by unilaterally and temporarily lowering trade barriers to imports from ukraine to the union, the proposal should help ukrainian companies to increase their export volumes and diversify their outlets. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. last november, the ukrainian government postponed signing the eu-ukraine association agreement, which provides for the establishment of a free trade area. in view of the current situation, the eu decides to take action. after signing the political parts of the agreement with an unelected government, the european union now wants to remove customs duties on goods from ukraine. i am opposed to these new free trade agreements. this is all the more so when they are concluded with unelected governments, which include members of the neo-nazi svoboda party that the european parliament condemned in december 2012. in fact, this is a form of political annexation by the economy. this text is a provocation in an extremely dangerous context. europe must make the choice of peace and take the measures that will make it possible. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this legislative proposal. parliament adopted its position at first reading by adopting the commission proposal without amending it, given the urgency of the situation in ukraine. the country has been in the throes of intense political upheaval in recent months and its new government, in order to withstand external pressures and to cope with the economic and financial difficulties, must receive substantial support from the union without delay.
in writing. the report on 'the union's global approach and its impact on the coherence of the union's external action' is parliament's response to the joint communication (commission and high representative/vice-president) to the european parliament and the council on the union's global approach to external action. this report, prepared by my colleague arnaud danjean, deplores the fact that the potential of the new post of high representative/vice-president of the commission created by the lisbon treaty has not been fully exploited and calls, in particular, for the role of the holder as vice-president of the commission to be effectively strengthened. the report also notes that in future the union should develop strategies in the regions in difficulty before engaging on the ground (unlike the strategy for the horn of africa, which was defined ex post). i fully share these analyses and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. we believe that important geostrategic changes are underway in other parts of the world, including the emergence of a multipolar international scene characterised by the presence of new actors with competing regional and global ambitions, as well as increasing interdependence; the rise of multidimensional and asymmetric threats; the reorientation of us security policy towards the asia-pacific region; the growing struggle for energy and resource security; the increasingly severe consequences of climate change; and a severe and protracted global economic and financial crisis from which no eu member state is escaping. the strength of the european union therefore lies in its ability to mobilise resources across the full range of instruments at its disposal in the fields of diplomacy, security, defence, economy, trade, development and humanitarian aid - in full compliance with the provisions of the united nations charter - and that the use of these instruments within a comprehensive approach gives it unrivalled flexibility to deal effectively with the most difficult international issues and to achieve its own strategic objectives.
in writing. the union, if it is to assume its role as a major diplomatic and military power, cannot afford to be a blunder. the absence of a european presence in mali in the early stages of the conflict and the reservations of our partners about intervening in the central african republic prove that the copy in the field of foreign policy must be urgently revised. the european union has the tools to play its role as a power in conflict zones and in the rest of the world: diplomatic, military, humanitarian, trade and development instruments. but it is undeniable, in the light of recent events in africa, that it suffers from unpreparedness and an unfinished strategy. if we want the eu's overall approach to foreign policy to work, it is imperative that we review our strategies upstream so as not to leave room for fumbling once they are put to the test on the ground. coordination between member states is therefore essential and this role belongs to the high representative whose potential is not fully exploited. however, without genuine political will on the part of the member states to develop european defence, it is likely that we will see a strengthening of the eu in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need for the european union to have a comprehensive approach to its foreign policy in order to respond as effectively and as quickly as possible to the challenges of today's world. it is crucial to increase coordination between the relevant european institutions and to foster the development of strategies for effective anticipation and construction of the european foreign policy response. the lack of coordination and cooperation undermines both the content and the coherence of this policy. but we must also be realistic: an effective european foreign policy can only be built on the basis of a real political will, both in terms of objectives and means.
in writing. the 'global approach' advocated by this report is a pale copy of a concept forged by nato. but what is europe's strategic interest? that's the unspoken part of this sneaky move. strengthening the eu's external action and confirming the leadership of mrs ashton is tantamount to further strengthening nato by accelerating integration and cooperation with this organisation. contrary to the wishes expressed in this and other reports, the eu's international action can only be conducted in strict compliance with the un charter and international law. the emergence of an imperial europe devoted to the religion of free world trade is unbearable. this report presents an authoritarian and conflicting view of international relations on the part of the european union, which is subject to the "reorientation of us policy towards the asia-pacific region and the growing struggle for energy and resource security". for a genuine independence and a genuine autonomous external action of the eu, we advocate at least the separation of the european union and nato. in no way should development aid, which is already weak, be used for military purposes. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. the eu's external policy needs a new approach, through better coordination between the european institutions and the member states, and effective use of external policy tools. the eu's failure to respond in a coherent way to many recent conflicts has damaged its credibility as a global actor and provider of security. the european union must be able to mobilise its resources in the fields of diplomacy, security, defence, economy, trade, development and humanitarian aid in order to respond effectively and flexibly to international challenges. thus, there is a need for consistency between institutions, finances and practices.
in writing. with the emergence of a multipolar international scene and the increasing interdependence of states, it was time for the european union to adopt a comprehensive approach to its foreign policy. during the preparatory work it became apparent that there was a need for better coordination between the union's trade policy and its common foreign policy, and it is in this sense that this report is an added value. i can only share the desire to strengthen the policy of development and conflict prevention. the adoption of this report was necessary and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague markus pieper's report on the 2012 discharge to the european commission and its executive agencies. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. grouped under section iii and representing 95% of the european budget, the appropriations managed by the commission and its 6 executive agencies were hit hard in 2012 by this austerity and undemocratic methods. this report gives them discharge even though the court of auditors refused to certify the payments relating to this budget. it is amazing that such methods are being used by the very ones who are teaching all the nations. the legality and regularity of this budgetary implementation are therefore in question, and i am voting against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which gives the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, and the directors of the executive agencies for education, audiovisual and culture, competitiveness and innovation, consumers, health and food, european research council, innovation and networks and research for the implementation of their respective budgets for the financial year 2012.
in writing. - the court of auditors' special reports provide information on matters of interest to the implementation of the funds and are therefore useful to parliament in its role as discharge authority. the special reports of the european court of auditors also stress the importance of strengthening structural measures for farms, especially those aimed at modernisation, which are essential for greater efficiency and competitiveness. however, the provision of aid must be monitored and above all be characterised by a certain homogeneity in the different territories in view of the high level of competition in the agricultural sector of the union and the progressive liberalisation of global markets and trade.
in writing. this report welcomes the special thematic opinions that the court of auditors publishes each year to shed some light on the opacity of the budget entrusted to the european commission, known as 'section iii', which comprises 95% of the european appropriations. in these 2012 reports, the court of auditors found numerous irregularities, both in the management of the commission and by the states. it is astonishing to find, for example, that kosovo is the recipient of the largest volume of european financial aid per capita in the world. all of this is of no use in the face of record levels of corruption and state banditry in this territory. it is also pleasing to learn that slaughterhouses in the countries that have joined the eu since 2004 have between 20 and 30% of hygiene irregularities, while their meat is freely sold throughout the eu under the internal market. as interesting as this uncompromising diagnosis is, the solutions advocated are wrong and counterproductive. the report also calls for the abolition of the death penalty, and for the abolition of the death penalty. i therefore vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which recalls that the court of auditors' special reports contain information on important aspects of the implementation of the funds, which are therefore useful to parliament in the exercise of its discharge authority. it also states that the conclusions on the court of auditors' special reports form an integral part of the resolution on the general discharge procedure for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iii - commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jan mulder on the 2012 discharge for the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - the european development funds (edfs) are the main financial instrument of the european union. parliament today welcomed the court of auditors' assessment that the final annual accounts of the 8th, 9th and 10th edfs present a true and fair view of the financial position of the edfs as at 31 december 2012 and of the results of operations and cash flows for the year, in accordance with the provisions of the edf financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer. however, there are concerns about the legality and regularity of the underlying payments, as the supervisory and control systems at europeaid's central services and union delegations only partially ensure the legality and regularity of the payments.
in writing. this report gives the european development funds a free hand for the 2012 budget. these are the bodies which administer european official development aid to the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific) under the lomé and cotonou agreements. unfortunately, the report does not say a word about the very low level of these funds in relation to the union's international commitments. while it agreed to the un's 2000 target of 0.7% of gdp for development aid, europe had painfully reached only 0.4% in 2012. and the 2014-2020 budgetary programming is still further away from this, since the heads of state have adopted, with the final agreement of parliament, a further reduction in these budgets. nor does the report say a word about the disastrous effects of the liberal policies which are being imposed on the countries of the south in return for aid, in the form of an increasingly imperative 'conditionality'. finally, the report is silent on the dangers of huge delays in payment for the work of ngos, even as it stresses the importance of the 'sustainability' of aid. i therefore vote against a discharge report which misses the essential points of the budget concerned.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which gives the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds (edf) for the financial year 2012. the report also calls on parliament to approve the closure of the accounts for the implementation of these edfs for 2012. this text makes a number of observations which must be taken into account when granting discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr bogusław sonik, on the 2012 discharge of the european council and the council. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the postponement of the decision on the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the council and of the european council for the financial year 2012. in its 2012 annual report, the court of auditors made observations on the european council and the council concerning errors in the design of procurement procedures. i also agree with the part of the report which reiterates that the budget of the european council and that of the council should be separated in order to contribute to the transparency of their financial management and to greater accountability on the part of both institutions.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the council's budget is symptomatic of these methods. parliament has already refused to give him discharge for 2009, 2010 and 2011 without taking any account of it. it maintains a high degree of openness on the budget and staff of the european council. despite this blatant disregard, the rapporteur is still proposing that the discharge be postponed this time. we cannot see what improvement can be brought about by this sudden indulgence on the part of parliament in the face of the authoritarian methods of the council. i vote against it. i am aware that my vote and that of my colleagues is a travesty with no real consequences.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to postpone the decision on the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2012. it recalls that all the union institutions should be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them in their capacity as union institutions. the commission therefore stated that in the absence of answers to parliament's questions and in the absence of sufficient information, parliament was not in a position to take a decision on discharge in full knowledge of the facts, and therefore called for the postponement of discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague and friend tamas deutsch, who proposes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, to grant discharge to the european external action service, since the european court of auditors makes no comment in its report on this service.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague tamas deutsch on the 2012 discharge of the european external action service. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - today's vote gives discharge to the european external action service (eeas) for the financial year 2012. as you know, the european external action service is a newly created institution, resulting from the consolidation of a number of different services, and 2011 was its first year of operation. the report highlights that no material errors were identified in the budget by the court of auditors and that most of the problems identified in the report for the financial year 2011 have not recurred.
in writing. this report gives baroness ashton a discharge in respect of the management of the 2012 budget of the european external action service. with a budget of €180 million for its second year of existence, this inefficient service is being used for objectives that are not democratically defined. its recent action on the ukraine issue has again demonstrated its counterproductive and harmful nature to peace and european independence. the rest of the time that service is useless, produces nothing, changes nothing or anything in the world. in the logic of contractual provision, the eu should outsource its foreign policy to the us. it would cost less and the result would be the same. however, the report still proposes to strengthen the budgetary autonomy of this service, while noting that it has the highest paid senior officials and envoys in the european union. i vote against this nonsense being put to the service of interests which are totally distant from those of the people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service (eeas) for the financial year 2012. in this report, meps welcome the fact that the court of auditors found that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2012 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, overall, free from significant error.
in writing. the european parliament adopted by 386 votes to 228 with 17 abstentions my two reports on electronic identification of bovine animals and simplification of optional beef labelling. one of the key issues in these reports is to have a common technology for all european farmers who voluntarily undertake the electronic identification of their cattle. on the labelling side, we are simplifying the rules for voluntary labelling, i.e. marketing labelling, so that farmers can better communicate the qualities of their meat. i am very pleased with this positive outcome after almost two years of legislative and field work.
in writing. this text will improve the efficiency and speed of beef traceability. this modernisation of identification is a fundamental step forward in strengthening consumer confidence. i fully support this text, which is in line with my commitment to mandatory meat labelling within the european union. i particularly welcome the need for compliance with iso standards, which will enable the union to develop its trade internationally and thus to access new markets.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, which considers that competitiveness in the beef and veal sector must be preserved and encouraged. i welcome the fact that this text can contribute to improving animal and public health through a faster and more accurate system of tracing cattle. while food scandals around meat labelling and origin have been common in recent months, i very much hope that this report will increase transparency in this area.
in writing. the european parliament adopted today, in plenary session, the report on electronic identification of bovine animals. following negotiations with the council and the commission, the provisions on voluntary labelling of beef and veal are to be abolished. i voted against this report, as did my group, the greens/efa. the main reason why we voted against this text is the abolition of the current system of prior approval for voluntary beef labelling. under the pretext of administrative burdens, there will henceforth be no more control by the authorities over this voluntary labelling, which is crucial for informing consumers about quality aspects, such as rearing conditions or animal feeding.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sophie auconie on the electronic identification of bovine animals and the labelling of beef. the report aims to amend the current identification system by providing for the optional introduction of electronic identification of bovine animals in order to strengthen food safety and the protection of animal health in the union, promote the competitiveness of the sector and simplify procedures relating to animal passports and farm registers. the report also proposes to harmonise the labelling practices. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. parliament adopted on 2 april the report on the electronic identification of bovine animals. the report aims to adopt a common technology for all european farmers who voluntarily undertake the electronic identification of their cattle. as the technology in this field is developing rapidly and its use is becoming more widespread, it is necessary to adapt the legislation in order to recognise electronic identification of bovine animals as an official means of identifying those animals. this technology has a wide range of benefits for its users, particularly in terms of traceability and herd management. however, electronic identification should remain optional in order to avoid excessive financial burdens for small producers. while i have been committed for several months to better labelling of the origin of meat, i voted in favour of this measure which will allow for more precise traceability of animals and thus guarantee better consumer protection.
in writing. the text aims to introduce electronic bovine identification (eid) on a voluntary basis and to simplify the rules on voluntary beef labelling. the aim is to improve the traceability of cattle while ensuring that farmers are not burdened with administrative burdens. however, the issue of labelling cloned animals, which is being called for by parliament and ignored by other eu bodies, remains open. this is problematic, especially since the text also aims to give the commission new powers in this area (delegated and implementing acts) under the lisbon treaty. for these reasons i am voting against.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement reached in the trilogue on this regulation. the latter will amend the current system by providing for the optional introduction of electronic identification of bovine animals, while allowing each member state to make it compulsory on its territory. this electronic identification system will make it possible to improve the traceability of animals and meat and thus offer greater food safety to consumers. the aim is also to reduce current administrative procedures, which will bring many benefits to the sector: competitiveness, faster controls, better outlets and reduced labour costs.
in writing. food safety must be guaranteed within the european union. this is why all measures to increase food protection must be supported. the case of beef was a clear example of food insecurity during the 1997 bovine spongiform encephalopathy crisis. we cannot go back to a situation where many cattle in the union are contaminated. electronic identification will provide more reliable data and will enhance traceability and thus food safety. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. it supports the adaptation of existing legislation to harmonise technical standards for electronic identification and proposes a voluntary approach to the introduction of this technology.
in writing. i voted against this report by the french udi sophie auconie. whereas until now only ear tags have been considered as an official means of identification to ensure traceability of cattle, making electronic identification compulsory and creating a single labelling system within the european union could increase the traceability of beef and thus facilitate consumer information while facilitating the work of farmers. unfortunately, after months of negotiations, the proposals are not satisfactory, particularly as regards the labelling of beef from cloned animals and their offspring. while a large part of the political groups in the european parliament (s&d, greens and gue/ngl) strongly demanded this measure, no guarantees were given in this respect and the rapporteur, followed by the majority of the parliament, chose to conclude an agreement without taking this requirement into account. not requiring the traceability of cloned animals and their descendants is not the best way to guarantee the food security of european citizens, quite the contrary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr tamas deutsch, on the 2012 discharge of the court of justice. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - by voting in favour, i expressed my intention to grant the registrar of the court of justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012. the rapporteur also noted that the court of auditors found that the court of justice of the european union had no significant weaknesses in the audited aspects of human resources and procurement.
in writing. this report gives the court of justice of the eu a discharge in respect of the implementation of its 2012 budget. compared with the chaos in the budgets managed by the commission, the court's management is a model of seriousness and clarity. the report notes, however, some statistical gaps in the court's activity reports. he also points to the size of the translation expenditure in the court's budget, given the need to work in the 24 official languages of the union. i deplore this pressure on translation expenditure which can only lead to a decline in equality between the official languages, as is already the unfortunate trend in the work of the commission and parliament. in order not to endorse this new austerity obsession, i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which agrees to grant the registrar of the court of justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the court's budget for the financial year 2012. in this report, meps welcome the fact that the court of auditors found that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2012 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, overall, free from significant error. they also note that the court of auditors did not find any significant deficiencies in the audit of the human resources and procurement areas for the court of justice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague tamas deutsch on the 2012 discharge of the court of auditors. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. this report gives the court of auditors a clean bill of health for the management of its 2012 budget. i regret that the certification of his accounts is entrusted to a private firm in the city, closely linked to the world of finance and its interests. under the guise of independence, the budget of a european institution is thus audited by the same body which certifies the accounts of 14 cac 40 groups, several of which have been noted for their exploits in tax evasion. on the contrary, only a public body under the control of parliament should be empowered to certify the court's accounts. this precedent of 'privatisation' of the certification of public accounts is all the more serious as it is currently used as a model by the most liberal to demand that the vultures of private financial auditing certify the accounts of the states. however, it is this method that has allowed the greek public accounts to be manipulated for the benefit of speculators. finally, i regret that this report advocates an increasing role for the court in the evaluation of expenditure performance. the court should not be drawn into the austerity service in this way. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the secretary-general of the court of auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the court's budget for the financial year 2012. in this report, meps welcome the fact that the court of auditors found that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2012 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, on the whole, free from significant error.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague bogusław sonik on the 2012 discharge of the economic and social committee. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - the european parliament, by its vote today, grants the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee (eesc) for the financial year 2012. noting that the 2012 budget implementation rate of 96,8% is higher than that of 2011 (95,4%), but still below the 98% of 2010, the eesc calls for further improvement in budget implementation rates in the coming years.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget of the economic and social council is suffering from this austerity as well as others, as it was reduced in volume in 2012. the report recommends that this budget be further restricted in the future and also calls for lower translation costs. i vote against this blind austerity logic.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee (eesc) discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee's budget for the financial year 2012. in this report, meps welcome the fact that the court of auditors found that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2012 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, overall, free from significant error. they also note that no significant weaknesses were identified when the court of auditors audited the human resources and procurement areas for the eesc in its audit.
in writing. - today's vote gave the secretary-general of the committee of the regions a discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2012. the report notes with satisfaction that the budget implementation rate of 98,2% represents an increase compared to the 2011 rate and further improvements are expected for subsequent periods. parliament also welcomed the proposals for the committee's internal organisation, which aim to promote cooperation between departments and develop synergies in joint activities and joint actions. it welcomed the information provided, with reference to last year's recommendations, and asked to be kept informed of the projects and the financial implications of the measures taken.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge would enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. but the commission and the council take almost no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is the impotence of parliament in the eu. the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner. therefore, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the committee of the regions budget is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which agrees to grant the secretary-general of the committee of the regions (cor) discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee's budget for the financial year 2012. in this report, meps welcome the fact that the court of auditors found that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2012 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, overall, free from significant error. they also note that no significant deficiencies were identified when the court of auditors audited the human resources and procurement areas for the cor in its audit.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague bogusław sonik on the 2012 discharge of the european ombudsman. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2012. parliament noted that the ombudsman's budget was purely administrative and welcomed the improvement in its implementation rate. parliament also approved the improvements in financial planning to ensure more efficient budget implementation and called for this action to be continued in the next financial years.
in writing. parliament should ensure that all the european institutions and agencies respect the budgetary commitments made. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses this type of discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. shameful management if there is one. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. this vote is a sham. as the budget of the european ombudsman is only one component of the european budget for 2012, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which agrees to grant the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of his budget for the financial year 2012. in this report, meps welcome the fact that the court of auditors found that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2012 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, overall, free from significant error. they also note that no significant deficiencies were identified in the court of auditors' audit of the ombudsman's human resources and procurement related areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague bogusław sonik on the 2012 discharge of the european data protection supervisor. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. the commission and the council take almost no account of parliament's votes, including when it refuses discharge. the vote is therefore a hollow ritual with no real purpose. it is a symptom of the degradation of parliament in the european union. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european data protection supervisor is only one component of the european budget for 2012, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which agrees to grant the european data protection supervisor (edps) a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. in this report, meps welcome the fact that the court of auditors found that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2012 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, overall, free from significant error. they also note that no significant deficiencies were identified when the court of auditors audited the human resources and procurement areas for the edps in its audit.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the 2012 discharge on the performance, financial management and control of the agencies of the european union. the agencies play a very important executive role, directly involving european citizens. the role of the executive agencies is to assist the commission in managing union programmes on behalf of the union itself. the decentralised agencies were created with the main purpose of performing technical, scientific or supervisory tasks in order to assist the eu institutions in the formulation and implementation of eu policies.
in writing. this is a vote without any real purpose. it is a formal rite, because the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, including when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is unacceptable. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. this report presents a cross-sectional analysis of the budgets of the countless european agencies created in recent years. they're just like the rest of us, suffering from austerity. far from questioning the lawless proliferation of these agencies, the report extols their independence. and he prefers to invent complex mechanisms for sharing and reducing costs between agencies. i deplore this undemocratic bureaucratic approach and therefore vote against this discharge and against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2012: performance, financial management and control. in this report, we measure the role of agencies in supporting eu policies from the initial phase to their implementation. we advocate the wider use of this expertise and capacity in the relevant phases of the european semester political process. however, we believe that in order to ensure their proper functioning and to make the best use of the resources at their disposal, the agencies should seek synergies, exchange good practice and share services.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. another vote for nothing ! the commission and the council do not take parliament's votes into account, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the european union. the 2012 budget has once again been executed in a chaotic manner, and any discharge for this year would be immoral. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is certainly less austere than others because this agency has just been created. however, it is facing major difficulties in using up its credits. i regret the fact that european public administrations are divided into multiple agencies, which increases the management difficulties. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the financial year 2012, the committee on budgetary control calls on the european parliament to grant the director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the body of european regulators for communications. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the referral of the decision on discharge to the administrative director of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. parliament regrets that the commitment appropriations, amounting to eur 61 500 (10% of the total committed appropriations carried over), do not correspond to legal commitments and are therefore irregular. it therefore invites the agency to take measures to prevent similar situations in the future and to report on the measures taken by 1 september 2014.
in writing. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications is certainly less austere than others because this agency has just been created. however, it is facing serious budgetary management difficulties to the extent that the report proposes to postpone discharge. i regret the fact that european public administrations are divided into multiple agencies, which increases the management difficulties. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls on the european parliament to postpone its decision on the discharge to be given to the administrative head of the authority for the financial year 2012. we therefore postpone the closure of the agency's accounts and will make a number of recommendations in addition to those contained in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge for the translation centre for the bodies of the union. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i hereby approve the discharge to be given to the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2012. parliament notes with satisfaction that the level and nature of transfers remained within the limits of the financial rules in 2012 and therefore welcomes the centre's sound financial planning.
in writing. the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the union is also affected by this austerity, as it was reduced by 5% in 2012. this is surprising, since there is still a large unmet need for translation. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. i vote against this austerity drive.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the centre discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the centre's accounts. we would, however, like to make a number of recommendations which should be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european centre for the development of vocational training. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - today's vote has granted the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2012. the centre's role in promoting vocational education and training (vet) in the union is essential at a time when new methods of training are needed. the centre is making a key contribution to policies that aim to use the potential of fpis to support economic development and to ease the transition from learning to working life, especially in the context of economic recession.
in writing. the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training is also being cut as the budget allocated to it by the european union is being reduced. this means that the body is forced to seek an increasing share of private own resources, which may be at the expense of its independence, which is vital in vocational training and certification. i vote against this austerity drive. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. but the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. because that year the commission and the council managed to put 1 billion surpluses in reserve and carry them forward, whereas the eu had accumulated 16 billion unpaid. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the centre discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of cedefop's accounts. we do, however, make a number of recommendations which must be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european police college. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget for the european police college is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which agrees to grant the director of the college discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the college's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of cepol's accounts. we do, however, make a number of recommendations which must be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european aviation safety agency. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. disagreeing with the deregulation this reform leads to and the deletions of posts at the expense of the security it entails for the national regulators, i am against it. the budget of the european aviation safety agency is partly exempt from these methods as it increases sharply to accompany the establishment of the 'single european sky'. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts. we do, however, make a number of recommendations which must be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european asylum support office. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european asylum support office is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the office discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the office's accounts. we do, however, make a number of recommendations which must be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european banking authority. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european banking authority is only one component of the european budget for 2012, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the authority's accounts. we do, however, make a number of recommendations which must be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european centre for disease prevention and control. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - the house voted today to grant the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2012. during the debate on the report some additional clarifications were requested, but in substance parliament is satisfied with the financial management of the centre.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control is only one component of the european 2012 budget which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the centre discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the centre's accounts. we do, however, make a number of recommendations which must be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european chemicals agency. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - the european parliament, expressing its satisfaction with the work carried out by the agency in implementing the union chemicals legislation within its legal role and responsibilities, approves the closure of the accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2012.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget for the european chemicals agency is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts. we do, however, make a number of recommendations which must be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european environment agency. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - taking into account that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012 and that the transactions underlying the agency's annual accounts are, in all material respects, legitimate and regular, the european parliament approves today the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european environment agency is only one component of the european budget for 2012, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts. we do, however, make a number of recommendations which must be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european fisheries control agency. we are voting to certify that the funds allocated for 2012 have been used correctly. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - the european parliament, recognising the importance of the tasks carried out by the european fisheries control agency and praising the effectiveness of its work, grants, by today's vote, the discharge to the executive director of the european fisheries control agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european fisheries control agency is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts. we do, however, make a number of recommendations which must be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. - budgetary control efforts during the financial year 2012 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,30% and the payment appropriations execution rate was 88,00%. noting that the amounts committed and paid in 2012 increased by 2,1% and 8,6% respectively compared to 2011, the european parliament grants the executive director of the european food safety authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european food safety authority is only one component of the european budget for 2012, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the authority's accounts. we do, however, make a number of recommendations which must be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today to approve the closure of the accounts of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2012. welcomes the fact that the institute has adopted a number of short- and long-term measures to improve budget planning and implementation and to ensure a satisfactory budget implementation rate;
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european institute for gender equality is only one component of the european budget 2012 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the institute discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the institute's accounts. we do, however, make a number of recommendations which must be taken into account when the discharge is given, in addition to the general recommendations in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. - parliament played an important role in the establishment of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, which, together with the european banking authority and the european securities and markets authority, is one of the three economic and financial supervisory authorities still in the process of being set up. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which agrees to grant the director of the authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the authority's accounts.
in writing. - calling on the european institute of innovation and technology to communicate the results and impact of its activities on european citizens in an accessible way, in particular through its website, parliament today approved the report giving discharge to the director of the institute for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the institute discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable, but that it had not been able to gather sufficient and appropriate evidence to support the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, we approve the closure of the institute's accounts.
in writing. - the european medicines agency plays a strategic role in protecting and promoting public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicines for human and veterinary use. having regard to the opinion of the committee of the regions of 18 february 2012 on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of iceland on the participation of iceland in the european community programme 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) ',
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget for the european medicines agency is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which agrees to grant the discharge to the executive director of the agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. however, i must note that there are some doubts about the observations made by the court of auditors regarding the ongoing situation in which the observatory bears the cost of some eur 200[nbsp ]000 per year for unused offices and i therefore ask that the matter be resolved as a matter of the utmost priority and as soon as possible.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is only one component of the 2012 european budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the observatory discharge in respect of the implementation of the observatory's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the observatory's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the observatory's accounts.
in writing. - the european maritime safety agency has a key role to play in ensuring maritime safety in europe. as you know, its powers have been strengthened following the adoption of its new basic regulation in february 2013. in this sense, today's vote is intended to emphasize once again the need to provide the agency with the financial, material and human resources it needs to carry out its tasks successfully. i therefore agree to grant the executive director of the european maritime safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget for the european maritime safety agency is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which agrees to grant the director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts.
in writing. - the european parliament today voted to approve the closure of the accounts of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2012 and welcomed the agency's decision to take all necessary measures to address the lack of transparency in recruitment procedures.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european network and information security agency is only one component of the european budget 2012 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts.
in writing. - having regard to the final annual accounts of the european railway agency, the court of auditors' report on the agency's annual accounts and the council's recommendation of 18 february 2014, the european parliament gives a discharge to the executive director of the european railway agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the railway agency is only one component of the european budget for 2012, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european securities and markets authority is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which agrees to grant the director of the authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the authority's accounts.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european training foundation is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the foundation's accounts.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work is only one component of the european budget for 2012, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts.
in writing. - having regard to the court of auditors' statement that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012, and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, parliament today approves the closure of the accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2012,
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the euratom supply agency is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions is only one component of the european budget for 2012, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the foundation's accounts.
in writing. - parliament welcomed the important work being done by eurojust in the sensitive field of judicial cooperation. having taken note of eurojust's final annual accounts for the financial year 2012, the court of auditors' report on eurojust's annual accounts and the council's recommendation of 18 february 2014, we approve today the report granting discharge to the budget and therefore closing eurojust's accounts for the financial year 2012.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the eurojust budget is only one component of the european 2012 budget which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the administrative director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of eurojust's accounts.
in writing. - europol's activities in the field of the security of our citizens and the fight against crime are very important and deserve the maximum political and budgetary support. the report put to the vote today calls on the european police office to improve its financial planning in the future, but gives a discharge to the director of the european police office for the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the europol budget is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the office discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the office's accounts.
in writing. - having examined the budgetary year of the european union agency for fundamental rights and having verified the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts and transactions, we have assessed the activity positively and approved its discharge with a favourable vote.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i shall abstain on the discharge for that budget. the votes of the members of parliament on this matter are not taken into account anyway.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts.
in writing. - at a time like this, when the issue of immigration has become a tragic emergency in our country and has become the norm, it is a priority to concentrate resources and actions in all the instruments that the eu has at our disposal to combat illegal immigration and protect the security of our borders and our citizens, while fully respecting the principles of welcome and solidarity between peoples. frontex is certainly and fully among these instruments. with regard to the discharge for the 2012 budget, the report calls on the agency to pay greater attention to the verification of sound financial management and internal control, in particular by striving to reduce the amount of carry-overs. however, it voted in favour and therefore the discharge for the financial year 2012 is granted.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders is only one component of the european budget for 2012, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable, we regret that the court was not able to express an opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts.
in writing. - having regard to the final annual accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2012, the court of auditors' report on the agency's annual accounts and the council's recommendation of 18 february 2014, approves the closure of the accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2012,
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european gnss agency is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts.
in writing. - we approved the discharge for the financial year 2012 of the artemis joint undertaking, noting some shortcomings in the financial year itself and at the same time calling on artemis to ensure that the implementation of the funds is more effective and that expenditure is reduced and the activity of the joint undertaking is more transparent for the coming years.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the artemis joint undertaking is only one component of the european budget 2012 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of artemis discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that artemis's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and its results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date were reliable, we make a number of recommendations to be taken into account when granting discharge, in addition to the general recommendations contained in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. - we approved the budget for the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2012, noting that the annual accounts for the year under review show an overall utilisation rate of commitment appropriations of 84%, while that of payment appropriations was 75%. the rate of implementation of operations was 97% for commitment appropriations and 84% for payment appropriations. there are still some concerns regarding the implementation of the activities compared to the initial plan which certainly need to be improved to meet the commitments made.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking is only one component of the european 2012 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of clean sky discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that clean sky's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and its results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date were reliable, we make a number of recommendations to be taken into account at the time of the discharge, in addition to the general recommendations contained in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. - having regard to the accounts presented by the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2012, we have ratified and given a free hand to the implementation of the budget by voting in favour of discharge.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the eniac joint undertaking is only one component of the european budget 2012 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of eniac discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that eniac's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and its results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date were reliable, we make a number of recommendations to be taken into account at the time of the discharge, in addition to the general recommendations contained in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. - after reviewing the financial statements of the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking, which covered the economic and commercial activities for the year 2012, we assessed the activity positively and approved its discharge with a favourable vote.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking is only one component of the european 2012 budget which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of the joint undertaking (ec) pch discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the ec pch for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date were reliable, we make a number of recommendations to be taken into account at the time of the discharge, in addition to the general recommendations contained in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the european union. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget for the innovative medicines initiative is only one component of the 2012 european budget which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of imi discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of imi for the financial year 2012 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date were reliable, we make a number of recommendations to be taken into account at the time of the discharge, in addition to the general recommendations contained in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. - the budget for the iter programme and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2012 was ratified by the house with a favourable vote. we noted that, after two adjustments which reduced the 2012 budget, the implementation rates for the available commitment and payment appropriations were respectively 99,9% and 94,5%.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the european union. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the iter budget is only one component of the european 2012 budget which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the director of iter discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that iter's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and its results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date were reliable, we make a number of recommendations to be taken into account when granting discharge, in addition to the general recommendations contained in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. - the financial allocation for the development phase of the sesar project is eur 2.1 billion, to which the eu, eurocontrol and the public and private partners participating in the project contribute in equal shares. for the next phase of the project, we asked the company to continue to inform the discharge authority about the implementation stage of the more than 310 r & d and management projects and present the results obtained.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. it is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the european union. as the 2012 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 16 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the sesar joint undertaking is only one component of the european budget for 2012, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the executive director of sesar discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors had indicated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that sesar's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and its results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date were reliable, we make a number of recommendations to be taken into account when granting discharge, in addition to the general recommendations contained in the draft resolution concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. this text reflects parliament's approval of the commission's new legislative framework for the fight against fraud and sets out the complementary proposals. it called for concerted and joint action by the commission and the member states in support of the european anti-fraud office in the fight against fraud affecting the union's financial interests. it is particularly well thought out to propose a computerised system for the circulation and control of products subject to a single excise duty. in short, the text takes stock of the constant increase in crossborder flows - and therefore of new risks - by referring to the introduction of common measures within the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this realistic report which stresses the need to continue the efforts made in the fight to protect the financial interests of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ines ayala sender on the annual report (2012) on the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud. this report examines the evolution of the number of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities reported and their financial implications in various areas of union action. it welcomed the positive results of the vat reform launched in 2011 and called for greater efforts to assess the performance of national revenue collection systems. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. - the protection of the union's financial interests is a key element of the eu's programming agenda to consolidate and strengthen citizens' trust and to ensure the proper use of their money. in order to protect the financial interests of the union and its citizens, an integrated approach is necessary, including strategies to combat fraud and corruption through effective, consistent and equivalent legal actions throughout the union. close cooperation with member states is therefore essential, especially in this period of financial austerity, in order to ensure adequate protection against fraud.
in writing. this report seems to be a good initiative in the fight against tax evasion. but he finally appears as a masquerade. how can anyone seriously claim to be fighting tax evasion without addressing the subject of tax havens? nor does the report contain a line on tax dumping. the report also calls on the european anti-fraud office (olaf) to communicate its findings to parliament better, whereas the main problem with this office is its total submission to the commission. finally, the commission shows the extent of its hypocrisy by asking the services to improve the collection of customs duties when the single transatlantic market would remove a major part of customs duties. the free movement of capital promoted by the european union contributes more to the development of fraud. i therefore abstained on this text in order not to endorse these mechanical bearing without consequences.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which notes that in 2012 non-fraudulent irregularities reported to the commission increased by around 6% compared to 2011, with a financial impact of around eur 2.9 billion (more than double the figure for 2011, notably in the areas of cohesion policy and direct expenditure). we note with concern that this increase mainly reflects the effect of irregularities involving large amounts, but is also due to systemic irregularities reported at the closure of programmes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in iran which welcomes the progress in the negotiations with iran, through an interim agreement which is, however, only a first step. the text nevertheless underlines the serious human rights violations that persist in the country, despite the election of a candidate considered to be moderate in the last presidential elections. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. the text focuses on important positive points, such as the approval of the interim agreement on the military nuclear issue, the lifting of sanctions, and the declared intention to re-insert iran into its regional power context. the european position expressed in this text does not bear any desire for real independence from the united states, but it is generally in the right direction. despite the many limitations of this text, i welcome the timid attempts to get out of the "method" of selective indignation and to take into account the regional geopolitical context instead of locking ourselves up in an aggressive one-on-one with iran. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in iran. we are deeply concerned about the continued and systematic violation of fundamental rights in iran, the increasing number of executions and the restrictions on freedoms. the country should release all human rights defenders, political prisoners, trade unionists and detainees incarcerated since the 2009 presidential elections. the iranian charter of citizens' rights should be fully in line with international obligations, in particular with regard to non-discrimination, the prohibition of torture and the protection of collective and individual freedoms.
in writing. iran is a country with a strong presence in the middle east region. this state has a direct influence on the stability and security of this region and the states which make it up. iran therefore has a very important role to play. the strengthening of eu-iran relations, particularly on human rights, and the desire to hold peaceful negotiations on the nuclear issue are steps that are pushing iran to take responsibility and to behave as an example. this motion for a resolution expresses in a balanced way the attitude to be adopted towards iran and that is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
mr president, it so happens that when the interpretation of article 50 was included in our rules of procedure, it was a case like the one we have today. that is to say, a case where the committee on employment and social affairs had exclusive competence and shared competence with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. following this conflict, the committee responsible for interpreting the regulation added the interpretation which is now contained in the current rule 50, according to which, where the committee on the substance has flouted or disregarded the powers of the committee having exclusive competence over another party, the second committee - in this case the committee on employment and social affairs - may table its amendment in plenary. but it only makes sense if this amendment can be voted on. the interpretation you are now giving to the rules prohibits the committee on employment and social affairs from exercising this right. and it is in this sense, i believe, that the speech of my group's chairman should be heard and the voting list corrected.
mr president, we cannot be complicit in the sham, because this report is there as if to relieve the majority groups of the historic opportunity they had to assert the powers of parliament vis-à-vis the council, in accordance with the prerogatives provided for by the lisbon treaty. how many times have we not heard that parliament has a veto, that this budget is bad and that parliament will stand by it. we know what happened in the end: this budget was approved, albeit with some marginal concessions. if parliament had stood its ground, we would not have had this kind of debate and this kind of resolution.
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, i am pleased to note, as most of us here are - with the exception of a few minor dissonant notes - that we have succeeded in bringing to fruition the commission's courageous proposals, which you, commissioner, have put forward with great determination. this work by the parliament and the council reflects a genuine political will to achieve greater efficiency in the economic action of the european union. the efforts of all those who have helped to get these texts ready before the end of this parliamentary term and who have managed to respect an ambitious timetable in a very difficult economic context should be commended. we have succeeded in finalising, during this mandate, the pillars of banking union, namely the banking supervision mechanism, the resolution system with a single resolution fund and the deposit guarantee mechanism. the ultimate aim of all these texts is to restore the confidence of european citizens in the banking system and to protect them against the risks of bank runs. they are the culmination of all the parliamentary work carried out under this mandate on financial regulation, which should help to keep the financial system in check, avoid the emergence of new systemic crises and put finance and banks at the service of the economy. we have succeeded in overcoming our differences on the broad or narrow conception of european supervision, or on the system of pooling deposit guarantee. all this is the result of a collective will, for most of us, to find better solutions, and you, commissioner, have played a large part in this. today's debate is, if i may say so, the icing on the cake of an exemplary regulatory activity.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, at a time when the european union is experiencing an excess of unemployment with 26 million unemployed, it is time to tackle the banking excesses which have led to an unbearable state of public finances. i am glad that we adopted these absolutely major aspects of the three-pillar banking union at this session. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr hökmark on his report, which sets out the procedure to be followed when a banking institution is in difficulty and has to restructure its activities. the aim is simple: to ensure that european taxpayers and savers are no longer on the front line to rescue banks in difficulty, as of 1 january 2016. the shareholders and creditors will be the first to bear the losses incurred by the banks. the adoption of my colleague peter simon's report will now bring the deposit protection regime into line. in the event of bank failures, eu citizens will be able to recover up to €100,000 of their savings within seven days. it is a promise that has been kept for a long time, and it is now a reality. last but not least, the report by my colleague elisa ferreira. this is where we really get into trouble. it has been a battle for months and i welcome the support and the dynamism that my political group has brought to this debate. we have thus demonstrated that there is a european dimension which makes it possible to go beyond the approaches of certain member states, to have a real banking union, to destroy the pernicious link between bank debt and public finances. it's a real innovation, and it's finally allowing us to get some investment going. i would like to thank the commission for allowing us to tackle the real issue that concerns our citizens: investment that creates jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation, which is one of the major pillars of banking union, drawing lessons from the crisis and ensuring that in future the debts of banks will no longer be paid for by taxpayers. under the banking union, euro area countries will share a single resolution fund, financed by the banks themselves, of €55 billion. the text on the single resolution mechanism reduces political interference in decision-making: thus, when a bank is in difficulty, decisions on how to proceed will be taken mainly on the basis of technical grounds, allowing for a rapid, fair and coordinated response.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague elisa ferreira on the single resolution mechanism, as part of the legislative package on the 'banking union'. the regulation aims to complete the single supervisory mechanism within the banking union by creating a european resolution authority for the prevention and management of banking crises and a resolution fund fund funded by contributions from the banking sector. the text was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. this text is part of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm). in order to avoid a bank failure, the text provides that a single resolution board (srb) is to put in place a recovery plan for the institution concerned either by internal recapitalisation or by external capital injection from the european stability mechanism (esm), or from the states or the ecb. the troika is thus established as the ultimate saviour of the european banking sector. there is no need to make private shareholders pay first. the text also establishes a single bank resolution fund to guarantee deposits. but make no mistake, this guarantee fund is not one of them. these are national funds with mutual loan obligations. it is not a european solidarity fund: it is simply a generalization of the national deposit guarantee schemes, which are already in place in some countries and are backed by banks. the text does not therefore change the speculative practices that feed the crises, but prepares to deal with the effects of the next one without addressing the causes. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which establishes uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms under a single resolution mechanism and a single bank resolution fund, and amends regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 of the european parliament and of the council.
in writing. the 2008 banking crisis caused considerable economic and social damage in europe. it is unacceptable that the european taxpayers are once again paying for the mistakes of the banks and are suffering the full brunt of the excesses of the financial sector. the single resolution mechanism, the second pillar of the banking union, will put banks, their shareholders and creditors at the forefront. the end of unconditional bank bailouts will preserve the public finances of states and will be essential to protect the savings of citizens. the report by the socialist mep elisa ferreira makes the bank resolution mechanism and the institutional rescue fund credible and effective. thanks to the involvement of the european parliament, and especially the s&d group, the €55 billion rescue fund will be fully operational after 8 years, and the implementation of the bank resolution procedure will be decided in the last resort at european level, and therefore will not depend on the particular interests of the states. the banking union is a great success for europe and a historic project to bring finance to a boost and ensure the security and stability of the economy.
in writing. i supported the creation of a single bank resolution fund and the establishment of a single resolution mechanism, which are the third pillar of the banking union. a single resolution board will deal with the winding-up of euro area banks. the joint resolution fund will be financed by the banking sector and will have a budget of eur 55 billion, and parliament has also obtained a supply of the fund within 8 years instead of 10 years, the original deadline. it is therefore no longer the states that will be contributing in the event of a crisis but this fund. the package of measures adopted builds the future banking union and aims to restore european citizens' confidence in the banking system.
in writing. i voted in favour of the weidenholzer report which focuses on consumer protection in public services and targets in particular four areas: energy, postal services, telecommunications and public transport. in the energy sector, it stresses the need for an open, transparent and integrated energy market, improved procedures for changing suppliers and better information for consumers on prices and contractual changes. as regards telecommunications, it reaffirmed the importance of the digital single market and the need to make it easier for consumers to switch suppliers. finally, in the field of public transport, it emphasises the need for multi-modal transport to meet the needs of the ageing european population and of people with reduced mobility.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on consumer protection in public services, as it aims to provide the european commission with ideas and action in four areas in particular: energy, postal services, telecommunications and public transport. the emphasis is on the need for an open, transparent and integrated energy market, on strengthening consumer rights (facilitating supplier switching, more information on prices and contract changes) and on the importance of establishing a digital single market. the report also stresses the need to take account of the ageing population and the needs of people with reduced mobility in the field of public transport. i regret, however, that any reference to the establishment of a european system of collective redress has been removed. the creation of such a system, including all the safeguards necessary to avoid abusive or unfounded requests, seems to me to be essential in order to strengthen the protection of consumer rights.
in writing. public services are services "essential to the life and social and cultural participation of citizens". "public service" is the unpronounceable word? the report does indeed note the successive liberalizations in the fields of energy, telecommunications, transport and postal services. it demonstrates the failures of this policy, which leads to 'the dismantling of existing structures to the detriment of consumers, price increases, a complication of contractual conditions and job losses'. but the socialist rapporteur's conclusions are the opposite. the state would be there just to limit the damage! while the liberalisation of public services should be questioned, the report considers that it is the role of the private sector to cover, instead of public services, profitable markets and the state remote or disadvantaged and 'unprofitable' territories and populations. these solutions are appalling. i abstain in order to encourage the denunciation of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out the measures needed to improve the accessibility and quality of services provided by public utilities. the need for regulation and optimisation has been particularly acute as a result of the crisis. the public service is under considerable financial pressure and may therefore no longer be able to fulfil its mission of providing the universal service to disadvantaged groups, or only to a more limited extent. their function as social stabilisers is also threatened, which reduces the level of social inclusion. based on these challenges, this report helps to describe factors limiting universal access to public services and to examine how to take consumer needs into account in an appropriate manner.
in writing. this text deals with technical standards applicable to vessels sailing on inland waterways (rivers, estuaries, etc.). the main aim of the directive is to harmonize the technical rules applicable to these vessels, which are now different from those for vessels sailing on the rhine. the parliament's report requires the commission to set rules by 2017 for liquefied natural gas (lng) vessels. this is a good thing, because lng is less polluting than conventional fuel. but it's too late. the fleet in inland waters is renewed very slowly. so every year that passes is a missed opportunity. the directive could have been a real leap forward in the ecological conversion of the fleet. with the exception of lng, this issue is not even mentioned. i'm holding back in the face of such lack of ambition.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which will allow the adoption of a single and uniform set of technical standards applicable to inland waterway vessels. this legislative framework will provide greater legal certainty, ensure that adaptations to technical progress are implemented within a reasonable timeframe and ensure that high safety standards are maintained on all inland waterways in the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to improve the detection and prevention of customs fraud, in the best interests of the european consumer. customs fraud is on the increase and it is essential that citizens today have access to safe and genuine products on the european market. to achieve this, we need to step up the exchange of information between member states and with the european commission, to fill the gaps in existing detection systems, while respecting fundamental rights.
in writing. this text adapts a 1997 regulation to make the fight against customs fraud more effective, particularly in the area of origin and misdeclaration of import or export transactions. the text aims in particular to strengthen the investigatory powers of customs officers. however, the stated objective of strengthening the means of combating fraud is largely incompatible with the external trade and customs policy as practised by the commission. the new eu customs code (customs 2020 programme) continues to place fluidification and market penetration as the first objectives of the union. the main consequence of this is customs dumping by some member states, which attract customs clearance on their territory by limiting controls. the commission is not at all discouraged by these practices. the strengthening of the means of combating fraud thus appears to be a minimum objective and in reality the control system as intended by the commission, which reserves a very limited place to physical control, fits very well into its liberal logic. the whole text is a sham to justify the state of the frontiers. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which will improve the detection, prevention and investigation of customs fraud by intensifying the exchange of information and available evidence and improving the functioning of the system in place.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to provide the union with a comprehensive external policy on public procurement. with the growing weight of emerging economies, the unequal conditions of competition are creating many problems, and i therefore welcome the fact that the union has reached such an agreement, which will undoubtedly develop the internal market while preserving a certain level playing field between the stakeholders.
in writing. the proposal is a codification of the legislative acts relating to 'information procedures in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services'. codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. i am in favour of making european law more accessible, i am in favour of that.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council directive laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services (codified text). the advisory group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission is of the opinion that the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of existing texts without any change in their substance. in this report, the european parliament adopts its position at first reading in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure by adopting the proposal of the european commission as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. the arbitration agreement set out in this text provides a legal framework for the elimination of double taxation in the event of (upward) adjustment of profits of associated enterprises. due to the accession of croatia to the european union in june 2013, adjustments are necessary to proceed with its accession to this arbitration convention. i voted in favour of this text which will reduce the tax burden on taxpayers. it will also improve the conditions for crossborder activities within the internal market. the whole of the european union thus benefits from the harmonisation of european law in all the member states.
in writing. following croatia's accession to the union, it can thus accede to certain conventions and protocols of the european union. in this case, the aim is to enable it to become a party to the convention establishing a court of arbitration between states in cases of double taxation in the event of correction of profits of associated undertakings. the aim is to avoid double taxation of undertakings in different member states as a result of an upward adjustment of the profits of one of these undertakings in one member state. it would be more useful to strengthen controls on the taxation of community enterprises instead of relaxing taxation rules. i am opposed to croatia's membership and i am symbolically voting against any measure that would perpetuate it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which endorses the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 23 july 1990 on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises. parliament called on the council, when fixing the date of application of the convention, to take account of parliament's concerns regarding the need to minimise the tax burden on taxpayers.
in writing. with the creation of the public-private partnership shift2rail, this text aims precisely at a better coordination of community investments in research and innovation in the railway sector. i particularly welcome the objectives of improving energy efficiency and increasing the reliability and punctuality of rail services. this is a timely measure, complementing the vote on the railway package in february.
in writing. the proposal aims at the creation of the shift2rail joint undertaking as a public-private partnership. the aim of this undertaking will be to stimulate and better coordinate investment in research and innovation in the railway sector. of course, all this is being done in the context of the creation of a single european railway area governed by free and undistorted competition. i am opposed to this new stage in the liberalization of the railways. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which advocates a coordinated approach to research and innovation in the rail sector, by proposing the creation of a shift2rail joint undertaking to support the completion of the single european railway area and to strengthen the competitiveness of the eu rail sector in relation to other modes of transport and in relation to foreign competition. the main advantage of the creation of a joint venture is that the coordination, programming and implementation of research and innovation activities would be the responsibility of a single and specific administrative structure, ensuring greater continuity and less fragmentation of research and innovation efforts.
in writing. despite its undeniable advantages in terms of safety, environmental protection and mass transport, the share of rail transport in europe is stagnating or even declining. the offer must therefore be made more attractive, in particular by increasing research and innovation in this area. but this has a cost which only a pooling of efforts can help to ensure. i therefore supported the launch of the shift2rail joint venture, which will bring together industrialists and policy makers. with €920 million until 2020, almost equally contributed by the commission and the private sector, i am sure that this initiative will bring progress to our railway system, whether in terms of infrastructure, management or freight.
in writing. mr mirsky is being sued by two latvian far-right figures for remarks he made in the european parliament's chamber in april 2011. he said: "in latvia, where more than 40 [nbsp] percent of the population is russian-speaking, it is possible [to close russian schools]. what do you think will happen if russian schools are closed in latvia? i tell you, the country will be ravaged by civil war". as i was in france, mr mirsky is a victim of the instrumentalization of his country's national justice system by fascist political groups seeking to de-demonize themselves. not only do his words not merit any prosecution, but i think it is useful to recall them today, at a time when ukraine is facing a similar situation - with consequences similar to those predicted by mr mirsky for his own country. i agree with him and join him in denouncing the influence of neo-nazis in his country. the gallo report defends the immunity of mr mirsky. i vote for it.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide vocational reintegration assistance to workers made redundant by an italian company specialising in the sale of household appliances. the fund is thus helping a region whose economic health is particularly fragile. the unemployment rate in lazio actually went from 8.5% in 2009 to 10.8% in 2012. it is appropriate to provide an incentive for recruitment to these workers as one of the instruments to facilitate their reintegration into employment.
in writing. the globalisation fund is doing its job well. instead of helping workers, it encourages companies and governments to submit to the dictates of liberal thinking. an example is the italian company vdc technologies spa, a manufacturer of television sets and receivers. 1[nbsp]164 workers at vdc technologies and one of its suppliers were laid off. the application concerns 1[nbsp ]146 of these workers made redundant to finance vocational guidance/skill assessment, training, service to persons, support for entrepreneurship, recruitment bonus or participation allowance. the spanish authorities question the globalisation and the opening of the eu market to competition, in particular from china. but without daring to speak of a possible solidarity protectionism which would put an end to social and ecological dumping. i abstain in order not to deprive italian workers of this fund.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the amount of eur 3[nbsp ]010[nbsp ]985 in commitment and payment appropriations to assist italy facing redundancies in the manufacturing of technological equipment. the european parliament recalls that the assistance provided by the egf should only co-finance active labour market measures leading to long-term sustainable employment.
in writing. by mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund, the text promotes measures for the reintegration of workers made redundant in an andalusian car company. this is a legitimate decision in a country where the automobile sector is particularly affected by fierce global competition. the hundreds of redundancies in this region are directly linked to a reduction in the european union's share of world car production and the rapid growth of asian markets.
in writing. the globalisation fund is doing its job well. instead of helping workers, it encourages companies and governments to submit to the dictates of liberal thinking. 300 divestments took place in the santana group and 15 suppliers. the application concerns 285 of these workers for funding on-the-job training, advice on setting up a business, and active job search assistance. the spanish authorities argue that the european car manufacturing sector is growing at a significantly lower rate than its main competitors, which translates into a decline in the union market share in this sector. but without calling into question free trade or proposing solidarity protectionism which would put an end to social and ecological dumping. i abstain in order not to deprive spanish workers of this fund.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide eur 1[nbsp ]964[nbsp ]407[nbsp ] in commitment and payment appropriations to help spain facing redundancies in the automotive sector. the european parliament recalls that the assistance provided by the egf should only co-finance active labour market measures leading to long-term sustainable employment.
in writing. the crises of recent years have shown us the need to change european legislation on deposit guarantee schemes. it is essential to strengthen the confidence of account holders in the ability of their banks to return funds promptly in the event of default. i therefore support the proposal to reduce the time taken for depositors to repay their deposits. however, it is important to allow an appropriate transitional period for member states to implement such a measure.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which endorses the negotiations between the european parliament and the council on the framework for bank deposit guarantee schemes. the deposit guarantee of banks is essential to protect depositors and to ensure the stability of the financial system. the economic crisis has highlighted their usefulness: the widespread loss of confidence has led to the successive bankruptcies of credit institutions. it was therefore necessary to revise a number of rules governing these guarantees, and we reached a balanced agreement where parliament's position was heard. all european countries will have to ensure that their credit institutions have a deposit guarantee fund of at least 0.8% of the deposits covered by the system in less than 10 years. depositors will receive clear information on these guarantees when opening an account and once a year, and the repayment period in the event of insolvency will be reduced from 20 to 7 working days.
in writing. when, despite the high level of prudential supervision, a bank has to be wound up, the relevant deposit guarantee scheme (dgs) reimburses depositors up to a certain ceiling (the 'guarantee level'), thus meeting their needs. in the context of the banking union, the various sgss are to be generalized with mutual loan obligations between the different funds. but this guarantee fund is not one of them! this is a national fund and not a european solidarity fund. if one of these funds is in difficulty in repaying savers, it can borrow from the other funds, which will be obliged to accept the loan. it is nothing more than the organization of the domino effect! without stronger regulation of banks and without the contribution of private shareholders, this mechanism is far from being in the public interest. rather than predicting the next crisis, it would be better to tackle the causes of the current one. i vote against.
in writing. i supported this report which aims to revise directive 94/19/ec on deposit guarantee schemes, with a view to guaranteeing bank account holders, in the event of their bank's failure, a faster return of their funds, better cover and more detailed information on the application of the guarantee.
in writing. the deposit guarantee scheme is the second pillar of the banking union. it will allow savers to recover their money more quickly, up to a maximum of eur 100 000 in the event of bank failures. savers will be able to recover their savings within a shortened time of 7 business days. i supported this text which therefore requires banks to feed the deposit guarantee schemes with real funds and not just commitments. in the end, all the measures voted on build the future banking union and reflect the political will to achieve greater efficiency in the economic action of the european union.
in writing. i support the promotion of alternative fuels in europe and the development of adequate infrastructure within the european union. this is because it has the dual objective of reducing our dependence on oil and of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector in order to decarbonise the european union. to do this, the european union must help to overcome the technological and commercial gaps in these infrastructures and develop a coherent strategy for alternative fuels taking into account the interoperability of transport modes.
in writing. i am pleased that the strategy to boost the use of clean fuels has been endorsed by the vast majority of meps. everyone is aware that electricity, hydrogen and gas are alternative energy sources that provide a credible answer to reducing our dependence on oil, pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. it is essential to develop electromobility and thus the electric vehicle fleet. however, this will only be possible if there are enough charging points. this regulation therefore commits member states to deploy public charging stations for the different types of fuel by 2020, 2025 and 2030 and to establish common standards in order to create a continuous sustainable transport network across europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague carlo fidanza on the establishment of infrastructure for alternative fuels. the text makes it compulsory to deploy such infrastructures, which are currently being implemented in a disparate way, with common technical standards in order to promote the interoperability of systems in europe. it also requires member states to set targets for certain infrastructures: electricity for cars and ships, hydrogen, liquefied and compressed natural gas. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to ensure the establishment of an infrastructure for alternative fuels and the implementation of common technical specifications for this infrastructure in the union. this legislation proposes the implementation of common technical specifications and the establishment of minimum infrastructures for alternative fuels for transport, namely electricity, natural gas (lng and cng) and hydrogen, so that consumers can start to adopt these alternative fuels and that industry professionals can develop and deploy them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the weights and dimensions of passenger cars. this report is satisfactory in that it highlights the objectives of the commission's white paper on a competitive and resource-efficient transport system. it emphasises the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in particular those of carbon dioxide (co2), by 60% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels and by 20% by 2020. i voted against amendment no 70, which does not correspond to my vision of combined transport.
in writing. the vote on this text will allow the amendment of the legislation on the maximum weights and dimensions of road transport vehicles. the effort to reduce energy consumption in road transport by new aerodynamic measures for heavy-duty vehicles is noteworthy. however, i supported the rejection of the cross-border movement of these mega-trucks. a more detailed impact study is needed to assess their impact not only on the environment but also on road safety.
in writing. the proposal aims to limit pollution from buses and lorries. the text proposes, in particular, that account be taken of the aerodynamics of these vehicles. the report also takes into account the question of the material working conditions of lorry drivers, which was of course absent from the commission's text. but these measures will remain a long shot until real ecological planning will make it possible to reduce road transport to rail. i am voting against, despite the progress made in the leichtfried report, while denouncing the commission's lack of ambition in reducing greenhouse gases and its approval of the ultra-long lorries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which revises directive 96/53/ec on the maximum weights and dimensions of road transport vehicles, in order to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, adapt legislation to technological change and new market needs, facilitate intermodal transport and improve road safety.
in writing. in europe, we are doing everything we can to strike a balance between environmental protection and economic competitiveness. the maximum weights permitted for transport within the european territory are therefore of considerable importance. i am glad that i have rejected the question of the free movement of mega-trucks throughout europe. before we legislate, we must be sure that the decision will not have a negative impact on the safety and well-being of our fellow citizens. citizens must be informed in advance of the impact of mega trucks on road safety, the environment and the state of our road infrastructure.
in writing. the establishment of a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit and investment firms is an important step towards greater financial stability in the european union. in particular, it is necessary that competent authorities are able to act in a preventive manner in the event of bank failures in order to avoid possible contagion effects. the proposal to encourage such institutions to have recovery plans containing measures that enable them to act rapidly to restore their long-term viability in the event of a significant deterioration in their financial situation is therefore of interest.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague gunnar hökmark on the framework for the recovery and resolution of bank failures. the text aims to put in place harmonised tools to better prevent and manage banking crises and will allow for the preparation of preventive recovery and resolution plans, through mandatory structural changes in banks and, in the event of a crisis, through the forced sale of assets or the creation of a bridge bank. i welcome the wide adoption of this text.
in writing. the commission proposal provides for european rules on bank recovery and resolution. the aim is to establish a single resolution mechanism. the parliament's report stresses the role of the member states in decision-making, in which they should be 'closely involved'. but everything depends on the ecb being independent of political power. without stronger regulation of banks and without the contribution of private shareholders, this mechanism is far from being in the public interest. rather than predicting the next crisis, it would be better to tackle the causes of the current one. i vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which harmonises national provisions on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms to the extent necessary to provide member states with the same instruments and procedures in the face of systemic failures. the objective of the proposed framework is to provide competent authorities with common and effective tools and powers to address banking crises in a preventive manner, to preserve financial stability and to minimise the exposure of taxpayers to losses.
in writing. this is the first pillar of the banking union: recovery and resolution of the failures of credit institutions and investment firms. during the economic crisis, many losses were borne by the taxpayers. from now on, it will be the creditors and shareholders who will be asked in the first place to bail out the banks or bear their failures, not public money, that is to say, taxpayer money. i supported this text, which is a real european victory. for example, in 2008, the french state had to recapitalise our banks to the tune of €120 billion; if tomorrow the same situation as 2008 happens, the state will not give a cent. the measures adopted are a victory for the construction of the banking union, they will prevent new systemic crises and put finance and banks at the service of the european economy.
in writing. the draft resolution provides for stricter rules on the depositary profession of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits). the depositary of a ucits is basically the one who keeps the accounts, manages the orders and the transactions. the text appears to be a step towards financial regulation. but ultimately, the regulation of the depository profession will not prevent speculative bubbles or rotten investments. this resolution will best prevent new cases like madoff's, in short protect banks and the financial market from fraudulent depositors. we are far from the general interest of freeing the economy from the cancer of finance. i therefore abstain on this text because of the meagre progress it contains and to show that the liberals themselves recognize the inefficiency of the market alone.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which amends directive 2009/65/ec to take account of market developments and the experience gained to date by market participants and supervisory authorities, in particular to address divergences between national provisions on depositary obligations and liability, remuneration policies and penalties.
in writing. this text promotes better access to payment account services for european citizens. in fact, consumers still too often have great difficulty opening a bank account in the internal market. it is therefore particularly important to address the lack of transparency and comparability of fees for services related to these accounts. a fee information document should therefore be provided to the consumer. moreover, it is rightly emphasised that the holding of a basic payment account should not be subject to any discrimination.
in writing. this report proposes to make access to payment accounts easier for european consumers. once again the european union is not really tackling the exorbitant powers of the banks. under the guise of harmonization, the aim is to remove obstacles to the creation of a fully integrated internal market for financial services. the aim is to remove barriers to the acquisition of retail financial products abroad in order to stimulate growth. to do this, banks will now have to provide "a comprehensive fee information document" to enable consumers to make informed choices... the financial institutions are also given a wide margin of discretion in deciding on the costs. the report also states that if a fee is charged for changing accounts, "it should be reasonable". i shall abstain, however, in order not to impede the meagre progress made in this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which amends directive 2009/65/ec to take account of market developments and the experience gained to date by market participants and supervisory authorities, in particular to address divergences between national provisions on depositary obligations and liability, remuneration policies and penalties.
in writing. i supported this text, which will allow everyone to have a basic bank account, anywhere in the union, regardless of nationality or place of residence. at present, not everyone has the chance to open a bank account in the european union: the world bank estimates that 58 million european citizens have one, and banks have various reasons for refusing to open one. in addition, many mobile european citizens still face difficulties in opening a bank account in another eu country, for example because they do not have a permanent address. finally, it seems to me that having a bank account has become an essential part of economic and social life, especially in the era of online shopping and the opening of european borders. that is why we are calling on banks to make available a basic payment account, which should make life easier for many europeans and help to complete the single market. we have also introduced provisions to make offers more transparent and comparable.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which will make it possible to set up a document informing small investors upstream of the financial products sold to them (costs, risks, return on investment). under pressure from my colleague pervenche berès, the rapporteur for the text, life insurance will also be affected by these new provisions. the company that originates the financial product should also be able to provide clear and accurate information to the consumer. in view of the possible distortions caused by the massive sale of certain financial products to uninformed consumers, action was essential to ensure informed and responsible consumer choice.
in writing. the purpose of this regulation is to enhance the transparency of investment products and make them comparable for retail clients. the aim is to promote 'financial education' for individuals rather than regulating firms in this sector. a key information document for investment products (kidip) is drawn up by the seller of the product. it should help savers to make an informed investment decision by comparing different investment products, their possible returns and risks. it is true that the customer may challenge the liability of the originator of the product by invoking an infringement of this regulation in the event that the information document is misleading or inaccurate, a middle-class practice. it is not serious to shift the responsibility for financial control onto the consumer. prospectuses against financial capital: this is the maximum of the french ps's imagination. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to develop the single market for retail banking services. the legislation will improve the transparency and comparability of information on bank charges related to these accounts, facilitate account switching, eliminate discrimination based on place of residence when opening an account and guarantee the possibility of having a payment account with basic services within the european union.
in writing. it seems legitimate to adapt the court of justice of the european union to the developments in the european union. the court of justice of the european union is subject to new requirements in the light of enlargements and the increasingly broad competences of the european union. i am therefore in favour of more judges being assigned to the court of first instance in order to cope with the increasing number of cases and to speed up the proceedings.
in writing. the number of cases pending before the court of justice of the european union is growing steadily. "despite its considerable efforts, the court is no longer able to cope with the increase in its workload". the report therefore proposes to increase the number of judges from 12 to 24 in order to monitor, among other things, recurrent cases between states and the commission. the compromise reached for the appointment of judges preserves a balance between judges appointed by the member states themselves on the basis of their knowledge of their legal tradition and appointments on the basis of broader professional competence. the strengthening of the capacity of this court is particularly necessary, especially if we consider that its overcrowding could open the way to unacceptable arbitration proceedings. i vote in favour of this increase, although it is still below the needs identified by the court itself, which asked for a reduction to 39 judges.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation amending the protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union to increase the number of judges of the general court. parliament recognises that the number of cases brought before the court has continued to increase over the years, with the result that, in the long run, the number of cases pending before the court of first instance has increased and the duration of proceedings has increased. parliament therefore proposes that the court of first instance should be composed of one judge per member state and 12 additional judges.
in writing. this report concerns the amendment of the statute of the court of justice of the european union which started in july 2012 and concerns the recruitment of additional judges and the selection criteria for their appointment. i supported this report, which is the result of a compromise reached in parliament: the current system, which provides for the appointment of one judge per member state, will remain in place, thus ensuring geographical balance, and the additional judge will be selected, irrespective of nationality, on the basis of his or her qualifications. however, the member states are not able to reach agreement on this issue at present. our vote will therefore close the first reading procedure without an agreement.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to ensure the effective deployment of the ecall service, the emergency call service, which is interoperable throughout the european union. this service will reduce fatalities and serious accidents in road accidents within the european union through faster arrival of emergency services. however, to achieve this objective, it is essential that member states put in place the necessary infrastructure. it is therefore important to ensure that data transmitted via the ecall service is used exclusively for rescue or traffic management purposes following an emergency call.
in writing. whether for business, leisure or tourism, europeans are increasingly crossing the borders of their home countries to travel to other eu countries. the idea of a european-wide onboard emergency call system is therefore a good idea. the commission, after having tried to introduce this system on a voluntary basis, wishes to make it compulsory for all vehicles. the infrastructure to receive automated calls is not ready. we are also dependent on the american gps system until the galileo system is in place, even though it is expected to be more than a year late, and not ready until the end of 2016. finally, as not all europeans speak 'globish', it would be wise to provide a permanent translation service within the ecall service. the cost of such a measure is irrelevant here: human life has no price, except that of the workers which is a "cost" for the liberals. good ideas, bad solutions, i'm not going to do it.
in writing. this report deals with the creation of an automatic warning system for car accidents. it is planned that from 2015 all passenger cars and light commercial vehicles will be equipped with an 'ecall' system, which calls the emergency number 112 as soon as there is a serious collision. in order to be operational, this system retrieves and manages the personal data of drivers, for rescue purposes only. however, the report does not explain how to protect against false alarms or the misuse and hacking of these systems to gain access to personal data of drivers. the amendments to ensure good data protection were also rejected, as was the aid to operators to set up such services. although i am in favour of road safety, the uncertainties about the protection of personal data convinced me to abstain in this vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision, which aims to ensure the coordinated and coherent deployment of the interoperable ecall service throughout the european union. road safety is one of the major elements of the european union's transport policy. in 2011, about 30[nbsp]000 people were killed and more than 1.5 million injured, for a total of about 1.1 million accidents on the roads of the european union. in this context, the ecall service can make a significant contribution to reducing the number of road fatalities and limiting the severity of injuries caused by road accidents.
in writing. with around 30 000 people dying on our roads every year, i would like to welcome the adoption of the decision on the deployment of ecall. automatically triggered in the event of an accident, this emergency call can save many lives by speeding the arrival of help. in this respect, i welcome the fact that we have preserved the possibility for member states to set up a filtering system, so as to avoid overloading the emergency call centres with requests that are more of a technical assistance matter. the implementation of ecall also requires action on vehicles to be effective. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. some manufacturers have not yet developed the ecall system on their products and therefore need to carry out the tests under appropriate conditions, a fortiori with centres capable of receiving the calls made.
in writing. the european union needs fast broadband infrastructure to support the incredible growth potential of the digital single market. the key is skilled jobs in europe and strong competitiveness on the world market. i therefore support this text, which aims to propose measures to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed electronic communications networks.
in writing. the union needs to equip itself with a high-speed communication network in order to promote the digital economy and develop efficient digital public services. investment planning to achieve economies of scale and rational implementation seems necessary. however, the report proposes that these infrastructures should be implemented by private companies. on the contrary, only a public digital and telecommunications service will be able to plan a good distribution of these networks throughout the territory, to distribute investments in an equitable way in order to bridge the digital divide and to serve the general interest. the union would like to 'encourage private sector investment in rural and remote areas'. the incentives will not be enough and as always the state will take over from the private sector for the areas that are not profitable. moreover, the risks of exposure aggravated by the proliferation of competing antennas are not even considered! i vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed electronic communications infrastructures and to increase their efficiency by extending existing best practices across the union. to this end, it defines a number of directly applicable rights and obligations at the various stages of infrastructure deployment in such a way as to bring about a significant reduction in costs.
in writing. this regulation provides new possibilities for spending money from the "reserve funds" of inland navigation (rivers, streams, etc.). these funds are managed by each state and financed by the companies in the sector. today, they can only be used in two specific cases: in the event of 'serious market disturbance' or if the organisations representing the sector unanimously request it. the balance sheet shows that not a penny has been spent. the report proposes to open up new possibilities for financing vocational training, qualification and retraining of boatmen and crews, as well as modernising the fleet 'for environmental purposes' or to improve safety, health and working conditions on board. i vote for it. one regret, however, is that nothing is being done to help the fleet adapt to the modal shift from the road to the river.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 718/1999 on a community fleet capacity policy in inland navigation with a view to promoting inland waterway transport. this legislation will make it easier for waterway carriers leaving the sector to obtain an early retirement pension or to convert more easily to another economic activity and to organise vocational training or retraining for crew members leaving the sector. it will also improve the qualification of inland waterway navigation to ensure the evolution and future of the profession.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries. it is important to increase the value of community products in a context of increased competition. we must pay particular attention to smes, which are largely in the agri-food sector. i therefore support in particular actions to guarantee the authenticity of european union products so that consumers can have confidence in their quality.
in writing. the aim of this text is to strengthen the mechanisms for advertising and promoting european agricultural products within the union and beyond. if it were only to promote products from rural, local and organic farming, that would be a good idea. but in this report, all products are eligible. the big food brands will therefore be the first to benefit. the regulation opens up the possibility of financing with european funds the promotion of processed products and not just agricultural products, including support for trade marks. in addition, the regulation sets the target of spending 75%[nbsp ] of advertising money on markets outside the eu. this is therefore a further favour to export agriculture at the expense of relocation and short circuits. one of the main objectives is to "increase the market share of european products, improve their competitiveness and open up new markets, especially in the sectors most affected by trade agreements". this text legitimizes the deregulation of the world agricultural markets and the internal market and seeks to respond to it by a race to the advertisement, a caricature of the productivist society. i vote against it.
in writing. the proposal aims to improve consumer information and the promotion of european agricultural products on the internal market and on the international scene. the aim is to encourage the promotion of distinctive labels and signs, such as protected designations of origin (pdo) and protected geographical indications (pgi) or country products. the report proposes the introduction of information and promotion measures, taking account in particular of the specific features of the outermost regions as described in article 349 of the treaty. a positive discrimination scheme is also provided for in the octs. i therefore naturally voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to extend and modernise european information and promotion measures for agricultural products. this legislation will make it possible to carry out information and promotion measures on the internal market and in third countries, which are necessary for the agricultural sector to meet the challenges it faces in a context of increasing competition and opening up of markets.
in writing. - in these times of crisis, the european agricultural sector is particularly affected by increasingly intense competition from third countries. we must all make every effort to promote the quality of agricultural products both within and outside our borders. this european quality is recognised worldwide but we must nevertheless redouble our efforts to promote these products to consumers. it has been more than 60 years since the member states of the union decided to create the common agricultural policy in order to pool certain resources and to allow substantial aid to be provided to the european agricultural sector. we should not hesitate to continue this tradition by increasing its scope. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. it highlights the need to act together to save the european agricultural sector.
in writing. the research and development programme on active living assistance is an important step forward in enabling european citizens to age in good health. encouraging the development of innovative services and products through information and communication technologies (ict) can help to improve the living conditions of an ageing population. these technologies can help to increase independence and reduce the feeling of social isolation of older people. i particularly support the emphasis on encouraging the participation of smes, the backbone of our economies, in this programme.
in writing. the proposal aims to establish the participation of the union in the programme for assistance to active life (aal). the main objective of this programme is to support market-oriented research and innovation projects for active and healthy ageing. the negative effects of the crisis on national health systems are taken into account. but the solutions are not the right ones. rather than creating programmes to overcome the failures of the states, it would be better to support national public services. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision which will allow the union to participate in the research and development programme on active life support undertaken jointly by several member states (aal programme). the purpose of this decision is to provide the legal means for the participation of the european union in the active living assistance programme (or aal programme) jointly undertaken by austria, belgium, cyprus, denmark, spain, france, hungary, ireland, luxembourg, the netherlands, poland, portugal, the united kingdom, romania, slovenia, sweden and switzerland.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this text allowing the european union to participate in the eurostars-2 programme, which aims to support smes carrying out research activities. such a programme will thus help to strengthen the competitiveness of european smes by enabling them to be more innovative.
in writing. the text establishes the participation of the european union in the eurostars-2 joint programme. the general objective of eurostars-2 is to promote, through financial support, transnational research activities targeting the market of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). all this is of course done in the context of horizon 2020 and in a 'simplification objective' which aims to 'reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burden'. support for innovation by smes is necessary, but the liberal solutions advocated are wrong and disconnected from the general interest objectives of ecological bifurcation of production. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision, which will allow the union to participate in a research and development programme jointly undertaken by several member states to support small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in research activities (eurostars-2). this decision lays down the rules for the participation of the union in the second research and development programme jointly undertaken by germany, austria, belgium, bulgaria, cyprus, croatia, denmark, spain, estonia, finland, france, greece, hungary, italy, ireland, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, malta, the netherlands, poland, portugal, the czech republic, romania, slovakia, slovenia, sweden and the united kingdom, as well as iceland, israel, norway, switzerland and turkey, to support small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) engaged in research activities ('eurostars-2') and the conditions for such participation.
in writing. - we now know that the greatest value of the european market lies in the potential for the creation of innovative technologies. this is the only way to remain competitive in the face of certain third countries which do not hesitate to use unfair methods to lower their prices. smes are pioneers in technology. their potential for innovation is enormous. but without europe's help, smes cannot achieve an optimal result enabling them to develop new technologies. by developing research and development policies targeted at smes, we are showing the rest of the world that we will not be bogged down by the crisis. europeans are determined to regain their leading position in the world economy. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. it is with this kind of policy that we will succeed in getting the european economy back on its feet.
in writing. metrology is the science of measurement. it's a vital part of the high-tech world we live in. enlightened france understood and applied this. the overall objective of the empir programme is to provide metrology solutions to support innovation and industrial competitiveness, as well as to address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy. the aim is therefore to create an integrated european metrology research system with sufficient critical mass and active engagement at regional, national, european and international level. no private participation is foreseen, as metrology is recognised as a 'public good' justifying public intervention. the liberals are incapable of managing the public interest, they admit it. for once in my life, if a vital area is not sold to the private sector, i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision which will allow the european union to participate in the european programme for innovation and research in metrology (empir) jointly run by several member states. this decision concerns the participation of the european union in the european programme for innovation and research in metrology (empir) jointly conducted by belgium, bulgaria, the czech republic, denmark, germany, estonia, ireland, greece, spain, france, croatia, italy, hungary, the netherlands, austria, poland, portugal, romania, slovenia, slovakia, finland, sweden, the united kingdom, and bosnia and herzegovina, norway, serbia, switzerland and turkey. the initiative's primary objective is to respond to the challenges facing the european metrology research system and to maximise the benefits of improved measurement solutions for europe.
in writing. the text provides for the continuation of the partnership between european countries and developing countries on clinical trials. in other words, it supports clinical research and other actions to combat poverty-related diseases in developing countries, including hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis. closer cooperation with the countries of sub-saharan africa in particular will then be established.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague vicky ford, which extends a programme of partnership between european and developing countries on clinical trials. the initiative, which started in 2003 and is being extended under the horizon 2020 framework, aims to help develop new treatments for diseases affecting developing countries, such as hiv, malaria and tuberculosis. new medicines developed will need to be safe, effective and affordable, in order to meet the needs of the countries and populations targeted. through this programme, the union is demonstrating its determination to meet the millennium development goals set by the united nations, and i welcome this. the report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. the 'european and developing countries clinical trials partnership' was set up in 2003 in response to the global health crisis caused by the three main poverty-related diseases hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis. the question is to extend it for 10 years. the rapporteur recalls that "only 10% of global research funding is allocated to the diseases responsible for 90% of the world's pathologies". it therefore proposes the most open list possible for funding research into poverty-related diseases. but the fact that these diseases are on the increase in europe can only be explained by migration. the return of malaria in greece, for example, is a symptom of austerity policies. as the only remedy, this text advocates the strengthening of private actors in research, through the development of public-private partnerships and compliance with the horizon 2020 strategy. i cannot accept that health should be subjected to the commercial world, neither in these countries nor in europe under the yoke of austerity. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision, which will allow the union to participate in a second programme, 'partnership of european and developing countries on clinical trials', jointly run by several member states. this decision concerns the participation of the european union in a second programme 'partnership of european and developing countries on clinical trials' (edctp-ii) jointly conducted by belgium, denmark, germany, ireland, greece, spain, france, italy, luxembourg, the netherlands, austria, portugal, sweden and the united kingdom, and switzerland and norway. the overall objective of edctp-ii is to reduce the socioeconomic impact of poverty-related diseases in developing countries, particularly in sub-saharan africa, by accelerating the clinical development of effective, safe and affordable medical interventions for these diseases.
in writing. it is estimated that each year about 2.6%[nbsp] of the turnover of european companies is lost in outstanding debts. there are now several instruments at eu level to facilitate the recovery of outstanding claims, but they are insufficient. the fragmentation of national debt recovery provisions allows the debtor to transfer or withdraw assets from a bank account held in one member state to another without difficulty. the proposal aims to create a new legal instrument of a precautionary nature, the oesc (european preservation order on bank accounts), which creditors can use as an alternative to national procedures. the proposal is balanced and provides for the responsibility of the applicant in the event of cancellation of the procedure. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which creates a european preservation order for bank accounts, to facilitate crossborder recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters. the aim of this legislation is to simplify the recovery of crossborder claims for citizens and businesses, in particular smes, and to make the enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters relating to crossborder disputes more efficient. the aim is to reduce the risks associated with crossborder trade, to increase the confidence of traders, to improve the payment behaviour of debtors in situations with a crossborder dimension and to encourage the development of crossborder commercial activities.
in writing. this vote is a signal for greater comparability and transparency of information published by large companies and certain groups within the european union. it provides for the obligation for certain large companies to publish relevant non-financial information in order to create a level playing field within the union. it seems to me legitimate that these companies should publish in their management report a statement which also includes information on environmental matters, personnel management and the fight against corruption. increased transparency will only increase consumer confidence in these companies.
in writing. under the guise of 'increasing the transparency' of non-financial information, the commission aims to strengthen the single market. the directive also aims to 'diversify' the composition of the boards of directors. that was a bad joke. so we learn that market virtues don't naturally grant leadership positions in an equal and diverse way, but on the basis of sex, race and education. this draft resolution is a step towards diversification only to ensure market dominance. i therefore vote against this ridiculous text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which aims to improve the relevance, consistency and comparability of information published by companies across the union. the text introduces an obligation for certain large companies to publish relevant non-financial information in order to create a level playing field for all companies in the union.
in writing. while i support the approach of this directive which aims to open legal pathways for the immigration of highly skilled posted workers, i have nevertheless opposed the compromise reached with the council because this must not be at the expense of workers' rights. i therefore opposed this compromise because it does not guarantee equal treatment between workers and could have disastrous consequences for intra-group posted workers, who could be exploited, but also for workers in the host country, who would have to face unfair competition. i voted in favour of the amendments by the committee on employment and social affairs to ensure equal treatment between posted workers and their local colleagues working in the same offices. the union cannot allow the creation of a two-tier labour market, nor the unequal treatment of employees according to their country of origin. the principle of 'equal work, equal pay in equal workplaces' must guide our action. laws should protect workers, not create loopholes to violate them.
in writing. in the case of legal immigration, it's the salami tactic. the commission classifies migrants into different categories, giving them so many different rights. so we cut the rights category by category until there's nothing left. the directive thus concerns 'the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals on intra-group secondment' of highly qualified employees. this is part of the logic of an increasingly unequal and selective immigration policy, designed only for the needs of countries that need skilled labour. nothing is done to provide for equal treatment between european workers and those from third countries. it is the continuation of social dumping, pitting workers against each other and throwing them out of the eu as soon as the work is done! i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this report which lays down the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals on intra-group secondment. failure to guarantee equal treatment between workers will have disastrous consequences for intra-group posted workers who could be exploited, but also for workers in the host country who would be subject to unfair competition.
in writing. i voted against the directive which lays down conditions for entry and residence for third-country nationals on intra-group secondment. it concerns in particular management staff for branches and subsidiaries of multinational companies, establishing transparent and harmonised conditions for the admission of this category of workers, and improving the conditions of temporary residence for posted workers and their families. today, a number of factors limit the opportunities for international companies to use intragroup mobility, estimated at 16 500 per year within the eu, representing 4% of temporary migrant workers. this directive opens up legal pathways for immigration from third countries. but the negotiations with the council have not made it possible to include equal treatment in terms of working conditions, and in particular pay, in the applicable rights. this directive has aggravated social dumping, and i therefore voted against the report. i regret that a large majority of modem and the ump did not support equal treatment.
in writing. the clean[nbsp ]sky joint undertaking is conducting research activities on green transport technologies in public-private partnerships. the commission proposal aims to create a similar company in the field of clean sky 2 aeronautics. air transport accounts for about 7[nbsp]% of all emissions produced by the transport sector and about 2[nbsp]% of total co2 emissions worldwide. the projected growth in traffic will lead to a significant increase in emissions if no action is taken. the environmental impact of air transport needs to be reduced drastically, but this will not be achieved by commodifying pollution control. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which extends the clean sky joint undertaking (ec) in the field of aeronautics ('clean sky 2'). this follows the previous clean sky joint technology initiative, set up in this field in 2008 under the seventh framework programme (fp7), both building on the results achieved under this framework and considering new technologies and new research areas. it aims to establish a clean sky 2 joint undertaking for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2024.
in writing. the role of the public authorities and the european union in the face of the environmental crisis should be to stimulate investment in innovation and the bifurcation of the productive model. there is no mention of this in the text. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the biotechnology sector is not left behind. worse, this text has all the capitalist apparatus painted green by the greenwashing proponents. to make up for their lack of ambition in environmental matters (the eu's financial contribution is limited to eur 950 million), the commission and parliament propose to make systematic use of public-private partnerships. these have proved to be both ecologically and economically inefficient. liberal blindness and the influence of industrial lobbies have defeated the ecological ambitions of the european union. i am voting against this text and in favour of ecological planning, which is the opposite of these old liberal recipes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which will set up a joint technology initiative (jti) in the field of bio-based industries. the text concerns the creation of the bio-industries joint undertaking (ec bio-industries) as a new form of public-private partnership between the commission and businesses for the purpose of implementing the bio-industries joint technology initiative (jti bio-industries). the bio-industries ce should be established for a period ending on 31 december 2024. it shall have its seat in brussels (belgium). it will be founded by the eu, represented by the european commission, and the bio-industries consortium.
in writing. the sesar joint undertaking, the research programme on air traffic management in the single european sky, is a public-private partnership. this programme aims to modernise air traffic management in europe and is the technological pillar of the single european sky which i have fought against. it is therefore one of the instruments of the liberalization of air transport. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which extends the duration of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the european next generation air traffic management system (sesar) until 2024. this extension is unavoidable given the need to continue research and innovation in air traffic management (atm) beyond 2016.
in writing. i voted in favour of the madurell report on the establishment of the second innovative medicines initiative for the period 2014-2024. imi2 is a joint technology initiative set up under the 7th framework programme. its scope is broadened: the emphasis is no longer on pre-competitive biomedical research (imi1) but on public health. this public-private partnership between the european commission and the pharmaceutical industry aims to improve the process of developing innovative medicines and new treatments. in the context of the negotiations on the horizon 2020 package, the european parliament has implemented the recommendations of the expert group on the mid-term evaluation of the seventh framework programme and the european parliament's audit report. imi 2 will cover the entire innovation cycle and will focus on research and also on the commercialisation of innovative medicines.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to create a joint undertaking for innovative medicines 2 with the aim of improving the clinical trials of priority medicines carried out within the union. it builds on a joint venture existing under the previous financial framework and at the same time reaffirms the need for bold action in the field of public health. that's what we're doing here by encouraging research into new treatments for which there's a high demand but scientific progress is slow, like alzheimer's.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague teresa riera madurell which proposes the creation of public-private partnerships on the basis of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking which was established under the seventh research programme. this new version, designed to work within the horizon 2020 framework, aims to improve the development of new medicines by supporting cooperation between academia, smes and the pharmaceutical industry. the text was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. the report focuses for once on public health and no longer on competitive biomedical research. it aims to promote the development of products for neglected diseases and those linked to poverty. to this end, it proposes to involve the research community more closely in the development of strategic research programmes. but of course the preferred model is the public-private partnership and the budget originally planned has been revised downwards. the good intentions of europe are always corrupted by money. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which extends the imi joint undertaking in the field of innovative medicines (innovative medicines initiative 2 - imi2). the purpose of this text is to create the innovative medicines 2 joint undertaking (imi2) for a period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2024. ec imi2 replaces the previous ec imi launched under the seventh framework programme.
in writing. joint ventures (jvs) are enterprises jointly controlled by at least two other enterprises, formed for the purpose of carrying out a specific project. the ec for electronic components and systems for european leadership (escel) is a public-private partnership which replaces the previous eniac and artemis ecs established respectively in the fields of nanoelectronics and embedded systems. this proposal is part of the horizon 2020 strategy, which aims to put research at the service of the market. the report does suggest some safeguards to ensure long-term investment or 'balance' in governance, but the dominance of private capital risks undermining these. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which establishes a joint venture (ec) in the field of electronic components and systems: ec ecsel (for 'electronic components and systems for european leadership'). the public-private partnership (ppp) proposal concerns a joint venture (jv) in the field of electronic components and systems. ecsel replaces the previous ecs eniac and artemis established respectively in the fields of nanoelectronics and embedded systems, launched under the seventh framework programme. this regulation defines the objectives, legal status, operating rules and statutes for the period 2014-2024 (up to 2020 for financial programming). the ecsel joint undertaking will have its seat in brussels (belgium).
in writing. to ensure the union's energy security, the union must choose a coherent and comprehensive energy mix. hydrogen is part of the clean energy of the future. its complementarity with electricity should give it a more prominent place in the community's energy policy. this text goes in that direction by extending the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking. i fully support this choice, which will serve european competitiveness, particularly in the automotive sector.
in writing. the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking is part of the energy 2020 strategy for competitive, sustainable and secure energy and clean energy and transport: europe's strategy for alternative fuels. the commission proposal aims to extend this public-private partnership. the report stresses cost reductions and the necessary reduction in administrative burden. i vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which extends the ec joint undertaking in the field of fuel cells and hydrogen ('fuel cells and hydrogen 2 pch2'). the text aims to create a joint undertaking 'fuel cells and hydrogen 2' for a period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2024. the pch2 ec replaces the previous ec pch launched under the seventh framework programme.
in writing. the european institutions must be transparent to our citizens and that is why i have approved this report on the amendment of the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register. the european parliament is expressing its regret very clearly by this vote that a compulsory register has not been established in connection with this reform. we therefore call on the commission to table, by the end of 2016, a legislative proposal for the establishment of a mandatory register on the basis of article 352 of the tfeu. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has advocated strengthening the capacity of the joint secretariat of the transparency register in order to ensure the reliability of the data provided in the register but also to better handle the procedures for alerts and investigations. it is also important that lobbyists are encouraged to register and therefore we call on all institutions and staff working in institutions to encourage such registrations and to give priority to meetings with lobbyists who are actually registered. parliament called on the commission to be very vigilant in respecting the implementation of the amendments to the interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. this draft revision of the lobby transparency register is a sham. this register, whose usefulness is already questionable, has not yet been made compulsory. and to ensure that lobbies are aware of their existence, the report allows them to organise events in the institutions. moreover, the only sanction for lobbies that do not comply with the few rules to which they are subject is to be removed from the register and thus to limit the transparency of their actions. nor does the text say a word about the de facto lobbies that are in fact churches or sects which are exempt from any transparency obligations under article[nbsp ]17 of the lisbon treaty. their action within the european institutions is, however, among the most harmful, since they place european decisions under the sway of dogma where only the rational deliberation of citizens should prevail. there are some good things in this report, such as the ban on gifts to members of parliament. the rest is purely cosmetic. i vote against this farce which is not democratic at all.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment to the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register. we wanted the following incentives to encourage lobbyists to sign the register: to encourage parliament staff and members, where a lobbying company is not registered, to encourage it to do so before meeting its representatives, to restrict access to parliament buildings for unregistered organisations and to restrict registered lobbyists from sponsoring parliament for organising events.
in writing. i strongly support the conclusions of the working group on which this report is based: this tool is a success, despite a weak legal basis. the opinions of the legal services of the two institutions (european commission and european parliament) show that, at present, eu law does not provide a solid legal basis for mandatory registration of lobbyists. we call on the european commission to propose, by 2016, a stable legislative solution which will make this registration, an essential condition for transparency, compulsory.
in writing. the tripartite social summit for employment represents the 'social' dimension of the union's policy. in practical terms, this is a meeting held twice a year before the european councils bringing together the social partners (businesseurope and the european trade union confederation), the commission, the european council and the head of state of the country holding the eu presidency. in fact, this summit does not change the policy of the union at all, because it is part of the europe 2020 strategy. the commission proposes to amend the institutional functioning of these meetings in the margins under the lisbon treaty. the role of the commission and the european council is to be defined more precisely. the report states that the summit's agenda must be drawn up jointly and 'on an equal footing' by the council, the commission and the inter-branch organisations of workers and employers. it also urged that parliament be kept informed of the conclusions of the summit. these advances are cosmetic in the service of procedures which help to maintain the illusion of a democratic image of the austerity union. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision which provides for the revision of council decision 2003/174/ec institutionalizing a tripartite social summit for growth and jobs (sst). the amendment of the 2003 decision is necessary to comply with the institutional changes introduced by the lisbon treaty. it is also appropriate to revise the overall strategic framework, replacing the lisbon strategy with the europe 2020 strategy and specifying how the osh for growth and jobs should contribute to overall governance.
in writing. - growth and employment are two elements which it is essential to restore in europe. i am convinced that it is not isolated initiatives but common strategies that will enable us to move forward in this area. the tripartite social summit for growth and employment institutionalises the dialogues between the european institutions and the social partners. it is therefore essential to preserve it. i voted in favour of this report because i am fighting for a europe close to the citizens. it is in dialogue with citizens and the social partners who represent them that the european union will take the best decisions to restore growth and reduce unemployment in europe.
in writing. it is no secret that negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework have been intense and often difficult with the council. as i myself have seen, as rapporteur for the new asylum, migration and integration fund, it will be essential, in the context of the next financial programming, to move away from a purely accounting view of the union budget, which ignores the added value of europe and contradicts the principle of solidarity in the union. i therefore strongly and convincingly supported this forward-looking report both on the findings and on the method to be considered in the future. on the basis of experience, it recommended that parliament should use all the means at its disposal and improve the arrangements for exercising greater influence on the spirit, timing and content of the negotiations with the council. it is also imperative that parliament continue to insist on a results-oriented approach which does not confine itself to a purely accounting view of the financial year but also favours a qualitative evaluation of the actions financed.
in writing. this report, which has no legislative value, summarises the criticisms already voiced in several votes by parliament against the union's 2014-2020 budget. the criticism is directed both at the content of the budget, which has been sharply reduced despite the enlargement of the union, and at the method of adoption, which has completely trampled on parliament's prerogatives. the rapporteur also points out that despite a year and a half of discussions and votes, parliament has not succeeded in moving the budgetary ceilings for 2014-2020 by one cent. finally, despite all parliament's requests, agreement was reached only in an opaque negotiation between the president of parliament, mr martin schulz, and those of the commission and the council. it is a question of why the rapporteurs do not criticise the fact that parliament has finally accepted such agreements. although these criticisms are fair and well known, i find their authors to be particularly malicious because they themselves voted for the rotten budgetary compromises that led to these disastrous results. i am voting against because, while i share these criticisms, i cannot endorse the hypocrisy of those who make them after having done the opposite.
in writing. this report serves the interests of the major political groups, who find in it a way of clearing themselves of their mistake and of all the austerity policies they have voted for. in the budget negotiations, parliament has missed a historic opportunity to oppose the council and the heads of state and to push for an increase in the european budget. the increase is necessary for the recovery of the economy, employment, regional development, agriculture and environmental protection. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020: lessons to be learned and the way forward. the report also calls for the adoption of a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and calls for the establishment of a european environmental management system.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, i am pleased that we are dealing with the issue of pensions from the point of view of the right to access them rather than from the point of view, too often promoted now, of the increase in contributions or the reduction in the retirement age. but even if we should welcome the progress of what we are going to decide today, namely the right to the portability of pensions, let us agree that the issue under consideration is limited since it is only a supplement to the right to the basic public pension by distribution. i would therefore like to reiterate my concern at the attacks made directly by the troika, or more indirectly with the commission's incessant recommendations, against these public systems with a view to increasing pensions by capitalisation. we continue to defend public systems by distribution and complementary systems against the insecurity of employee and pensioners' pensions by capitalisation. in short, we reject the large european market in capitalised pensions which is the subject of the commission's files.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would first like to thank my colleague danuta jazłowiecka for her excellent work. the differences of opinion between the eastern and western member states did not give any hope of this compromise at the beginning of our work. as my colleagues have said, the posting of workers has become a major problem within europe. the delors directive of 1996 has proved to be ineffective, poorly applied by the member states and inappropriate for current needs. in a dynamic social market economy, this directive has had to be revised to reconcile economic freedom, fair competition and the protection of employees. the sectors most affected are construction, agriculture and services, which employ underpaid workers. intermediary companies are flourishing and cascading outsourcing makes controls too few and ineffective. the agreement reached with the council will allow for more checks. it is up to our governments to ensure that these controls are numerous and effective. a system of cross-border exchange of information between inspectors exists but in the absence of rapid administrative and judicial powers, controls remain ineffective. some countries such as france need to reform their labour inspection system, but this requires that the reform be effective and that it gives inspectors the opportunity to act quickly to suspend activities and companies suspected of abusing posted workers. it is essential to reduce administrative hierarchies and centralization, and to increase the number of inspectors. unfortunately, that is not the direction of the reforms undertaken in my country. at european level, unscrupulous business leaders will also be held accountable. it's up to them to become socially responsible. let us stop saying that the european union is doing nothing to prevent social dumping. the political exploitation of this issue by the extreme right must also be combated. i would have liked to have seen the president of the national front, even for once, sit and work in our joint committee, at least on this paramount subject. the new provisions which we are voting on tomorrow will have to be implemented by our governments and efficient control systems will have to be put in place. it is their responsibility to our fellow citizens.
madam president, a few weeks before the european union is likely to raise its shield against brussels, the supporters of european integration are trying to show a different face by reinforcing the directive on the posting of workers, the most powerful symbol of this ultra-liberal and anti-social europe which the people no longer want. adopted in 1996 under the pretext of improving the freedom and protection of european workers, the posting of workers directive has in a few years become the most powerful means of aligning wages in europe with the lowest wage and implementing social dumping. within a few years, we have seen a real influx of low-cost workers in our countries. according to statistics, there are more than 500,000 unemployed people in france alone, in a country that has more than 5 million unemployed people. faced with this unfair competition, local firms have no choice but to disappear or import low-cost labour. in my region, on the dunkirk methane terminal site, as many as 40% of the employees are low-cost workers. the number of such workers is so large that the administration responsible for controlling the workforce is no longer in a position to verify whether these workers have a contract of employment or whether they are working underground. in an attempt to exonerate yourself from your tragic mistakes, you seek to amend this criminal law for the dignity and welfare of employees by allowing the states to strengthen controls. you are a hypocrite! because at the same time you are asking the states to abolish whole sections of their administration to save the euro. i have said it and i say it again solemnly: whether it is strengthened or not, the directive on the posting of workers is a terrifying social fragmentation bomb. there is only one solution: we must delete this text. that is why we shall abstain on the compromise amendment, which is a political fraud. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, the united states was not founded on immigration, it was founded on colonization and the most brutal colonization of all, since it has made disappear the peoples it has replaced. that's a first. secondly, yes, i think it is criminal for workers to be put in competition with other workers who are obviously paid 30 to 40 per cent less because of the level of social dumping, the charges that are being claimed. so, obviously, companies will have a good time going out and getting very low-cost workers. when you have 5 million unemployed people in a country, you can't afford to employ 500,000 people from abroad. 500 thousand today!
the question is "blue cardboard". do you understand, mrs[nbsp]wikström, that there is no freedom without equality that can produce any kind of brotherhood among the workers of the continent? what we are calling for is not the restriction of freedom, but the promotion of social equality. without this equality, workers are not exploited for their skills but for their competition. this is what the french, the workers, the unions and socialism refuse. do you hear it?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, must we give in to the sirens of the demagogues and eurosceptics of all stripes who want to exploit, on the eve of the european elections, this famous issue of posted workers? or should we remember the advances that compromise represents? at a time when social dumping is wreaking havoc in europe, we must respond to an emergency situation, find solutions, equip our administrations with additional means to stop fraud and social dumping. thanks to parliament's pressure, this text, which has been awaited for years, will strengthen the tools of labour inspectorates, sanctions against dishonest employers and shell companies and against the savage exploitation of low-cost workers, such as the polish workers on the epr construction site in flamanville, france, where i live. we say "never again"! of course, everything is not solved! the joint liability of contractors and their subcontractors has been limited by the heads of state to the building sector alone. it is not enough, because tomorrow we will have to go into the agri-food and transport sectors, where fraud can develop thanks to a bargain effect. nevertheless, all the political groups calling for the repeal of the 1996 directive on secondment, which will vote against the compromise tomorrow, are wrong: to destroy this text would be to endorse the law of the jungle, dear to the ultra-liberals! criticism is too easy, take off your masks now! this episode proves that if we have a strong parliament and put pressure on the european leaders, we can show willpower and make progress, step by step, of course, towards a social europe, with the aim of protecting the rights of european workers! at european level, we will have to scrap the 1996 directive to reinforce its social safeguards again, the ball is now in the court of the member states. to combat unfair competition, the means, staff and independence of inspections must be strengthened to complement european advances. tomorrow we want a social europe, a europe which protects workers and strives for the so-called social good, and therefore a minimum wage must be introduced...
mr president, commissioner, the posting of workers directive has been used for too long by large multinational companies to circumvent labour law and facilitate unacceptable dumping practices in social and pension matters and unhealthy competition for european workers. we should tackle the substance and therefore completely revise the directive because the competition and exploitation of the so-called 'posted' workers will unfortunately continue. the way in which this dossier is concluded is symbolic of the lack of attention paid by our institutions to the social question. we have seen, for years, the commission's delay, then a late proposal with a text dealing with the right to collective action, then negotiations which have set aside most of the progress proposed here by our parliament and, in the last line, a rather sloppy text which gives the illusion that social emergencies are being tackled. as for labour inspectors, we cannot demand more of them and then keep cutting back on public service budgets. i hope that the future parliament will reopen this dossier and say clearly that social dumping cannot be the only horizon of european economic and social policy.
non-discriminatory access to central counterparties, trading venues and benchmarks (article 28 – 30 mifir) one of the main purposes of the commission proposal is to ensure the prohibition of discriminatory practices and the removal of barriers that limit competition in the clearing of financial instruments in order to increase competition for clearing of financial instruments so as to lower investment and borrowing costs, eliminate inefficiencies and foster innovation in european markets. while agreeing that a gradual transition towards a complete opening may be useful, the agreement reached by the co-legislators will not reach the purpose intended by the commission proposal. transitional periods of more than two years after the entry into application – 30 months have been agreed by the co-legislators – would further consolidate vested market positions. transparency on non-equity financial markets (article 8 mifir) whereas the commission has constructively worked with co-legislators to define limited exemptions from the proposed transparency regime to cater for overarching public interests such as to avoid affecting the refinancing of member states, it regrets that its ambitious proposals to achieve fully transparent non-equity financial markets, in particular for derivatives, have not been endorsed by the co-legislators. it will review this matter again in the near future against the objective of achieving effective and fair price formation on financial markets and make legislative proposals if appropriate. empowerments for delegated acts (articles 66, 67, 68 mifid and articles 6, 10, 28, 29, 30 mifir the commission notes that many empowerments for delegated acts under articles 290 tfeu in its proposals have been changed into regulatory technical standards under article 10 of regulation 2010/1095 (‘esma regulation’). these amendments do not respect the limitations set out in that regulation in so far as technical standards can only cover aspects requiring technical expertise and cannot imply strategic decisions or policy choices.
commission statement on the competence of the committee the commission regrets the inclusion of recital 16b that has the potential to create confusion and legal uncertainty. the role of the committees which ensure control by member states on the commission’s exercise of implementing powers is defined only by regulation no (eu) 182/2011, adopted on the basis of article 291, third paragraph, tfeu. therefore, no other secondary legislative act can alter or would need to specify further this role. in particular, the rules of procedures of committees are adopted by the committees on the basis of regulation no (eu) 182/2011. as such they are to be applied when the committee exercises its role defined by regulation no (eu) 182/2011. any reference to rules of procedures outside this context is superfluous and inappropriate. it also risks complicating the functioning of the committee. with regard to the possibility of the european parliament to be invited to meetings, the commission will implement this recital in accordance with its practice in the implementation of point 15 of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission. commission statement on the ‘no-opinion’ clause the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation no (eu) 182/2011 to invoke article 5, paragraph 4, subparagraph 2, point (b) in a systematic manner. recourse to this provision must respond to a specific need to depart from the rule of principle which is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered. given that it is an exception to the general rule established by article 5(4), recourse to subparagraph 2, point (b), cannot be simply seen as a “discretionary power” of the legislator, but must be interpreted in a restrictive manner and thus must be justified. while the commission notes the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the recourse to this provision it regrets that such justification is not reflected in a recital. commission statement on the consultation of experts in the context of preparation of delegated acts the commission regrets the inclusion in articles 8(2), 8(2a), 11(2) and 29(6) of a provision stressing the importance for the commission to ‘carry out consultations with experts, including member states’ experts, during the preparation of such delegated acts’. the commission recalls that the commission is autonomous in the preparation and adoption of delegated acts. moreover, article 290 tfeu contains an exhaustive list of the procedural conditions which a delegation may be made subject to. the standard recital on expert advice contained in the common understanding agreed between the three institutions is a reflection of that interpretation.
commission statement on recital 55 which reads as follows: when matters relating to this directive, other than its implementation or infringements, are being examined, i.e. in a commission expert group, the european parliament should in line with existing practice receive full information and documentation and, where appropriate, an invitation to attend such meetings. commission statement:‘with regard to recital 55 and the possibility of the european parliament to be invited to meetings of expert groups, the commission will implement this recital in accordance with its practice in the implementation of point 15 of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission. meetings of the comitology committee are explicitly excluded under this arrangement. concerning the reference to infringements in the same recital, the commission considers this misleading as infringements proceeding are discussed with member states in the context of the procedures set out under article 258 tfeu. ’ commission statement on the provision and corresponding recital which reads as follows: relevant part of article 44(5) on committee procedure: the committee shall be consulted by the commission on any matter for which consultation of sectoral experts is required by regulation (eu) no 1025/2012 or by any other union legislation. the committee may furthermore examine any other matter concerning the application of this directive raised either by its chair or by a representative of a member state in accordance with its rules of procedure. corresponding recital 54: in line with established practice, the committee set up by this directive can play a useful role in examining matters concerning the application of this directive raised either by its chair or by a representative of a member state in accordance with its rules of procedure. commission statement:‘the commission regrets the adoption of article 44, paragraph 5, and recital 54 that have the potential to create confusion and legal uncertainty. the role of the committees which ensure control by member states on the commission’s exercise of implementing powers is defined only by regulation no (eu) 182/2011, adopted on the basis of article 291, third paragraph, tfeu. therefore, no other secondary legislative act can alter or would need to specify further this role. in particular, the rules of procedure of committees are adopted by the committees on the basis of regulation no (eu) 182/2011. as such they are to be applied when the committee exercises its role defined by regulation no (eu) 182/2011. any reference to rules of procedure outside this context is superfluous and inappropriate. it also risks complicating the functioning of the committee.’
i'm the reporter. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i should like, as is the custom, to begin by thanking the fictitious rapporteurs and all those who have worked on this report, which is a technical, legal and somewhat complicated one. i would also like to thank the representatives of the commission and the council with whom we have had a fruitful dialogue. the text before us concerns the restitution of cultural property between member states. the draft directive proposed by the commission has a limited scope. it concerns only national treasures which have left the territory of a member state of the union unlawfully, and only for the purpose of returning such property between member states. it's a little more limited because it's a redesign. it is important to know that this directive was proposed in 1993 when the internal borders of the european union were abolished. it is based on article 36 of the treaties, which provides for exceptions, particularly in cultural matters. unfortunately, there was no uniform definition of what constitutes a national treasure then, and there is no such definition today. but in a way, this is normal. the 1993 directive was a serious failure, as there were very few refunds, only 7, and 46[nbsp]refunds in good faith. it is necessary to amend that directive, in particular by extending the time limits for restitution and those allowing states to verify the nature of the cultural property subject to the proceedings and to reverse the burden of proof of the possession of the unlawful property, shifting the burden of proof from the victim state seeking restitution to the possessor of the property who must demonstrate that he has exercised due diligence to verify the origin of the property and thus to benefit from compensation. the trilogue negotiations were successful and were endorsed by the council at the beginning of march and by the committee on culture and education last week. the main amendments are mainly proposals made by the european parliament. they will make it possible to define clearly, from the outset, the objectives of the directive and to promote coordination between the member states as far as possible, while respecting the specific characteristics of cultural goods which cannot be treated like other goods and facilitating the dissemination of information in order to enable the actors, and in particular those in the art market, to verify the origin of the cultural goods they are going to acquire. it also helps to clarify the lessons of good faith and due diligence, which in some legislations have rather ambiguous connotations. this is particularly the case in france. the text is intended to prevent the reckless actor from receiving compensation from the injured state which wants to recover his property. most of the art dealers are involved. so they are not casual shoppers but seasoned professionals. it may be helpful to make it clear that the judge will be the one to assess the matter and will be given full latitude to make the best possible assessment of the situation. the new text will also allow this procedure to be used for property which left the territory of a member state before 1993 - this claim has been made on many occasions - and also for cultural property and objects other than those classified as 'national treasures' provided that the two member states concerned agree. we would like to go further with a better definition by the member states of the concept of 'national treasure', a stronger incentive for the member states to ratify the unesco and unidroit conventions on the illicit trafficking of cultural property and on the information of the actors and, more broadly, the public. all these points were nevertheless incorporated in the recitals, if not in the body of the text itself. finally, we would have liked to go further with regard to the specific recognition of cultural property by relying on article 167 of the treaties, which gives the european union competence in cultural matters, in particular on the question of heritage, just as we would have liked to have made explicit reference to the unesco convention on cultural diversity. this text is eagerly awaited by our partners, particularly at unesco. it is welcome that this issue was included in the eu-africa conference. many hope that the system will run smoothly. its implementation depends to a large extent on the member states. let's hope they can move on. i would like to thank once again all those who have been willing to work on this report.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i thank all the members who took part in the debate and the european parliament, starting with the rapporteur, for the contribution they have made to changing this directive, which is moving in the right direction towards greater protection of national and european artistic heritage. this enhanced cooperation between parliament and the european commission is important and i would also like to thank the greek deputy prime minister for taking part directly in the debate, also in relation to the council. i would also like to announce that, as soon as it is adopted, we will start work on developing a module of the internal market information system to facilitate administrative cooperation and the exchange of information between the authorities of the member states responsible for the directive. in this connection, my directorate-general could also be given a mandate to include among the assets where information exchange will be indispensable the assets stolen from the jewish people during the second world war. i am therefore responding positively to the request made by the honourable member. the directive provides for 1993 as the date, but each member state may bring forward this date on its own initiative, without this being imposed on other member states. so from this point of view, we are moving in the direction that many members of this house would like.
madam president, the cornelius gurlitt case in germany and the 1,400 artworks found in his attic have highlighted the difficulty of returning looted cultural property. according to unesco, the illegal trafficking of art is the third largest trafficking in the world, behind drugs and arms. the black market in cultural goods represents a loss for the member state of origin, its culture, heritage, museums and above all for citizens' access to art. worse still, when these works are found, their restitution is too complicated because of the misunderstandings and mistrust that still exist between the national judicial administrations. today we are finally modernising the 1993 european directive which sought to address these problems. the reform broadens the definition of cultural property. it will lead to better information sharing and longer time limits for making a claim for restitution. cultural heritage is a universal good that we should protect.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . madam president, ladies and gentlemen, your remarks have shown the seriousness of the matter and the degree of sensitivity which exists in many member states in relation to these matters. as you know, history and archaeology are two fields that are intensely political. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. it is therefore a matter of great care. it is very important to send the message to the societies and citizens of the european union, just before the european elections, that we can cultivate a common historical awareness and a common standard of sensitivity towards these issues. i agree with all the honourable members who have stressed the obvious, namely that the huge problem of theft or illegal trafficking of cultural goods did not start in 1993. 1993 is a conventional date associated with the completion of the single market. the problem did not begin with the creation of the european communities in the mid-1950s, nor did it begin with the second world war. it is an issue which, unfortunately, has been present for a long time. i have given you examples, such as the mutilation of the immovable monument - because it is not a movable monument - the parthenon, which dates back to the beginning of the 19th century, and i have given you the example of the turkish invasion and occupation of a large part of the territory of the republic of cyprus, where we have damaged cultural property in 1974, which is still continuing to the detriment of a member state 40 years later. it is very important to highlight these sensitivities. the directive, neither in its original 1993 form nor in its current improved form, constitutes a comprehensive system of international protection of cultural property against the risk of illicit trafficking, seizure, confiscation, theft and misappropriation. we do not even have a fully-fledged european mechanism. but it's an important step. we must not forget that all the member states of the european union are members of unesco anyway. we are bound by the international conventions governing unesco and it is very important to strengthen our cooperation with unesco, as of course with the council of europe, which has relevant responsibilities in many areas. unfortunately - or fortunately, depending on the point of view one chooses - we cannot have a single european definition of the concept of national treasures, because cultural policy issues are issues which still fall within the competence and jurisdiction of the member states. the european union has a fundamental right to national identity, which is enshrined in the basic, fundamental provisions of the treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's something that's connected to our sense of identity. each country, each member state, is competent to determine, in accordance with criteria which are more widely accepted, internationally accepted, the list of its national treasures and it is the obligation of all the others, and in this case all the other member states, respecting the identity of the other member state, to respect the determination of the list of its own national treasures. it is an elementary act of solidarity but also a legal obligation deriving from the treaty which respects the national identity of the member states. but in addition to cultural goods which constitute national treasures, there are national treasures which constitute world and pan-european cultural goods. such an example, let me say again, is the parthenon issue which is the emblem of western civilization - not because there is any superiority but because, historically, it happened that way. it is therefore very important that the report be adopted. i would like to thank and congratulate once again the rapporteur and all those who have contributed and the commission, but of course that is not enough. the adoption of the report will encourage us to complete the procedure for amending and bringing the directive into force as quickly as possible. we shall of course have an improved legal text. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, yes, we were forced to. a lot of questions have been asked, both here and outside. why the 1993 date? because we are in the logic of the internal market, in the logic of open borders, in the logic of the free movement of goods and on the basis of articles 34 and 35 of the treaties, and only those. to answer all the questions that have been asked here, whether they concern greece, croatia, cyprus or jewish property, commissioner, we should have based this directive on article 167, as we could have done, as the european parliament has asked, as the commission and the council have refused, throughout the negotiations. the commission has the exclusive right of legislative initiative. we were not only based on articles 34 and 35, but also on a reworking. we have fought to extend the scope of this text as much as possible and we have succeeded because of our stubbornness and because, as a whole, we have fought on this issue and we have widened the margins. as i have said before, i hope that this initiative will finally lead all the member states to adhere to the unesco convention on this subject. we are also very far from the whole of the unidroit convention. and the council as a whole - sorry, mr minister, i know it's not greece and you've helped us a lot - has refused everything in the articles of the directive. we have a signal because it's in the recitals. i would also have liked to see the unesco convention on cultural diversity included, because that would have given us an extra base. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because this is a matter for the member states alone and nothing will happen before 1993 unless the two member states concerned agree. don't tell us any stories, especially not today. we have done the maximum we could do within the framework of the proposal that was put to us by the commission. i would have liked to go much further, but thanks to the european parliament we have as many signals as possible in this area and i thank once again all those who have been willing to work with me to get this directive moving.
member of the commission. - madam president, we are here to discuss an initiative that aims to help solve a serious and often highly visible environmental problem: the over-consumption and littering of plastic carrier bags. plastic carrier bags easily escape waste management streams and accumulate in our environment, especially in the form of marine litter. for example, plastic bags accounted for 73% of the plastic waste collected by travellers along the tuscany coast. once discarded, they can last for hundreds of years, often as harmful microscopic particles that are damaging to the environment worldwide, and especially the marine environment. in the north sea, the stomachs of 94% of all birds contain plastics. the huge and growing consumption rates of plastic bags – 100 billion bags per year in the eu alone as already mentioned – also demonstrates a squandering of resources. plastic bags are a symbol of our throw-away society and unsustainable lifestyles. we use them for a few minutes but their legacy lasts for hundreds of years. public opinion is strongly behind reducing the use of lightweight plastic bags, but public behavioural change needs a nudge. this is the clear lesson from member states such as ireland, which have that shown simple measures can lead to big changes. the time has come for member states to take action across the european union, building on the successful initiatives already in place and in response to broad public concern and support. this is why environment ministers called on the commission to make proposals and it is why in november last year the commission tabled a simple and straightforward proposal to amend the european union’s packaging and packaging waste directive. the proposal contains two main elements. first, it requires member states to adopt measures to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags, as these tend to be used once, and frequently end up as litter. secondly, the proposal provides member states with a range of instruments, including economic instruments such as charges, national reduction targets and possible marketing restrictions, provided that they are compatible with the european union treaty rules. parliament’s draft report clearly shows that we share the same objective: limiting the consumption and littering of plastic carrier bags. i am very grateful for the support, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms auken, for her hard and thorough work on the commission’s proposal. thanks also to the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. however, there are some amendments in the report that the commission regards as unnecessary in achieving the objectives of the proposal. the idea of the reduction target might be appealing, and indeed the commission looked into this possibility in quite some detail. our conclusion was that it would be almost impossible at this stage to design and implement an effective and meaningful eu-wide reduction target applying to all member states. the commission also does not think that it is appropriate to make exceptions for plastic carrier bags that are used to carry loose, humid and dry food or food and beverages for immediate consumption. it is perfectly possible to reduce the consumption of these bags too while respecting food safety and hygiene requirements. the commission considers that all lightweight plastic carrier bags should be treated in the same way, regardless of the type of plastic they are made of. all lightweight bags contribute to littering and can end up in the marine environment. biodegradable plastics only biodegrade within a reasonable time if they are disposed of and treated in appropriate conditions. the prefix ‘bio’ does not mean that biodegradable bags are necessarily environmentally friendly. our overriding aim should therefore be to reduce the use of all lightweight plastic bags. this would also be in line with the waste hierarchy principle and the prevention of waste in the first place. we also believe that we should not touch, in these proposals, on issues that are broader than plastic bags. for example, broader provisions relating to specific types of plastics such as the proposed ban on oxo-biodegradable plastics or to maximum concentration levels for hazardous substances and endocrine disrupters in packaging are not part of our proposal. these issues, as well as the biodegradability of plastics, which are of course important, should not be addressed in relation to a single product – the plastic bag – but in a broader context, including as a follow-up to our green paper on plastic waste. we finally believe that member states, when designing policies to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags should be able to choose from a broad range of possible measures including also marketing restrictions, subject to the relevant treaty provisions. the commission and parliament, as i already mentioned, share the same objective, even though we may still need more discussion on the measures best suited to achieve that objective. in this light, the commission will carefully examine the amendments voted here these days in great detail. the commission remains at the disposal of parliament and the council with a view to finding a mutually agreeable outcome between all institutions as soon as possible.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, this issue of reducing the consumption of plastic bags is important because it would actually reduce one of the worst pollutants in our society, the so-called consumption. i would even argue that we should go much further, openly promoting the use of bags that are either fully biodegradable or easily recyclable. i want to say that there are real local industries to be developed around biodegradable plastic bags made from potato starch or cornstarch and around recycled paper bags. i don't believe in punitive ecology, which is about taxing or making the consumer pay, making the poorest pay, for a consumption model that we have imposed on them. if there are people who are responsible and who must pay, it is the big retailers and the oil companies, who make huge profits every year. what our europe should be encouraging, if it were not so sensitive to the oil lobbies, is a tax exemption for products which are either fully recyclable or fully biodegradable, developed on the basis of a concrete agreement between research, agriculture and industry, and which will help to develop employment in europe. this would be welcome and would restore the european union's tarnished image in the field of employment and industry.
madam president, it is true that europeans use an average of 200 plastic bags a year. it's too much. it's a scourge to the environment, it's a waste and it's unfortunate in our society. there is no doubt that prevention is needed, that behaviour must be changed, that the use of plastic bags must be gradually reduced. but let us not fall once more into the trap of a europe which regulates everything wrong and through. i would like to see common sense used to obtain conclusive results. we must distinguish between reusable plastic bags and those that are not, which are real waste. a distinction must also be made between conventional plastics and biodegradable or compostable materials. i am convinced that we must support the research activities of our smes in this sector, which are also trying to use non-food crops to produce bags, because we will certainly not be able to persuade our fellow citizens to stop using bags altogether. i also hope that the reduction targets will not include very lightweight bags used for packaging foodstuffs such as raw meat, fish and dairy products. for food safety and hygiene reasons, this type of packaging is still needed. there is certainly still a lot to be done, but above all we must not deprive ourselves of finding solutions within the framework of industry. i believe that much needs to be done in this area to reconcile the reduction and use of bags for food purposes.
madam president, commissioner, in our debates we often talk about the deviations of our system: the deviations linked to economic liberalism, the deviations linked to austerity - again in economic matters - and the ecological deviations. we have here a clear symbol of the deviations of our model of society. between 500 and 1,000 billion units of plastic bags are produced each year worldwide. europe, on the other hand, produces 98 billion of these plastic bags a year. but we now know that their ecological consequences are disastrous. 60 to 75 percent of the debris found on the ocean floor is plastic bags. in france alone, 122 million plastic bags pollute 5,000 kilometers of coastline. the european union was lagging behind in this area. it was urgent to act. that is why i welcome the european commission's text very much, especially since it has been greatly improved by the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to which i belong.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president, the agreement reached by the council and the european parliament on the draft regulation on operations at sea borders coordinated by frontex is a major achievement for both co-legislators and has important and positive political and legal implications for the union. the agreement was reached in a short time, after intensive negotiations. it was an open challenge for us to get this text ready in time and to meet the deadlines for the necessary legal acts to be adopted before the european elections. in this way we will also have complied with the relevant decision of the court of justice of the european union. the final result is a carefully crafted compromise solution, based on a comprehensive approach, in which there have of course been concessions on both sides. it is therefore a balanced text, which respects the rights of the individuals concerned, while at the same time continuing to serve the legitimate national interest of the member states, which will be called upon to apply it when participating in frontex operations. the presidency of the council takes this opportunity to warmly thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, the shadow rapporteurs and of course the commissioner, mrs malmström, for the excellent and systematic work she is doing and for the good cooperation she has always had with the council. the regulation is expected to make a significant contribution to the effective management of the external maritime borders of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. monitoring border crossing points with the most efficient use of means is essential to combat illegal immigration. but it also strengthens the protection of those at risk at sea. the regulation is one of the major proposals of the task force on the mediterranean, which has been set up and is functioning. the obvious aim of the regulation is to establish a common european approach to issues relating mainly to detection, interception, search and rescue and disembarkation in the context of maritime operations coordinated by frontex. the provisions of the regulation are of course based on the relevant international conventions. this creates a framework that provides legal certainty for issues that may arise during these operations. it should be stressed that the regulation respects the principle of non-refoulement and is in line with the charter of fundamental rights as interpreted by the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights. the regulation strengthens solidarity towards those member states which, for geographical reasons, are more involved in maritime operations at the external borders of the european union. given the operational complexity and urgency of these operations, the best results can only be achieved through a coordinated and timely response, involving resources and means from as many member states as possible. i would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of this agreement. it gives us the opportunity to establish clear rules for the effective control of the european union's external maritime borders, it allows us to comply with the judgment of the court of justice of the european union and it allows us to formulate solutions which are in keeping with european legal culture.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur carlos coelho who, as always, has done an excellent job together with his team and his co-rapporteurs and shadows in the different committees. also thanks to the presidency for its work and the presidencies before it so that today we stand here with, hopefully, a strong agreement on this compromise. i think we can be very satisfied with the compromise. it achieves the objective of our proposal – to ensure the effective and proper functioning of frontex-coordinated sea operations and to guarantee proper fundamental rights protection during these operations. clear and binding rules should also encourage more member states to participate in these operations. this legislation, as has been said, is a response to a judgment by the court of justice which annulled the current rules and guidelines, but all three institutions have worked very hard to make sure that today, before parliament closes, we have an agreement. the draft regulation governs frontex-coordinated sea operations. it is based on a concept of border surveillance that is not limited to the detection of attempts at irregular crossing of borders, but extends also to actions such as intercepting vessels trying to gain unauthorised entry to the european union. it includes arrangements to address situations such as search and rescue that may arise during those operations and arrangements for disembarkation. the provisions on interception, search and rescue, and disembarkation must form part of the operation plan drawn up for each operation. this is an entirely binding instrument and this is one of the key points for us in the commission. it was possible to achieve this thanks to your support. according to the principle of ‘non-refoulementʼ, no[nbsp ]one should be removed or returned to a country where, directly or indirectly, there is a serious risk that he or she would be subject to inhumane or degrading treatment, where his or her life or freedom would be threatened on grounds of, for instance, race or religion. this was a very important aspect of our original proposal where we took into account recent, legal and judicial developments, and it has been further reinforced by the amendments in this parliament. the draft regulation sets out the procedures for applying the principle of non-refoulement in the event of disembarkation in a third country. an assessment is required of the situation in general of that particular third country and a further assessment of an individual nature needs to be done by the border guards during the operation itself. the intercepted or rescued persons need to be informed of the place of disembarkation and they must be given an opportunity to express any reason for believing that disembarkation in a particular third country would be in violation of the principle of non-refoulement. thanks to parliament’s amendments frontex will need to report on the practical applications of this draft regulation and in particular of the application on non-refoulement. one of the most distressing and challenging issues that we face today, and we can read about it every day in the papers, is the loss of life at sea. we have seen terrible examples lately. every effort must be made to assist people in distress and the fact that this draft regulation contains legally binding provisions on search and rescue applicable to sea operations coordinated at eu level is an important achievement. negotiations were not easy but we are here and i want to thank everybody involved. the role of frontex in coordinating the operational cooperation between member states in the mediterranean is a key element to ensure effective border control in the region and at the same time provide assistance to persons in distress. this is one way, as also identified – and as mentioned by the minister – in the work of the task force on the mediterranean, of trying to prevent similar tragedies to those we have witnessed lately. this brings me to the last point, which concerns the issue of disembarkation after interception or rescue. disembarkation after interception is based on objective criteria to ensure the subsequent adoption of the enforcement measures needed. for instance, in the case of interception in territorial seas or a contiguous zone, disembarkation takes place in the coastal member state. disembarkation in a third country is only possible when a vessel is intercepted on the high seas, subject to protection of fundamental rights and the correct application of the non-refoulement principle being guaranteed. in a rescue situation, cooperation between member states and the rescue coordination centre responsible is essential and this is also emphasised in the regulation. rescued people must be taken to a safe place and this must not only be a place where safety of life is not threatened but also a place where they would not be at risk of being subjected to any treatment in violation of the principle of non-refoulement. member states have in this respect an obligation to cooperate with the rescue coordination centre responsible, not only to identify a place of safety, but also to ensure that the rescued persons are disembarked rapidly and effectively. finally, i very much value and appreciate the provisions on solidarity introduced by parliament. the issues that we have discussed in this plenary so many times concerning refugees and migrants coming to europe are a challenge for all of us, not just for the member states immediately affected on the southern borders. both the member states and the institutions share the responsibility to do what we can to help and with this draft regulation i think that notion has been further strengthened. i thank you again for all the work that has been done on this.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as the european union was awarded the nobel peace prize, we have been able to record the number of deaths in the mediterranean sea in recent months, in what has been considered, not only by journalists but by all europeans and citizens of the world, as a graveyard for citizens. this evening we can welcome this balanced agreement and the work done, as you have said, by the european parliament on this key issue. i would simply like to highlight four points in this connection, which i welcome. firstly, it is a real change, because we will finally have binding rules on search and rescue operations at sea carried out by frontex in the framework of maritime operations coordinated by it, since until now we had guidelines which were not mandatory and nothing obliged the vessels or crews involved in the operations to rescue ships in distress. secondly, our parliament has obtained in the agreement, after a great deal of struggle and insistence, binding measures and the possibility of identifying migrants intercepted at sea. it is essential that victims of human trafficking, unaccompanied minors and asylum seekers can be identified. finally, the deletion of a paragraph which allowed for pushback operations, for returning to the high seas, is also a very important step forward. we have to follow up on the operations carried out by the member states.
mr president, i would like to believe that the text which is to be adopted tomorrow will solve the problem of rescue at sea and that there will be fewer deaths in the mediterranean, but this text is flawed from the outset. it concerns only frontex, and we all know that the member states are the main responsible for the deaths in the mediterranean. spain, italy, france, greece, malta and cyprus opposed any real progress in the text. because what they are interested in - and you know that, commissioner - is only to get more money from the european union so that we can continue to let them settle their little affairs. yet we know that the deaths in the aegean were the fault of the greek coastguards. excuse me, mr. minister, i'm sure you'll be less kind to me than before. in ceuta and melilla, spanish police fired blanks at the buoys. at least 15 people died. none of these horrors will be dealt with by this text. worse, it's going to allow for a little more outsourcing. we'll decide on the high seas whether or not we can admit some refugees! we know that the majority of those who have died in the mediterranean are potential asylum seekers. they are eritreans, somalis, ethiopians, syrians, afghans. no, so it's not a balance. no, we're not gonna settle anything, and unfortunately, i'm gonna have to put you on the next drama.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, by deciding to dedicate today's sitting of the european parliament to the centenary of the outbreak of the first world war, the european parliament has rightly chosen to close its proceedings by sending the citizens of the european union the message that it is aware of history. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. the end of history, the end of wars in europe at least, and the establishment of perpetual peace were not proclaimed for the first time since the dissolution of the soviet union and the end of the cold war. they had been declared theoretically before the outbreak of world war i. one hundred years after the start of what was called the great war, the european union is on the eve of elections to elect a new european parliament, that is, on the eve of the formation and recording of a pan-european balance of power which is to be added to the intergovernmental or, rather, interstate balance that already exists and plays a decisive role. the anniversary finds the european union still dealing with the consequences of the budgetary and financial crisis that erupted in 2007. for many member states and their societies, the big question is whether there can be a europe without austerity policies and high unemployment, especially for young people. in all the member states, the crucial question is whether europe can continue to be identified with democracy, with the rule of law, with a european welfare state which has the potential to overcome its demographic and budgetary crisis with pluralism, tolerance, competitiveness, full employment, innovation, creativity, culture. the question is, in other words, of a europe identified with the values which are at the historical, ideological and political foundation of european integration after the tragic experiences of the first and second world wars. the anniversary also finds the european union confronted with an excessively large number of open crises in its eastern and southern neighbourhoods. it finds europe facing situations which are again testing its international political identity, from syria to libya, from iran to ukraine. a few months ago, no one was discussing as an urgent matter an acute crisis in the union's relations, and in the west in general, with russia, on the occasion of ukraine. but now this is the number one political and economic problem of the union. the development of the first world war and the american involvement in this predominantly european war made the problem of peace, stability and security in europe a euro-atlantic problem from 1917 onwards. this was consolidated after the second world war and is still a reality which is confirmed in all open crises, international and regional. the situation in bosnia-herzegovina, a country located in the heart of the european continent, continues to require the particular attention of the european union and the entire international community. this is indeed significant, a hundred years after the outbreak of the great war, on the occasion of an incident in sarajevo. history does not repeat itself, as long as it is a lesson and an essential parameter of our analysis and strategy. the greek presidency of the council sees as a sign of increased responsibility the fact that all these great historical challenges, from the european elections and the agreement on the single resolution mechanism for systemic banks to the crisis in ukraine, coincide in its term. we therefore have an obligation to present to the peoples of the union a new, integrated and attractive narrative of european integration and its prospects. each european political party formulates its own version in a democratic and pluralist process. the technical elements of this narrative are shaped by difficulties, delays, compromises, but they are shaped nonetheless. i am referring, for example, to the banking union, the working group on equal resources, the always open debate on the principle of subsidiarity. new tools such as the youth initiative are being added to the european financial mechanisms. the tripartite approach of stability, growth and employment is once again the union's priority. the link between foreign and energy policy is enriching the common foreign and security policy. the union's relationship with nato has become much more balanced and has now acquired elements of automation. the anniversary of the outbreak of the first world war, however, forces us to remember that the big issues are always political and involve national, ethnic, linguistic and religious identities and sensitivities. they concern fixed national priorities, stereotypes, geopolitical and geo-economic recruitment. it is therefore important to stress here today, in strasbourg, in the european parliament's plenary session, that, one hundred years after the outbreak of the first world war, the citizens and peoples of europe have made the fundamental and final choice of peace, stability, respect for existing frontiers, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the states of the european continent. that is not self-evident, unfortunately. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, a hundred years ago, in the spring of 1914, a prosperous, cultured, powerful europe, which had established close economic ties, was living in a period of exceptional peace. war seemed unthinkable. yet a terrorist attack has brought about the self-destruction of europe, dividing peoples who had so much in common. on a national level, this war can be described as a victory or a defeat. there have been, of course, great examples of heroism, which cannot be forgotten and which must be respected. but from a european point of view, and above all from the point of view of the millions of victims, this war cannot be described as a european civil war. just as in our countries we have had fratricidal wars, i believe it is fair to say that the great war was the first of the great european civil wars. i would like to draw three lessons from this period. firstly, the preservation of peace remains one of the main reasons for the european union. we must not forget that nationalism was at the root of that terrible war and that today the european union offers precisely the means to avoid the perverse logic of nationalism, while preserving and strengthening the national identities of our countries. in the age of globalisation, security is indivisible. there is only one world sharing the same planet, a universe in which the balances depend on a win-win model that must prevail over a zero-sum game logic. for europe, supporting people who aspire to peace, democracy and freedom and also advocating a fairer sharing of the very unequally distributed resources of the world is not only a matter of respect for its values but also a matter of strategic intelligence. and for europe to remain the ultimate guarantor of its security, we need to develop more european policies in key areas such as energy, immigration and defence. europeans must also act together to continue to exert and strengthen influence in the world. because we have to be influential to defend our values and interests. the second lesson is respect for international law and respect for the rule of law. the great war was also the failure of diplomatic mechanisms that had become bogged down over time. to deal with these uncertainties and to have another peaceful way of finding solutions to conflicts of interest between countries in europe, we have, after the second world war, created strong, independent european institutions which are the guarantors of respect for the rule of law and european legislation. they transform the various national interests into a european interest with a higher added value. in the era of globalisation and interdependence, we need, more than ever, not only stronger european cooperation but also common institutions. they must be strengthened to adapt to a world which is itself constantly changing. and that is what we are doing, for example, by developing a genuine economic and monetary union. but we must not wait for new crises to openly raise the fundamental question of political union. not only because the strength of economic and monetary union depends on the credibility of the political and institutional structure on which it is based. but also because our union is fundamentally a political project, a community of values. this is all the more important when the international order itself needs to be re-thinked and europe has an important contribution to make. finally, the third lesson is responsibility and solidarity. stefan zweig, recalling the first days of the war, described [i] i quote[i]: "those thousands and those hundreds of thousands of men who felt as never before what they should have felt better in peacetime, how they were in solidarity. "in a world where the keyword is 'interdependence', what would the influence of our countries be today without shared sovereignty within the european union? and what would our union be without solidarity and the responsibility of each of us for the prosperity and security of all? one hundred years ago, the german empire, austria-hungary, belgium, france, luxembourg, portugal, the united kingdom, the kingdoms of bulgaria, italy, greece and romania, the russian and ottoman empires, serbia and montenegro, to name but the european countries, clashed in a terrible war. the savagery which had started in europe then spread throughout the world. one hundred years on, the european union has proved that it is effective in organising life in such a way as to ensure that there is a much more decent world. it can and must contribute to shaping globalisation that protects and defends that which is universally human in mankind. and yet, we see in the eastern neighbourhood of our european union two concepts of europe contrasting with each other: the one of a modern, open and democratic europe, in which 28 countries have voluntarily joined the european union to realize the most revolutionary progress in the history of mankind in terms of relations between countries; and against this, the old concept of a europe which continues to think and to act in categories of power, spheres of influence, diktat, mistrust and the logic of 'rule and divide'. when we compare these concepts, and when we recall that the first world war was followed by the second world war, it is fair to say that we have already drawn our lessons. the european union is our lesson of two world wars and must remain so in the future. if at all, as a result of the events in ukraine, there is a new lesson to be drawn, it is that we must never i repeat never take peace and stability in europe for granted. we need to defend peace and stability in europe. now that some of our old demons are reawakening, we should not forget that those who defend ultra-nationalism and xenophobia are also attacking the european union and the values which we hold dear. there are many shades of nationalism. some of them are more protectionist, some of them are more chauvinist, some of them focus on foreigners or migrants, some of them have a pitch against globalization, but there is always one thing in common among nationalists: they hate the european union, they think the european union is their enemy, and indeed it is. the european union stands against the aggressive nature of ultra-nationalism. we are all united now, within a union that guarantees peace, democracy, freedom and justice for each of our countries; a precious union, which was awarded the prestigious nobel peace prize in 2012. we are bound, given our history, to preserve and defend it. honourable members, this has been our last debate in plenary before european elections next month. i would like to take this opportunity to thank this house, your two presidents during this term, president buzek and president schulz, and all of you for the discussion, the cooperation and the results we have achieved together. together, we have weathered and withstood the most severe financial and economic crisis since the beginning of european integration. at times we were facing an existential threat to the euro and even to our union. and just yesterday, this parliament, by a huge majority, gave its final green light to the final step in our banking union, one of the many achievements of these years which would have been considered impossible before the crisis. i think you can be proud of the work which, under these circumstances, you have done. responsibility, solidarity and leadership were the elements which eventually made us succeed together. the job is not done. too many citizens still feel the painful consequences of this crisis. our fight in particular for sustainable growth and against unemployment must and will continue. many of you are now going to run, in different political parties, for election to the new european parliament. i wish you all the best for your future. i hope that the next european parliament will remain a driving force for a united, open and stronger european union. (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr martin schulz, mr president of the commission, mr josé manuel barroso, mr president of the council, mr venizelos, ladies and gentlemen, this is also my last speech to you today. like dany does, we'll play the game as usual. he'll call me, i'm sure of it. he's also giving his last speech. i'm sure you'll miss this convention, too. i hope you'll say the same about me. i would like to thank all my colleagues, the chairmen of the political groups, the vice-presidents, the vice-presidents of parliament, the members of parliament, including those who were not fortunate enough to be in my group. thank you for your commitment and thank you for your hard work and, most of all, for your friendship. i also want to thank all the staff of the epp group, as well as all the civil servants in this house. in short, you are great because without you our work as representatives of the european citizens would be impossible. thank you for all the work you've done. i know that this is not something that is usually said, but today, on my last day, i would like to thank you very much for all the work that has been done, whether in the commission, the council or parliament. i have often had occasion to remind you, colleagues, that i am an alsatian. as an alsatian, i could not help but speak about the centenary of the first world war. this war has marked many of our families and our history here, as it has marked all of europe. world war i was an accident, the result of nationalistic thinking. an accident that should never have happened. an accident which led to the sacrifice of a lost generation on the battlefields of the somme, verdun, ypres, the vosges and elsewhere. an accident that, barely twenty years later, led to another, opening the way to a descent into hell with the holocaust. europe bombed, destroyed and, above all, europe cut in two. but despite this barbarity, our sense of humanity has survived. he even triumphed and allowed us to build peace. the same peace that we have enjoyed for more than 60 years and that won europe the nobel prize. we also owe this peace to men like schuman, de gasperi, churchill, de gaulle, adenauer, pflimlin and many others. a peace built and, above all, maintained by the great witnesses of our time: john paul ii, helmut kohl, václav havel, lech wałęsa, and all those men and women who have helped to reconcile europe with itself. europe is not yet a feeling but more of an idea. it's much more than just an idea, it's a space of freedom and exchange. europe has a soul, forged during the first and second world wars and the cold war. europe is here in this chamber because we represent the best that europe can bring: tolerance, solidarity, transparency, openness, diversity and, above all, respect. over the last five years, our parliament has worked in a spirit of dialogue, of compromise, of finding european solutions to the challenges we all face. i am proud to have served this parliament for the last 15 years. ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that war is impossible on our continent, and yet we have seen it in sarajevo, srebrenica and kosovo. and what is happening in ukraine today is not leaving us indifferent. some consider them to be aberrations. i see a very different explanation: violence is still there, it is latent. the danger of selfishness, nationalism and ego crises is still there. i am convinced that if europe succumbs to the populist and eurosceptic sirens, we will be going backwards in time. it would be a return to chaos and war for europe. if that were to happen, we would be held responsible. here in this chamber, my dear friends, we must fight this. here in this house, we must democratically, for the future, fight this battle and ensure that the accidents of 1914 and 1939 never happen again. our duty as pro-european parliamentarians is to work for greater integration, to build more common policies, to participate in the creation of a partnership area for peace and prosperity on our continent. then the 21st century will be remembered by historians as the century of the pax europea. ladies and gentlemen, as is often the case before elections, we are at a crossroads. we have a choice: to move forward or to move backward. today, some say that european integration must be stopped: that is to say, we must go backwards. others prefer an intergovernmental approach: backing down. others call for a multi-speed europe: it is a step backwards. i just want to remind you that in 1914 this same approach of the great powers led us to disaster. if there is one lesson we must learn from the wars that have ravaged our continent, it is that there are never winners. that what unites us must be much stronger than what divides us. europe is more than a mere addition of states. in 1945 we wanted our unity to grow together in peace. our work is not finished. the path to take is very clear, it always has been. i hope and i am sure that the next legislature will remember this, through the monuments to the 17 million women and men who died in 14-18, who will forever remain the only witnesses to the madness of war. the history of europe has been one of confrontation, gunfire and human flesh; wars that have reached the heart and soul of the great european family. since 1952, our house has replaced this barbarity and has become the place of dialogue between the peoples of europe. together we will build the future of our new history, a common history which is simply called europe. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. my dear friends! it's always the case when it's such a historic day, like 100 years since world war i: we all have a need to radiate warmth to each other. yes, we want warmth, we want warmth because the world as it is today is often a cold world and a very hard world. i'm going to tell you another story. why was the european union not up to date before the first world war, nor before the second world war? the answer is simple. before the first world war, there were states that wanted to unify europe in a hegemonic manner under the power of germany, france or russia. before the second world war, it was the same thing. it took the defeat of nazi germany and the defeat of the great colonial states like france and england for the european union to finally be created with a reality. the european union is not a single market. it's the only condition. this was the basic condition for the creation of europe as we know it today. the state, the nationalism, is not only the war, the nationalism, is the egoism. hegemonism is selfishness. if we have a political crisis in europe, it is perhaps because there is a hegemonic tendency in europe. there is a tendency to affirm that the truth cannot be found in any country. i tell you, if we continue like this, we destroy what we have built. there is no unique pas de vérité. there is no single ideology. if we do not understand this, we will not succeed in building europe! (applause from the centre) you know, colleagues, we are talking about nationalism and there are eurosceptics, etc. what bothers me is that europeans are afraid to fight, that they feel disarmed in the face of the ideologies of the eurosceptics on the right and on the left. finally, i would like to say to you: "read camus, let us be sisyphus, let us be happy, and let us always be on the european ball to move europe forward". yes, it is difficult! yes, it is hard! corn is a future that will be better for our children! i'm not afraid of you. we must not be afraid to confront the idiocy of the extreme right and the extreme left when they speak of europe. - what? go without hesitation! the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome. i have taken part in hundreds of debates in schools and in these i always tell a very simple story. i was born on april 4, 1945. i was conceived by my parents with the first biological possibility after the allied landings in normandy. that's when i was conceived. so, imagine that on april 4th, i arrive on earth, that i start to talk and that i say to my parents: "in fifty years, there will be no more border between france and germany. the rhine will no longer be a frontier but a common river". my parents would have said, "on a un problème. he speaks too soon and it doesn't matter". this is european history. this is my story. (applause from the centre) what have we done? you all said, we have achieved the unthinkable! the unthinkable, namely that the first world war, the second world war, is no longer possible in europe. insha allah, insha allah, insha allah, insha allah, insha allah, insha allah, insha allah. let us all rise in the morning and say thank you to all the greens, the old greens like helmut kohl, helmut schmidt, all those partisans of the european green party who have succeeded in building europe! that is why i also believe that when we talk about the future of europe, we must stop saying: 'yes, we must compromise'. it is clear that here in parliament we must make a compromise, but we have a vision. i am for the united states of europe! the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is the future of a europe where all citizens will have a place to socialize, live in peace and live well! we shall only achieve this by the vision of a europe which is moving towards a federal europe. (applause from the centre) you're going to say, "do it with a gentle dreamer". i'm going to confess something to you. i'm not a sovereign. national sovereignty has been swept away by globalisation. the national sovereignty does not exist any more. what is sovereignty? sovereignty is when peoples can freely and democratically decide their way of life and their projects of civilization. the project of civilization, our ways of life in today's globalised world, we cannot defend at national level. if we retaliate against the nation, we will be beaten, we will be swept away as national sovereignty has been by globalization. voilà what i have to say to those who sell the mirage, you return to the nation. we must say to them: 'you know, in thirty years, no member state of the european union will be part of the g8.' even the german! not even germany! the germans must be put in their place too! the g8, which will be russia, india and china. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture. unless there is a federal europe. a federal europe is the opposite of a centralised europe. the french must understand that the centralised model of the french republic is a model which no longer works in the modern world! it is for this that federalism is the future of modernity! (applause from the centre) it's not all the same, not so difficult to understand. it is for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, that i hope that those who will be present in this next parliament will have a greater sense of the common european interest. we are not fighting to defend national interests, as was the case when we debated, for example, the directive on cars. there is no common interest that can be reduced to a national interest. the interests of the german automobile industry are not the interests of the whole of europe. everyone must understand him! the french car industry is not in the interest of the whole of europe. we must understand each other. when have we understood, all together? it was simple, hannes. freedom in a word: sarajevo, bosnia. when the bosnian massacre began, france and england were traditionally pro-serb. germany was pro-croat after the second world war. as for the bosnian muslims, they had no pot: they were muslims and they had no oil at home. so, at the beginning, we left them to fall. we have left the massacres. we left the concentration camps an hour's flight from paris, frankfurt, berlin and i don't know where... when we understood that the common interest of europe was not the addition of the political interest of france, plus germany, plus england, we succeeded in intervening. that is why i say that the common interest of europe in ukraine is not the interest of german industry and large companies. i find it all the same incredible that the president of siemens has been to see putin and he has said: "between siemens and putin's russia, there is a community of values of 160 years". so hitler, plus stalin, is a community of common values! i believe that today, in ukraine, of course, there is no war at stake, but if we let the ukrainians down, tomorrow we will let other peoples down. the european union must therefore say: 'ukraine is fighting for freedom and for europe. we are ready to defend ukraine by all means except military ones". otherwise, there would be no need to build europe! (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, unfortunately this is probably not the last time we have to discuss ukraine in this parliament. in any case, this is the last time for this parliament. unfortunately, moscow has lit a slow-burning fuse on a barrel of gunpowder in ukraine. a slow burn because it is a methodical enterprise of deep destabilization of a free and sovereign state. it started with political pressure, when ukraine wanted to get closer to the european union, it continued with the deployment of troops, it continued with the annexation of crimea, it continues today with the destabilization of eastern ukraine. the responsibility of moscow is unambiguous, and it is all the more crushing because it is based on the flagrant violation of the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and, more importantly, the security guarantee given by russia in budapest in 1994! russia is breaking its word! this is extremely serious for the security and stability of the european continent, and we must unequivocally denounce these actions. the responses are obviously very timid and weak in comparison with the scale of the balance of power that moscow is imposing on us, but i believe that the european union is choosing the right tone through sanctions, which must be strengthened immediately, but also through diplomatic channels, and the discussions that will take place in geneva tomorrow are extremely important. europe must remain the preferred interlocutor or actor for diplomatic action, since there is no military solution to this crisis.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i thought that i would speak after the vote but i believe that the vote will be very positive so allow me now to congratulate ms[nbsp ]giannakou already and the whole parliament team for the work on this proposal. i believe that it is rather symbolic that we are going to adopt something in the last plenary session which will be very relevant for the next elections to this parliament.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, concerning the poc report on invasive alien species, i would like to use this occasion to draw your attention to the fact that a declaration on behalf of the commission was made with regard to the agreement reached between the co-legislators. this commission declaration will be transmitted to parliament’s services in writing and inserted in the report of proceedings of this plenary sitting for your consideration.
mr president, i would like to refer to rule 173 (1). i would like to ask the president for clarification. in voting on this resolution, we voted for amendment 61, paragraph 2. the resolution was adopted by a majority of 383 votes in favour, 179 against and 39 abstentions. in this amendment we asked that no appointments be made but that this be left to the next bureau of parliament. two days later, the bureau of parliament made the appointments. i would like to know why we are voting in this parliament, if the bureau can do whatever it wants? (applause) (sign of approval) i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. could the president explain to me the meaning of the vote in this house if the bureau does not want to respect them anyway?
in writing. the proposal aims to increase the mobility of workers by improving their pension rights. the mobility of workers is not an end in itself. however, allowing these 'mobile' workers to receive their supplementary pension rights is a minimum requirement. the council proposal incorporates parliament's amendments at first reading, in particular on the involvement of the social partners. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which aims to ensure that the rules governing the organisation of supplementary pension schemes do not hamper worker mobility. this text lays down common principles for improving the exercise of the right of free movement and the functioning of the internal market, principles which are part of the adaptation of the supplementary pension schemes already in force in the member states. it aims to reduce both the obstacles to free movement between member states and to mobility within a member state created by certain provisions of supplementary pension schemes.
in writing. with this text, we are putting in place a harmonised legislative framework for controls in the agri-food chain. it is appropriate to highlight the creation of a common entry sanitary document to be used by operators to prevent the mandatory arrival and dispatch of animals and goods from third countries. this is a necessary simplification of rules and controls to ensure the safety of the european agri-food chain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it creates harmonised and coherent control procedures to ensure compliance with food safety regulations. it thus encompasses in a single legislative text the official controls concerning all sectors of the agri-food chain. the report shall introduce a minimum frequency of controls based on risk and established in a differentiated manner for each product, process or activity. i would also like to stress the importance of unannounced checks to better detect fraud. the text also suggests the creation of european reference centres with the specific task of developing and validating the control methods to be used in the case of proven food fraud. i welcome the fact that the control bureaucracy has been reduced and that micro-enterprises can be exempted from part of the payment of the contributions to the compulsory fees and charges.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague mario pirillo on official controls to ensure compliance with food legislation. the text confirms the principle of checks based on a risk analysis and consolidates the rules applicable to checks carried out in the union's trade with third countries. coercive measures in the event of infringements by operators have been strengthened, which will reinforce the dissuasive effect of controls. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. this text strengthens the rules on official controls in agri-food and agriculture. parliament reinforces the requirement of independence of auditors. it is a good thing, because the european commission merely asked that they not be subject to conflicts of interest. the text also requires that these inspectors be "qualified, trained and in sufficient numbers". it is hypocritical with the austerity policies being carried out all over europe but positive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of whistle-blowers. but the text almost completely ignores the decisive role of customs officials in combating food fraud. it merely mentions the role of customs officials in controlling pets or assisting veterinary services. however, it is the free movement of goods throughout europe and the absence of protectionist measures that make our societies vulnerable to a large number of fraudulent transactions. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which will ensure a harmonised approach to official controls carried out to ensure compliance with eu agri-food chain rules. the purpose of this text is to modernise the implementing instruments as provided for in the existing regulation, in order to simplify the legislative framework. it establishes harmonised rules at eu level to ensure a comprehensive and consistent approach to official controls throughout the agri-food chain.
in writing. several recent cases have shown that, in the context of the food chain, official controls are an essential element in ensuring a high level of protection of human, animal and plant health. the legal framework that the union has developed so far remains generally effective in preventing risks: union products remain among the safest in the world, precisely because of the controls they are subject to. but the increasingly long and complex agri-food chain exposes the european union to new risks and requires continuous improvement of controls throughout the agri-food chain. the sector has thus been governed by some 15 pieces of legislation (eu regulations and directives). it was necessary to recreate a harmonized and comprehensive framework. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a thorough review of the existing provisions in order to eliminate the overlapping of the regulations.
in writing. this text rightly provides for uniform measures to be taken for the prevention and control of transmissible animal diseases. the establishment of a single and transparent regulatory framework is an effective way to ensure both animal welfare and food safety. this legislation is an effective response to preventing further food crises such as the so-called 'mad cow' crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marit paulsen which lays down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases communicable to humans. it codifies all existing legislation, simplifying, clarifying and bringing it closer to international standards. the introduction of this system is welcome to ensure optimum protection of man against diseases of animal origin, whether new or re-emerging. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to simplify and update european legislation on animal health, in particular by taking account of new diseases. it's necessary, you know. parliament has included a reference to the fact that animals must be regarded as 'sensitive beings'. this is a good thing, because animal welfare is very much linked to the health and treatment of animals. however, this text barely touches on the main animal health risk today: the race to gigantism and agricultural productivity and the proliferation of live animal transfers. the 'regulation provides the basis for a thorough evaluation and review of existing methods'. we are a long way from what we need: a radical and urgent break. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which lays down rules for the prevention and control of transmissible animal diseases and establishes a harmonised animal health strategy throughout the union. the purpose of this text is to establish a single, simplified, transparent and clear regulatory framework which systematically sets out the objectives, scope and principles of regulatory action in the field of animal health.
in writing. food safety must be a matter of concern throughout the european union. consumers must be assured that their products are safe to consume. this is one of the european market's surpluses. the european agri-food chain ensures that health protection standards are met. animal health is particularly important. we do not want to go back to the crisis of the mad cow disease, which caused enormous damage to the european agri-food chain. i am glad i voted in favour of this report. it will make it possible to monitor the legislation of the member states and to build up a harmonised body of rules. this will help us to strengthen prevention of animal diseases and to ensure a safer food chain.
in writing. in terms of animal health, european legislation was complex, jeopardising its effectiveness and clarity. the draft regulation brings together all the relevant european legislation in a single instrument to simplify and clarify the community framework and make it more responsive to new health emergencies. this regulation thus ensures a genuine legal framework for animal health, all the more so as it is closer to the standards of the world organisation for animal health. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this text provides for the standardization of protective measures against organisms harmful to plants. this includes plant breeding regulations. i particularly support the idea of a plant passport so that plants can move around the union. the use of such sustainable and safe instruments not only contributes to the competitiveness of european agriculture but can also encourage third countries to align their legislation with it.
in writing. i welcome the adoption, as part of the animal and plant health package, of the regulation on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants. the regulation provides for a list of union quarantine pests and for plant health prevention and inspection measures to detect the presence of pests in imports at the earliest possible stage. the problem arises, for example, on the côte d'azur with the red palm frog. however, i regret that the report does not go far enough and that amendments nos 78 to 85 which provide for the creation of a positive list have not been adopted. the control of imports would have been even more strengthened.
in writing. the globalisation of trade and climate change are facilitating the introduction and spread within the union of new organisms harmful to particularly dangerous plants. the current legislation in the field of plant health needs to be modernised. that is the purpose of this text. the parliament's report agrees that the use of pesticides should not be systematic and that prevention and an agronomic approach (crop rotation, etc.) should be given priority. this is a "reasonable struggle" approach that dates back more than thirty years. the report is, on the contrary, very timid about biological treatments and the promise of biodynamic crops. the latter imply strict control of inputs on land and also increased control of trade in plants and seeds which are now non-existent under the free trade and free competition promoted by the treaties. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which will ensure a harmonised design of protection measures against organisms harmful to plants. the aim of the text is to establish a strong, transparent and sustainable regulatory framework to protect plant health. overall, this new framework will strengthen existing synergies with the regulation on plant reproductive material, while eliminating duplication of effort and unnecessary constraints. in order to do this, the harmful organisms which are currently regulated by the so-called directives on the marketing of seeds and plant propagating material will now be covered by the proposed regulation.
in writing. as europeans, we are in favour of opening our market to products from third countries. this should not in any way prevent us from assuring european consumers that these products are safe. plants play an important role in the food chain, so it is essential to monitor them. we must have rules to ensure that plant pests do not enter europe. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. however, instead of a negative list of bodies with access to the european market as envisaged by the commission, a positive list would be more appropriate. we do not know what organisms may harm plants in the future. when it comes to the safety of european consumers, every effort must be made to achieve an optimal safety situation.
in writing. the aim of this report is to protect agriculture by preventing the entry and spread of pests within the european union. the current strategy, based on a negative list, lists plant products that are prohibited or subject to control before importation. by default, the rest of the plants can be imported without control. i have therefore chosen to support the approach of a more stringent positive list, which lists countries and products which do not present unacceptable dangers to agriculture and which can therefore be imported into the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which ensures a high level of consumer safety and protection for products circulating in the internal market. it is thus aimed at non-food manufactured consumer products. the creation of a compulsory marking of origin for these products is an important step forward in enhancing their traceability and thus ensuring their quality. this mandatory 'made in' marking is also important to promote products manufactured in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this legislative report on the proposal for a regulation on the safety of manufactured consumer products other than food, which aims to replace the existing 2001 directive, as it increases consumer protection. the existing rules have been clarified, modernised and strengthened, in particular by taking into account products that are attractive to children, by tightening the provisions on inspections, by increasing the obligations of economic operators in relation to product safety and by creating a pan-european injury database. i also welcome the adoption of the marking of origin at european level for products covered by this regulation, after months of very lively debate. such a system, which meets a real consumer demand, will make it possible to improve the traceability of products by helping to identify defective products in the production and marketing chain. it will also enable the european union to put itself on an equal footing with many of its trading partners who have already adopted such a system, and to enhance the value of products manufactured in the union, thus benefiting our companies.
in writing. this new consumer product regulation should provide better safety for consumers. the commission's proposal does not include the precautionary principle. it provides for a clear indication of the "real place of production" of the product, the famous "made in", which the right and the liberals opposed, criticizing a "protectionism in disguise" and introduces a new ce+ labelling (in addition to the existing ce mentioning the safety of the product) indicating its compliance with the union's rules on production and imports. the regulation also introduces sanctions for companies that will be used to finance market surveillance activities. companies that don't comply will be blacklisted. it called for the harmonization of sanctions between member states to avoid attempts at dumping. a case to be closely watched to avoid harmonisation from below. in order to support this resistance to productive dumping, i vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which will protect the functioning of the internal market for consumer products while guaranteeing consumers a high level of safety and health protection (the 'product safety and market surveillance' package). the s&d group fought for the obligation to label the country of origin ("made in"), with a strict definition of the last processing to avoid the addition of a label to give a place of origin in europe for a product made in asia. the other key point for us is the introduction of a voluntary additional label 'safety remaining in the eu' which aims to overcome the shortcomings of the current ec marking which is only declarative and does not guarantee conformity control by an independent accredited body.
in writing. european manufactured products face significant competition from third countries. the latter use dishonest processes to lower the cost of the finished product. underpaid workers, poor working conditions, and poor product quality are common in manufacturing. consumers must be assured in some way that the product they are buying is safe. i am very glad that i voted in favour of this report. it will allow the introduction of a system of marking origin, a 'made in'. this will enable consumers to trace the origin of the product so that they can be assured of the quality of what they are consuming. european products have an excellent reputation throughout the world. we must not hide from this and instead mark our products.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on product safety, which, together with the report on market surveillance, forms a coherent package designed to make our consumer products safer. i support the main changes brought about by this legislative package, in particular the tightening of requirements throughout the distribution chain, the greater clarity of the respective obligations of manufacturers, importers and distributors, the improved arrangements for dangerous or non-compliant products and the improved traceability of products. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that he has taken the initiative in this area. i do not have time to elaborate on the legal, economic, political or even common sense arguments in favour of this provision, but i would simply point out that i have been fighting for years to support the mandatory indication of origin. the commission proposal seems to me to be very cleverly worded on this point, allowing either the 'made in pays' or the 'made in eu' label for products made in the union and i have therefore fiercely fought the attempt to remove it, as has a large majority of the house, and i welcome that.
in writing. this text concerns the revision of the general product safety directive and concerns manufactured consumer products other than food. this revision is due to the confusion between different european legislative texts among economic operators and the competent national authorities, thus affecting the good efficiency of market surveillance. the report focuses on two key measures: origin marking and safety marking. as regards origin marking, it was important to support the mandatory indication of the country of origin of the product or 'made in' on the product itself or on its packaging. this marking of origin allows products to be traced, establishes genuine consumer confidence and enhances the value of products manufactured in the european union. i am, however, against the safety label 'eu safety tested' because of the negative conclusions of the impact assessment. the labelling would not bring any benefits to consumers, the costs of such a system would be a burden on smes and a costly information campaign would be necessary. in view of these significant advances in consumer product safety, i supported this report.
in writing. i supported this report on a proposal for a regulation on product market surveillance, as it strengthens market surveillance mechanisms and thus consumer protection. the clear distinction between 'non-compliant product' and 'product presenting an emerging risk' makes it possible to apply procedures of varying degrees of strictness, depending on the degree of danger. the obligations of the supervisory authorities have also been strengthened in the context of product control. in addition, a pan-european database of consumer injuries and accidents has been set up, which will be maintained by the competent national supervisory authorities and managed by the european commission. finally, the sanctions regime was tightened, in particular by taking into account the intentional nature of the infringement and the publication of a blacklist of economic operators who had intentionally and repeatedly infringed the provisions of the regulation.
in writing. the european parliament proposed in a resolution in 2011 that the commission establish a common european framework for market surveillance covering all products circulating in the internal market, including those imported into the union. this proposal follows that request. the proposal is part of a wider package on product safety and aims to ensure that non-compliant operators do not gain an advantage in the market over compliant operators. binding provisions in the form of administrative sanctions are provided for. the ultimate aim is always to increase the free movement of goods, but for once we make sure that they meet safety or environmental standards. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation on market surveillance which will unify the legal framework for market surveillance and border controls on industrial products and strengthen market surveillance to ensure product safety, compliance with european regulations and fair competition between operators.
in writing. the european union is committed to accepting only products on its market that are safe and harmless to consumers. this is one of the european market's surpluses. we must remain vigilant about the arrival on european territory of products which do not comply with european standards or which present any risk to consumers. i am glad i voted in favour of this report. the need to harmonise european legislation in this area was urgent in order to ensure the most effective management of market surveillance.
in writing. this report is part of the regulatory clarification for market surveillance of non-food products following the overlap of market surveillance rules between different existing legislation at european level, leading to some confusion. i have supported this report which will allow for the introduction of a clear distinction between 'a non-compliant product' and 'a product presenting an emerging risk'; the objective is that this type of product is not placed on the market of the european union. the text also introduces the use of the rapid alert system (rapex) and strengthens the obligations of market surveillance authorities in relation to product controls. finally, a pan-european injury database will be created and the penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of the regulation will be strengthened.
in writing. this text provides for measures to monitor financial markets and for requirements to publish information on trading and transactions. this draft resolution is a smokescreen, under the guise of greater transparency we are not tackling speculation itself. on the contrary, the laroisière group which drafted the document on which the draft resolution is based believes that 'excessive regulation, which would hamper financial innovation and therefore undermine the growth of the economy in general, must of course be avoided'. the former imf director, jacques de laroisière, gives us the substance of this resolution, a little transparency but no regulation. we want both transparency and supervision of the financial markets, but also strict regulation of them, so i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to adopt new rules for more efficient, resilient and transparent european financial markets (over-the-counter derivatives, central counterparties and central securities depositories). the text lays down requirements for the publication of information on trading and the reporting of transactions to the competent authorities and removes obstacles to non-discriminatory access to clearing systems. it also provides for specific surveillance measures concerning financial instruments and derivatives positions and services provided by third-country firms which do not have a branch.
in writing. the previous directive allowing for the emergence of free competition on financial markets was a failure. the rapporteur is surprised: 'the benefits of this increased competition have not been equally shared by all market players and have not always been passed on to final investors'. the commission is also proposing to make financial markets more transparent. it protects mainly speculative financial operations. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which aims to adopt new rules for more efficient, resilient and transparent european financial markets (recast of the directive on markets in financial instruments - the mfi directive). this text amends certain requirements concerning the provision of investment services, the scope of the exemptions provided for in the current directive, the rules on the organisation and conduct of investment firms, the organisational requirements applicable to trading venues, the powers of the competent authorities, sanctions and the rules applicable to third country firms.
in writing. the alignment of the regulation on community statistics on the trading of goods between member states strengthens the coherence of european legislation with the new institutional framework. it seems to me appropriate to seek to streamline the production of community statistics on trade in goods between member states, in particular by clarifying the definition of statistical value. however, it is important that the exchange of data does not impose excessive administrative and financial burdens on member states and the competitiveness of companies established in the european union.
in writing. the report deals in particular with the modalities for the collection of annual statistics on trade and exchange between member states, which are commendable principles. but this is a transfer of power to the commission: an illegitimate and undemocratic body. moreover, the guarantees on confidentiality are too weak, whereas this is a major issue for having accurate and therefore reliable statistics. the free movement of goods is well-intentioned and does not represent an additional administrative burden. but the context of "low cost" or even "free communication of information" is absurd and illusory. public statistical quality comes at a price and must be afforded. i'm not going to.
in writing. i abstained on this regulation which amends certain requirements concerning the provision of investment services, the scope of the exemptions provided for in the current directive, the rules on the organisation and conduct of investment firms, the organisational requirements applicable to trading venues, the powers of the competent authorities, sanctions and the rules applicable to third country firms.
in writing. this draft resolution outlines a regulation on securities transactions and central securities depositories (csds). but the commission wants to regulate these areas only to achieve the single market and to ensure free competition. the draft resolution, which calls for better regulation at eu level, removes control from the member states over the national central securities depository. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which will make financial markets safer and more efficient by establishing uniform requirements for regulations and central securities depositories (csds). the aim of this text is to remedy the lack of security and efficiency of securities settlement operations and to remove the obstacles to the functioning of the internal market resulting from divergences between the national regulations applicable to these operations and the activities of csds, which ensure the functioning of the settlement systems.
in writing. this text sets requirements for marine equipment to bring it into line with international safety standards, for example by introducing enhanced control mechanisms. in particular, he pays particular attention to the tests prior to launching. i particularly welcome the introduction of a declaration of conformity which must be kept for ten years. this is a necessary step towards greater safety for european ships.
in writing. the report aims to promote the use of marine instruments complying with international safety standards on ships flying the flag of a member state of the european union. that's good. it lays down the responsibility of the flag state to ensure that only duly approved instruments are carried on board ships flying its flag. this measure of respect for the sovereignty of states seems logical. but to be effective, it should be accompanied by a drastic fight against the measures taken by some eu member states which offer flags of convenience (such as malta) or protection measures against unfair competition which endangers maritime safety and the marine environment. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive, which aims to strengthen the mechanisms for implementing and monitoring its application, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for marine equipment, and to strengthen maritime safety measures. it aims to simplify the regulatory environment by ensuring the harmonised application and implementation of the international maritime organisation (imo) requirements throughout the union.
in writing. several recent disasters (erika, concordia, etc.) have reminded us of the importance of preventive measures in maritime safety. the most effective measures will be taken at european level. i therefore welcome the adoption of this directive which should both simplify the approval procedures for marine equipment and make the controls on such equipment more efficient. parliament has secured the retention of the reference to electronic labels, which will facilitate the fight against counterfeiting. these new provisions guarantee safer and more environmentally friendly ships and reduce administrative costs for our companies and administrations.
in writing. european harmonisation of legislation on pressure equipment is justified. it seems to me important to adapt these laws to the common framework for the marketing of products and to the new provisions introduced for the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. such a measure will in particular help to increase the confidence of producers and consumers in these pressure equipment products.
in writing. i supported this legislative report on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of pressure equipment, as it allows for a technical alignment of the existing directive 97/23/ec with two texts previously adopted by the european parliament (the 2008 decision on a common framework for the marketing of products and the 2008 regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures). the aim of this alignment is to make european legislation on health and safety more effective. the text adopted by the plenary confirms an agreement reached in the trilogue between the three institutions, the european parliament, the european commission and the council.
in writing. this report amends the european commission's proposal to revise the product harmonisation directive in the context of the implementation of the new legislative framework adopted in 2008. the text concerns pressure equipment, i.e. all equipment for the production and storage of vapours or gases at a pressure higher than atmospheric pressure. all of these equipment can present a significant risk in the event of a failure. the adoption of these texts will strengthen producer and consumer confidence by clarifying the obligations of economic operators. it will also provide member state authorities with more effective tools to carry out market surveillance checks, which will lead to an overall reduction in non-compliant and dangerous products on the market. nevertheless, the aim is as always to achieve the internal market by promoting competition. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which recasts directive 97/23/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to pressure equipment. the text includes measures to address the problem of non-compliance by clarifying the obligations of economic operators and setting stricter traceability requirements. it also introduces measures to ensure the quality of the work of conformity assessment bodies, by strengthening the notification requirements, a revised notification procedure, the definition of requirements for notifying authorities and stricter information obligations.
in writing. this is the recast of the brussels i regulation on international jurisdiction. this regulation lays down the rules on the recognition and enforcement of judgments given by courts of other member states. for the purposes of the brussels i regulation, the unified patent court and the benelux court of justice will have to be treated in the same way as 'member state courts'. since the question of patentability of the living organism was not resolved when the unitary european patent was created in line with my position at the time, i shall abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation amending regulation (eu) no[nbsp ]1215/2012 ('brussels i regulation') concerning jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the text is intended, first of all, to allow the entry into force of the jub agreement, since the jub agreement makes the entry into force of the agreement conditional on the entry into force of the amendment to regulation (ec) no 1215/2012. the purpose of this regulation is also to ensure that the agreement and the protocol amending the benelux treaty of 1965 are compatible with the brussels i regulation.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to define the new regulation on the organisation of a labour force sample survey in the european community, in order to bring it into line with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. one of the objectives of the european union is to work towards full employment and social progress. such a text will enable us to have reliable statistics and surveys on the situation of employed and unemployed workers in order to combat unemployment more effectively, while respecting data protection and privacy.
in writing. the advantages (subsidies to the national statistical institutes and the desire to have reliable and comparable labour market data) do not compensate for the strong disadvantages of such a proposal: the increase in the power of the commission, an illegitimate, undemocratic and blindly liberal body, will have the consequence of imposing themes of the complementary modules on the national statistical institutes (employment survey of insee in france). given the lack of interest shown by the european authorities in tax niches, the limitation of very high wages or the fight against precariousness, it is better for french statistics to retain sovereignty in the choice of the contents of its surveys. i abstain in order not to block the funds which could be made available for the development of the national statistical institutes but refuse to vote in favour, in order not to be forced to follow the commission's dictates even in our employment statistics, even down to the sample size!
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which aligns council regulation (ec) no[nbsp]577/98 on the organisation of a labour force sample survey in the community with the treaty on the functioning of the eu (commission delegated and implementing powers) and incorporates a provision on financing into the regulation.
in writing. this text ensures adequate funding for the activities of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) in the field of combating pollution at sea. this agency became essential after the erika oil tanker disaster. i therefore think it is important that it should be able to benefit from an adequate financial envelope to carry out its actions in favour of environmental protection.
in writing. this text lays down the tasks and budget of the european maritime safety agency. it gives the agency three new tasks, two to extend its action to pollution from oil and gas installations and one to intervene in the maritime space of non-eu states. the budget allocated by the commission (€165 million by 2020) was totally inadequate to deal with these new tasks. parliament proposes to increase this budget by eur 25 million over the period. that's good. but i cannot support a text which is preparing to deal with future disasters arising from the exploitation of offshore hydrocarbons, which i want banned. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will provide financial security, over a multiannual period, for the financing of the tasks assigned to the european maritime safety agency (emsa) in the field of combating marine pollution. this new envelope is intended to enable the european maritime safety agency (emsa) to maintain its network of 17 pollution control vessels spread over most european maritime areas, thus strengthening the capacity of states affected by marine pollution to intervene. these ships can intervene within 24 hours. states may apply for this assistance through the community civil protection mechanism. the emsa provides financial cover for vessels while they are on standby but the cost of cleaning operations is borne by the member states. the agency also provides satellite monitoring and detection of oil pollution.
in writing. this paper sets out how the european union can help create an environment favourable to job creation by enterprises, companies and start-ups. it is essential to focus on smes, which are the real backbone of our economies. encouraging smes to research and innovation is essential to achieving such a job boosting objective. the european union must also focus more on training and education. the skills mismatch is a real problem at a time of considerable unemployment and 1.85 million jobs are currently unfilled in the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to encourage innovative initiatives for entrepreneurs. with an average rate of 11% in the member states, unemployment is a priority and citizens expect the european union to provide concrete responses. in view of this, europe must create a favourable environment for smes, which are the main creators of jobs. we need to develop the knowledge of smes and micro-enterprises for access to finance, and encourage the development of entrepreneurship among the youngest. we also need to strengthen the skills and training of our workforce, which is a key element of our competitiveness. finally, it should be stressed that the development of smes and the creation of jobs require the reduction of the bureaucratic burdens that stifle them.
in writing. the report suggests ways to build a business-friendly environment for growth and employment. the banal litany of the liberal creed. nothing new, the solutions proposed are always the same. these include: reducing 'burdens', tax relief, removing regulatory barriers to labour mobility, keeping older workers in the labour market and developing entrepreneurship through the 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' programme. in short, it is about "removing unnecessary barriers that impose unreasonable costs on businesses and prevent them from developing". i am voting against these liberal recipes, whose failures are evident wherever they are introduced.
in writing. public policies for economic growth are nothing without the help of the private sector. we cannot achieve the recovery of the european economy by public policies alone. we also need the companies. they are the real job creators. we must help businesses to unlock their full potential for creating jobs. we see, for example, the important role of smes in innovation and growth. improving access to finance, encouraging entrepreneurship and adapting the regulatory framework will be the way out of the crisis. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. it stresses the importance of combining public policies and private sector improvement in managing an unprecedented crisis.
in writing. currently, 18[nbsp] to 28[nbsp]% of students in the eu have little access to and use of the internet, either at school or at home. these provisions for the development of new teaching techniques and resources would not only be of use to pupils and students but also to adult learners in any vocational training. it is also a useful tool for facilitating the learning of foreign languages. the modernisation of teaching tools is necessary, as long as it gives priority to the so-called fundamental teachings. this is what this text encourages.
in writing. what should be the role of information and communication technologies in education? the report says that this will help to reduce the "costs" of the public system further and equip future workers with "skills adapted to the future labour market". i am opposed to the narrow, utilitarian and restrictive view of this social democrat rapporteur. digital technology, and in particular free educational resources, are not just skills but can and should be a comprehensive tool for training future citizens and raising the level of skills of workers. it is also essential to explain how to use this tool to understand the social debates it raises. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which responds to the suggestions made by the european commission. this report supports the european commission's proposals to: improve the recognition of skills acquired online and support the acquisition of digital skills by teachers, encourage open access to publicly funded teaching materials and improve broadband connectivity and ict equipment in classrooms.
in writing. some skills are essential in the labour market and yet are not taught sufficiently or properly. this is the case for digital skills, for example: it is estimated that 90% of jobs will require digital skills by 2020. but today, 40%[nbsp] of europeans aged 16 to 74 say they have limited or no skills in information and communication technologies (ict). open and free online training opportunities are effective ways of responding, as they allow for tailor-made training. indeed, these new technologies have enabled education and training institutions to reach thousands of learners in the union, including in the outermost regions, and around the world. i supported this report because it makes concrete proposals for developing this new type of education at european level, which seems to me to be a positive consequence of recent developments in the harmonization of vocational qualifications, but also of the deepening of the internal market.
in writing. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), signed in 1973, aims to ensure that international trade in wild animal and plant specimens does not threaten their survival. trade must not undermine the preservation of biodiversity and that is why i voted in favour of this text, which is simply a legal update following the adoption of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the groote report on the protection of species of fauna and flora through the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). the aim of the convention is to ensure that international trade in wild animals and plants does not endanger their survival. the species covered by cites are grouped into three lists. each list corresponding to a distinct degree of protection. the amendments made by the recast of council regulation (ec) no 338/97 are all motivated by the need to update the proposal following the adoption of the treaty of lisbon by replacing the obsolete provisions in the area of comitology.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to reform legislation on the protection of wild fauna and flora by controlling trade in them. regularly updated regulations on such trade are relevant because they concern a sensitive area: namely the fauna and flora that surround us, including endangered species. clearer and more comprehensive regulations will provide better protection for wild fauna and flora. the commission's role in the implementation of the treaty is to ensure that the union's institutions and bodies are able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the union's objectives are met.
in writing. i am pleased that the report on the protection of wild fauna and flora by controlling trade in them has been adopted. it is a recast of the existing regulation to enable the european commission to exercise the implementing powers conferred on it by the lisbon treaty to establish, for example, the modalities of restrictions on the import of species. parliament called for the commission's action in this area to take the form of delegated acts and not implementing acts. negotiations with the council will continue during the next parliamentary term.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to protect the health of european plants and flora by strengthening prevention, surveillance and the means of action in the event of outbreaks of organisms harmful to plants in the european union. the report proposes, among other things, to give parliament more powers to establish the list of priority pests, to strengthen public information when buying plants, and to better regulate online sales. finally, it improves border control procedures to prevent consignments of infested plants from circulating freely on the internal market.
in writing. i fully support the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cities). while the draft report allows for more effective operational implementation of the convention in some respects, the substance of the text remains an application of the lisbon treaty which aims to transfer the competences of the member states to the european commission. this is not acceptable without democratic control. especially when you know the lobbying efforts for the trade in protected species. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which introduces a limited number of amendments to the commission's proposal as regards the commission's implementing powers. these powers will be conferred on the commission in particular as regards the definition of the presentation, model and format of certain documents, including licences, import notifications and certificates to be issued.
in writing. this agreement allows eu vessels, mainly from spain, portugal, france and italy, to fish in seychelles' waters. it is part of the network of tuna fisheries agreements covering the indian ocean. the agreement also aims to promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the seychelles' fishing zone, in the interests of both parties. the new protocol provides for a total financial contribution of eur 30[nbsp ]700[nbsp ]000 for the whole period. i therefore voted in favour of this text, since it is a good agreement for both parties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the patrao neves report on the protocol to the fisheries agreement between the european union and the seychelles. this tuna agreement is mutually beneficial, allowing 46 eu vessels to fish in seychelles' waters while respecting the scientific recommendations of the seychelles fishing authority for tuna conservation. in return, the european union provides a financial envelope to support the seychelles' fishing industry. the agreement contains clauses on respect for human rights and on scientific cooperation and monitoring.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to conclude a new fisheries protocol between the european union and seychelles. i am in favour of this partnership agreement which must benefit both parties. it increases the fishing opportunities available to the european fleet while respecting the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the seychelles' fishing zone. it also lays down the financial contribution provided for in the partnership agreement for seychelles. such an agreement also allows us to continue the political dialogue.
in writing. this report approves a new fisheries agreement with seychelles for 6 years. 46european vessels would be allowed to fish off the seychelles for about 50 000 tonnes of tuna per year. in return, the european union would pay €5 million a year to the seychelles. i reject the logic of fishing on a massive scale far from the police. i also object to the fact that this protocol was submitted to us in april when it has been in force since january! i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision authorising the council to conclude a new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the seychelles.
in writing. i voted in favour of this good fisheries agreement because it offers european union vessels fishing opportunities in the fishing zone of the union of the comoros, within the limits of the available surplus. the text also establishes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the union of the comoros's fishing zone.
in writing. i supported the walesa report on the eu-comoros fisheries protocol. this tuna agreement allows 42 tuna vessels and 20 longliners to fish in comorian waters in exchange for financial compensation that finances both access to waters and the sectoral development of fisheries in the comoros. this agreement respects the conservation measures established by the indian ocean tuna commission. this agreement is beneficial to both parties.
in writing. this text encourages the signing of a partnership in the fisheries sector between the union and the comoros. this partnership would provide additional fishing opportunities for european vessels in the comorian fishing zone. an adequate financial contribution shall then be granted to the comoros. such an agreement would complete the series of partnerships registered by the union in the pacific to promote sustainable fisheries.
in writing. this report approves a new fisheries agreement with the comoros. 62 european vessels would be allowed to fish off the comoros some 6 000 tonnes a year. in return, the european union would pay €600,000 per year to the comoros (€300,000 for access rights to the fishing zone and €300,000 for the development of the local fisheries policy). i reject the logic of going fishing away from the eyes of the controllers. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the control of fishing activities off the comoros. and that the priority in the region is the fight against piracy. on this point, the rapporteur does nothing but complain that this reduces fishing capacity for european vessels. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision authorising the council to conclude a protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with the comoros. the protocol aims in particular to provide fishing opportunities for european union vessels in the comorian fishing zone within the limits of the available leftover catches.
in writing. i voted in favour of this protocol concluded by the european union and the republic of madagascar. it shall fix the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement in force between the two parties. this fisheries agreement allows european union vessels, mainly from spain, portugal and france, to fish in malagasy waters and is part of the network of tuna fisheries agreements covering the indian ocean.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rivellini report on the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and madagascar. this important tuna agreement allows the development of sectoral support to madagascar in exchange for access to european union vessels to fish part of the surplus fishery in malagasy waters. this agreement is also important for the long-line fishing industry in réunion. as the constitutional order is respected in madagascar following the parliamentary elections in november 2013, the agreement could be concluded.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to conclude a new protocol agreed between the european union and madagascar setting out the fishing opportunities and financial compensation provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement in force between the two parties. i voted in favour of this text because it encourages responsible fishing in madagascar, while offering fishing opportunities for eu tuna vessels. this protocol thus benefits both parties adequately.
in writing. this report approves a new fisheries agreement with madagascar for 2013 and 2014. 96 european vessels would be allowed to fish 15 000 tonnes of tuna per year off madagascar, 1 700 tonnes more each year than under the previous agreement. in compensation, the european union would pay 1.5 million euros a year to madagascar (975 000 euros for access rights to the fishing zone and 550 000 euros for the development of the local fisheries policy, if there is one left after that). i reject this logic of going fishing on the other side of the world. i also object to the fact that the new agreement is being put to the vote in parliament more than a year after the date of its entry into force. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision, which aims to conclude a new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar. the general objective of this decision is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and madagascar in order to consolidate the partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the malagasy fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
in writing. readmission agreements between the european union and partner countries are essential agreements because they allow for the rapid return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin, in compliance with their rights and in cooperation with the authorities of the countries concerned. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement concerning illegal immigrants from south korea. this agreement is linked to the more general agreement on relations between the european union and the republic of korea.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to deprive irregular migrants of their rights by applying simplified and expeditious return procedures to their countries of origin. the recommendation even considers that these manu militari returns of illegal migrants constitute the "key to the new framework agreement". i vote strongly against that part of the agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision, which seeks to approve, on behalf of the european union, the draft framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part. the new framework agreement will allow the union to expand its role and influence on the korean peninsula. the union will use this new framework agreement to defend european values and promote practical cooperation in a wide range of areas of common interest.
in writing. this eu-republic of korea agreement covers all aspects of the growing cooperation between these two geographical areas, with the exception of the issues related to the readmission of illegal immigrants, which is dealt with in a specific agreement. human rights, the fight against climate change and terrorism are at the heart of the agreement. south korea shares a number of important european values and i look forward to the strengthening of this bilateral relationship. i therefore voted in favour of this framework agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will allow the establishment of a framework agreement between the european union and south korea. the european union can thus expand its role and influence on the korean peninsula through such an agreement. through this agreement, the european union will also be able to promote concrete cooperation actions, whether at bilateral or global level. the conclusion of this new framework agreement also strengthens in a beneficial way the relations between the european union and the countries of the association of southeast asian nations, which have a high growth potential.
in writing. this agreement with korea promotes cooperation on interesting elements; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the agreement is part of the wto's agreements, including the general agreement on trade in services, and promotes the lowering of non-tariff barriers in order to "avoid trade barriers". it took more than four years for this text to reach the european parliament and in the meantime the agreement has already entered into force. why ask our opinion ? parliament still arrives after the battle. just to record the whole thing. for these reasons, i vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision recommending that the draft framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, be approved on behalf of the european union. the new framework agreement will allow the union to expand its role and influence on the korean peninsula. the union will use this new framework agreement to defend european values and promote practical cooperation in a wide range of areas of common interest.
in writing. this is a simple technical update of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and montenegro to take account of croatia's accession to the european union. i voted in favour of this amendment. i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my position on future enlargements of the european union: we must go deeper before enlarging and not continue to enlarge too quickly. however, the european states are destined to join the european union in the long term.
in writing. by voting in favour of this text, we give our consent to the conclusion of a protocol between the european community and its member states and montenegro, to take account of croatia's accession to the european union. the effects of croatia's accession must be taken into account in the preparation of trade agreements. this protocol contains in particular interesting provisions on agricultural concessions and fishery products, with a view to the conclusion of a stabilisation and association agreement.
in writing. this text simply aligns the law of the union by integrating the last member state to join the others, already signatories to the agreement with montenegro. but i am completely opposed to the conditions imposed in these stabilisation and association agreements. the council also called for the establishment of a european union-wide system of customs union with the countries of the former soviet union. this is all so disgusting ! i am also opposed to the enlargement of the eu under the present conditions and therefore to the accession of croatia, and i am voting against any further enlargement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision giving my consent to the signing of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and montenegro, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the main provisions concern agricultural concessions, fishery products and rules of origin.
as a neighbouring country with many shared values with the european union, georgia is an important partner. it is in the interest of both parties to allow georgia to participate in certain union programmes on a case-by-case basis. so i supported this agreement.
in writing. this protocol opens the way to cooperation with georgia in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science. but it should be noted that these partnership and cooperation agreements increasingly represent a gateway to other agreements, the 'deep and comprehensive free trade agreements', the leading example of which is the case of ukraine. and in the present context, it is also a question of isolating russia a little more from the eastern partnership countries, of which georgia is a member. the europeans have nothing to gain from an escalation of tensions in the region, nor do the georgians. in these circumstances i shall vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and georgia establishing the general principles for the participation of georgia in union programmes. the european parliament welcomes the conclusion of the protocol, which will pave the way for georgia's gradual accession to or increased participation in certain union programmes in the fields of culture, education, the environment, technology and science, and will intensify people-to-people contacts and cooperation between the parties.
in writing. this is a consultation procedure: the council of the european union consults the european parliament on the authorization of portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty in the autonomous region of madeira to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed there and, in the autonomous region of the azores, to liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed there. i think that this is a legitimate measure and i voted in favour of this authorization.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hübner report authorising portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty until 31 december 2013 in the autonomous region of madeira and the azores to rum and liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed there. this low rate is justified by the small size and fragmentation of farms and their low level of mechanization, which undermines the economic dynamism of these outermost regions. it helps to offset the extra cost of transporting raw materials and installing equipment in these remote island regions. the renewal of that authorisation is justified in order to avoid hindering the development of those outermost regions without distorting competition within the internal market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which will allow the renewal, until 31 december 2020, of the authorisation to apply a reduced rate of excise duty in the autonomous region of madeira to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed there, and in the autonomous region of the azores to liqueurs and eaux-de-vie produced and consumed there. these regions have higher than average production and marketing costs due to their remote geographical location. i therefore fully support this new authorization, because it does not distort the internal market and it helps the development of the outermost regions.
in writing. portugal is currently authorised to apply a reduced excise duty rate to rum and liqueurs in the autonomous region of madeira and to liqueurs and spirits in the autonomous region of the azores. this derogation is allowed due to the small size and fragmentation of farms, as well as their low level of mechanisation, and to compensate for the additional cost of transporting raw materials and installing equipment in these remote island regions. portugal is requesting that authorisation be extended until 2020. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a new regulation on the establishment of a european network of border inspection posts. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision authorising portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty in the autonomous region of madeira to rum and liqueurs produced and consumed there and in the autonomous region of the azores to liqueurs and spirits produced and consumed there. portugal requested the renewal of this authorisation until 31 december 2020 and the commission considered that the renewal was justified. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
in writing. this is also a consultation procedure, this time concerning a specific tax for the canary islands. the aiem tax (arbitrio sobre los importaciones y entregas de mercancías en las islas canarias) is intended to replace the tax on production and imports. this tax takes account of the handicaps faced by industrial production in the canary islands, where the service sector is largely predominant. i think that this is a relevant system and i voted in favour of the council's proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the hübner report on the reductions or exemptions from the aeim for certain products produced locally in the canary islands for the period 2014-2020. the commission has confirmed that the particular characteristics of the canary islands are detrimental to the development of certain products and lead to additional costs for local operators. it is therefore justified to maintain the exemption of the iaem for a list of locally produced industrial products. this measure is reasonable and does not undermine the integrity and consistency of the union legal order.
in writing. by voting for this text, we allow spain to apply tax exemptions or reductions for certain products produced locally in the canary islands. far from distorting competition within the eu, these provisions are necessary to support the development of the canary islands, which are facing additional costs due to their isolation, the small size of the local market and the underdeveloped nature of export activity. this is therefore an appropriate measure.
in writing. council decision no 2 of 20 june 2002 authorises spain to provide, until 31 december 2011, for exemptions or reductions from the 'arbitrio sobre importaciones y entregas de mercancías en las islas canarias' (aiem) tax applicable to certain products produced locally in the canary islands. the council has already extended its period of application until 31 december 2013. the report before us proposes to extend its application for the period 2014-2020. this decision will support the diversification of the canary islands' economy and reduce its dependence on tourism. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision on the tax regime for the canary islands. on 4[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2013, the spanish authorities requested the commission to prepare a council decision authorising spain to apply exemptions or reductions from the iaem to certain products manufactured locally in the canary islands for the period 2014-2020, amending the list of products and the maximum rates applicable to some of them. the commission confirmed that it was justified to maintain the exemption of the iaem for a list of locally manufactured industrial products. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
in writing. the grant of the sea is a very old french tax on products imported and exported to the overseas regions. since these regions have particular economic difficulties, particularly those linked to their remoteness, this tax must be adapted so as not to undermine the economic development of these regions. that is why i am in favour of extending the current exemptions beyond 1 july 2014. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to extend the current system of 'grant of sea' in the french overseas departments. these are tax exemptions or reductions for a number of products manufactured in these outermost regions, in order to compensate for the handicaps suffered by local production. the extension of the text is only six months, the time to analyse the list of new products for which france wishes to apply this taxation system. there is a need to help the outermost regions to have sustained trade, including through differentiated taxation.
in writing. the commission authorises france to apply, until 1 july 2014, exemptions or reductions from the 'grant de mer' tax for a number of products manufactured in its outermost regions. the aim is to increase competitiveness and to offset the additional production costs resulting from remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, the need to build up larger stocks, the small size of the local market and the underdeveloped export activity. france has requested that a differentiated taxation system similar to the one currently in place be maintained until 31 december 2020. however, the commission considers that the examination of the lists of products for which france wishes to apply a differentiated taxation system is a very long task which cannot be completed before the expiry of the scheme on 1 july 2014. the absence of any proposal before that date would risk creating a legal vacuum in that it would prohibit the application of any differentiated taxation in the french outermost regions. the commission has therefore decided to extend these exemptions for a further period of six months before a new proposal is made. i vote for it.
in writing. this report concerns a proposal to extend the sea grant regime until 31 december 2014 for guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. in principle, no tax differentiation is possible in the french overseas departments between local products and those from the metropolitan area or other eu member states. however, in view of the specific characteristics of the outermost regions, derogations are provided for to protect the local economy. the report proposes to extend these derogations until 31 december so that the commission can assess the tax provisions proposed by france. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2004/162/ec on the system of granting of a licence in the french overseas departments as regards its period of application. france has requested the maintenance until 31 december 2020 of a differentiated taxation system similar to the one currently in place. however, the commission considers that the examination of the lists of products for which france wishes to apply a differentiated taxation system is a very long task which cannot be completed before the expiry of decision 2004/162/ec on 1 july 2014. the commission therefore proposes to extend the validity of decision 2004/162/ec for a further period of six months in order to allow it to complete its examination and to present a balanced proposal which respects the various interests involved. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'.
in writing. the aim is to simplify the procedure for parliamentary questions. oral questions in plenary will be grouped together in a 90-minute session in the presence of two commissioners. questions will no longer be submitted in advance in writing. in addition, written questions will now be limited to a maximum of 5 questions per member per month to the commission and 6 per month to the central bank, in order to limit the abuses that can be seen today. i am in favour of these reforms, and i have therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. these amendments are a cruel fraud. behind the appearance of technicality and almost no political stake, the aim is to reduce the european parliamentarians' meagre rights and powers of initiative in matters of policy. the only allegedly democratic development is the choice of the draw in the organisation of question time, in the name, it seems, of objectivity. a rather paltry advance. the other proposals concern limiting the number of questions a member of parliament can put to the community institutions, whether the commission, the european council or the ecb, to one question a month, removing the possibility of putting a priority question once a month and strengthening the president's control over the admissibility of questions. all this clearly goes against the rights and powers of initiative of the european parliamentarians. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the amendment of the european parliament's rules of procedure on parliamentary questions. the report proposes, firstly, that the selection of members invited to put questions under the system of inquiry interventions be replaced by a system of drawing lots, which guarantees complete objectivity, and, secondly, that questions should not be submitted in writing in advance and their admissibility checked, unless the questions are not directly related to the specific horizontal theme chosen.
in writing. this proposal is of a technical nature and aims to amend article 90 of the european parliament's rules of procedure, which concerns international agreements. the aim is to correct a discrepancy between the wording of article 90 (5) of the regulation and article 218 (5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which does not mention the association of the european parliament when the council adopts a decision authorising the signing of an international agreement. parliament's rules of procedure must therefore be brought into line with the treaty. i voted in favour of this technical measure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the amendment of article 90 which aims to correct a discrepancy between the text of article 90 (5) of the regulation and article 218 (5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this report aims at compliance with the treaty and allows the european parliament to intervene at any stage of the procedure to clarify its position with a view to approval.
in writing. this report introduces a minor change in the role of parliament in the conclusion of international agreements. parliament can now express its opinion by way of recommendations until the conclusion of the agreement and not only during the negotiations. it 's crumbs ! i abstain without conviction in order not to prevent parliament from extending its powers in terms of international agreements.
in writing. the proposal is to amend parliament's rules of procedure to introduce the possibility of electronic signatures. i am in favour of this development, and i have therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. this amendment to the european parliament's regulation allowing the introduction of electronic signatures in european parliament documents is a positive signal for facilitating procedures and the dissemination of documents in electronic format. since documents can then be prepared, signed and distributed electronically, the european parliament also takes a responsible attitude towards the environment and paper economy. this is a welcome step.
in writing. this motion for a resolution contains two amendments aimed at providing that parliament's documents may be prepared, signed and distributed in electronic form, with the bureau deciding on the technical characteristics and presentation of this electronic format. since this is a purely organisational matter, there is no a priori reason to oppose it. it also involves a choice that has an environmental impact. i vote for it.
in writing. the report is essentially technical in nature and i voted in favour of it, since it allows the operation of the european investment fund (eif) to be adapted to the implementation of the horizon 2020 programme and the shift2rail joint venture, the aim of which will be to develop research and innovation in the railway sector in order to increase the role of the railway sector in the transport sector as a whole.
in writing. this report proposes various budgetary adjustments following regulatory changes since the adoption of the 2014 budget. this includes taking into account the recapitalisation of the european investment fund and the creation of the shift2rail joint undertaking. as i disapprove of the objectives set for these two bodies and as i also opposed the european budget for 2014 which is an austerity budget, i can only vote against these budgetary adjustments.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget (pbr) no[nbsp ]1 for the financial year 2014 which concerns a number of technical adjustments to the budgetary structure and comments, which are necessary for the proper implementation of the 2014 budget, in the light of the latest legislative decisions and political guidelines, in particular the immediate need to facilitate access to finance for smes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it aims to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the management and control of noise around eu airports.
in writing. with this text we wanted to introduce noise-related operating restrictions at airports in the european union. however, it was important to adopt a balanced approach to implementing these measures. it seems to me therefore quite consistent to adopt the noise abatement measures which are the most cost-effective. this text provides an adequate response to noise pollution at airports, while respecting the competences of national or local authorities.
in writing. while parliament had made some useful amendments to the commission's text, the council decided to review it. for example, the consideration of working conditions at airports, the health and safety of local residents, greenhouse gas emissions and direct and indirect effects on employment are now excluded from the elements to be considered as a matter of priority in the 'cost-effectiveness report of the envisaged noise operating restrictions'. far from denouncing this backsliding, the leichtfried report accepts it and endorses it at second reading. i do not consider that health, safety, employment and the environment are secondary but rather priority issues. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. i supported this regulation which sets out provisions for the uniform introduction of noise-related operating restrictions, airport by airport, in order to improve the noise environment and to limit or reduce the number of people suffering from the harmful effects of noise, in accordance with the 'balanced approach'. this text will facilitate the achievement of specific environmental noise mitigation objectives as set out in european, national and local legislation and assess their interdependence with other environmental objectives at airport level.
in writing. the title of 'european capital of culture' has already transformed many european cities through the development of cultural projects that unite the inhabitants and promote tourism. in france, this was the case for lille in 2004 and marseille in 2013. i therefore support this initiative and voted in favour of extending it.
in writing. this text amends the criteria for selecting cities to be candidates for the distinction of european capital of culture. the aim is to encourage upstream selection and downstream monitoring in order to optimise local development strategies focusing on culture in these cities. this is a necessary provision to contribute to the regional and international profile of european cities.
in writing. every year, two cities are chosen to be the 'european capitals of culture' and host cultural programmes for a whole year. the european capitals of culture, together with the erasmus academic exchange programme, are among the most successful eu actions. they make it possible to enhance european heritage and this new 2020-2033 programming attaches particular importance to inclusion in a sustainable and social urban development project, including the greatest number and in particular civil society. the initial reference to strengthening 'european identity', which had been badly damaged by the crisis, was dropped in favour of a 'common cultural area'. the most important battle on this report was about the appointment of the members of the jury. the european commission wanted to reserve the choice for itself. in the end, it is the three institutions and the committee of the regions that choose them. as culture is being cut everywhere, i support this project to enhance heritage. against the culture of capital, the culture of capital.
in writing. i supported this decision which establishes a new eu action for the 'european capitals of culture' for the years 2020 to 2033. the aim of this text is to continue the union's action in favour of the european capitals of culture for the years 2020 to 2033. the proposal retains the main features and general structure of the current scheme and the general objectives of the action: to preserve and promote the diversity of european cultures, to highlight their common features and to encourage the contribution of culture to the long-term development of cities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which lays down measures relating to the incidental capture of cetaceans. it lays down the measures to be used for the adaptation of the technical specifications and conditions of use of sound-absorbing devices and concerning the format of the reports to be submitted by the member states. it recalled the obligation on member states to take the necessary measures to establish a rigorous system for the protection of cetaceans.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the romeva i rueda report on the incidental capture of cetaceans. this is an alignment with the lisbon treaty as regards the delegation of powers to the european commission. parliament wants to give a delegation of power for a limited period of three years, as opposed to the indefinite period proposed by the commission. the report also urges the commission to propose additional measures to combat bycatch by 2015. the protection of cetaceans requires improvements to existing noise deterrence and observation systems on board fishing vessels.
in writing. this technical text aims to reclassify the european commission's legislative acts as delegated acts or implementing acts in order to bring them into line with the lisbon treaty. in negotiations with the council, parliament obtained that the commission 'plans to present a comprehensive legislative proposal to ensure effective protection of cetaceans' by the end of 2015. so why not wait for this comprehensive proposal to revise the legislation? why disconnect the procedure from the background? and how can we be sure that the commission will honour this commitment? i vote against it.
in writing. i supported this regulation which aims to align council regulation (ec) no 812/2004 laying down measures concerning the incidental catching of cetaceans in fisheries with the new rules of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (commission delegated and implementing powers).
in writing. posted workers are employees who come to work temporarily in a european union country other than their country of origin. the system applicable to these workers was laid down by a european directive in 1996. today, despite the european legislative framework, many abuses are being observed: the construction, agriculture and services sectors are particularly affected by the use of underpaid labour, thanks to the use of various schemes to evade controls (intermediary companies, subcontracting), which are also too infrequent. these abuses must be combated in order to prevent social dumping. this is the purpose of the reform, which strengthens the rules on controls, improves mutual assistance between the various competent authorities and clarifies joint and several liability in the case of subcontracting, so that it is no longer used as a means of circumventing the rules. i fully support these reforms and have voted in favour of this new directive on the posting of workers.
in writing. the agreement on the posting of workers is a major step forward in the fight against social dumping and unfair competition. the definition of a posted worker will finally be common to the 28 member states in order to fill the gaps opened by the lack of harmonisation; administrative cooperation between states will be established to prevent fraud; states will have to exchange information on the reality of service providers' activity in order to put an end to letterbox companies; the authorities will be able to require proof from posted workers themselves and not just from companies, sometimes empty shells, to verify that wages and working conditions are in accordance with the law; contracting authorities on a construction site will have to monitor the practices of their subcontractors and will be punished in the event of abuse. now we must go further, by creating a european mobile force of labour inspectors and a minimum wage throughout europe. above all, the treaty must enshrine the primacy of social rights over the freedoms of the internal market. that is why i voted for the compromise today.
in writing. - this agreement is a victory against social dumping and the exploitation of workers in europe, which is currently made possible by the implementation of the posting of workers directive, as was seen with the flamanville case. the compromise reached is not perfect, and we would have liked to go further in its binding dimension, but we have been faced with the stubborn refusal of some member states to make further concessions. among the advances made in relation to the current unacceptable situation, i would point out: the establishment of cooperation between states to prevent fraud; the exchange of information between states on the reality of the activity of service providers to put an end to the phenomenon of letterbox companies; the strengthening of controls in each country with the obligation for posted workers to provide documents proving that their remuneration and working conditions are in accordance with the law; and finally, the fact that contractors on a construction site will, throughout europe, have to check the practices of their subcontractors and be held accountable for fraudulent actions: this will be a powerful lever to ensure compliance throughout the subcontracting chain.
in writing. the posting of workers directive contains many loopholes which allow unscrupulous employers to bring in european workers without respecting labour law and current practices, and there was an urgent need for a major overhaul of this text. the text adopted merely clarifies the spirit of the directive and maintains the limits imposed on the states so that their controls do not interfere with freedom of service: the control measures remain governed by a list (which is not exhaustive), and joint liability between the undertaking and the subcontractors is maintained only in the building sector and is limited. the amendments tabled by my group to give the states the freedom to put in place the controls they deem necessary and to hold companies accountable for the practices of their subcontractors have not been adopted, so that the savage competition between workers is maintained and massive fraud will continue. that is why i refused to support this text. one of the first acts of the parliament elected in may must be to reopen this dossier to send a strong signal that dumping cannot continue to be the only horizon of european economic and social policy.
in writing. this directive on the posting of workers is a catch-all. the liberals and the ps are pretending to do something. in reality, they are organising the continuation of unfair competition and the over-exploitation of posted workers. the 1996 framework directive remains unchanged. this text is only an implementing directive intended to cover up the most intolerable. the french socialist party has been hit hard again. the french president has agreed to a european deal at a discount. and the ps chair of the committee on employment and social affairs betrayed her committee by giving the parliament's agreement to the heads of state on this content at a discount, when the committee was much more demanding. ms bérès was to demand that joint and several liability between contractors and subcontractors apply to all sectors and to all subcontractors. it accepted that it applied only to a subcontractor and only to the building sector. this hypocrisy is unbearable. the over-exploitation will continue. i vote against it. finally, to protect the rights of workers, we must break with the 1996 directive and disobey it.
in writing. although there are some substantial advances, the new 'posted workers' directive still leaves social dumping with a bright future, so i voted against it. in 60% of cases, the minimum provisions of posted workers' contracts are not respected, the small adjustments planned will not change the fate of posted workers (who see their rights violated) or the social dumping that this regulation organizes. social security and employer's contributions are still not paid in the country of secondment, or at least are not paid in the same way as in the country of secondment. there is no mention of respect for the trade union rights of posted workers. the collective agreements applicable in the country of secondment are still not respected or recognised.
in writing. i voted for this text. this is the first victory against social dumping in europe. several advances have been made and have therefore merited our support: cooperation will be established between member states to prevent fraud. it will now be possible to require posted workers themselves, and not just companies, which are sometimes empty shells, documents, in french, proving that their pay and working conditions are in accordance with the law. contractors on construction sites throughout europe will have to check the practices of their subcontractors and will be held accountable for fraudulent actions. this was the best compromise possible and available to provide an immediate response to the problem of the posting of workers. i will undertake in the next legislature to reform this issue more deeply, as the socialists have committed to in their manifesto for the elections of 25 may 2014.
in writing. - in a europe where national social policies are not harmonised, we must do everything possible to restore fair competition between workers from the different member states. the posting of workers by social dumping between the countries making up the union. fraud and abuse of all kinds are common in this field. it 's time to end this ! i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. it is by strengthening controls, empowering supply chains and clarifying the legislation in this area that we can begin to put an end to social dumping in europe. this legislation will be a first step towards convergence of social policies. i do not want a europe which leaves a part of the workforce behind in favour of unfair competition. but i want a europe that puts everyone on an equal footing.
in writing. this report deals with the issue of non-eu nationals posted to provide services within the european union. it has the advantage of strengthening the protection of such posted workers while also strengthening the protection of the union's internal market. the text makes it possible to combat fraud and, consequently, to combat social dumping. such a report is a major asset for the european union, the internal market and employment. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. given the many cases of fraud in the 1996 posting of workers directive, it was both urgent and essential to revise the text. the amendments will help to respond to abuses across europe, particularly in border regions. i could therefore only support this report which seeks to revise the directive which will affect 175,000 french employees. the new measures will make it possible to define clearly the status of posted worker and the official documents justifying it; the commission will also be discussing the prevention and sanctioning of abuses. i have supported the principle of joint and several liability of contractors towards their subcontractors in the event of non-compliance with their wage obligations. this principle is mandatory for the postal services sector, which is particularly affected by fraud, and may be extended to other sectors depending on the transposition into national law by the member states. finally, complaint procedures will be transparent and simplified for posted workers in the event of abuse or fraud.
in writing. it was imperative to vote on this text before the european elections: it is proof that we are mobilising against the flaws in the 1996 directive on posted workers. the detachment status is the stone in the shoe of european free movement. the abuses are so numerous that they have tarnished the very image of european integration: underpaid workers, no controls, safety standards not respected, unfair competition, lack of coordination between administrations, impunity and social dumping. construction workers, already in crisis in many member states, have particularly suffered from the shortcomings of the legislation. this competition is just as fierce and deadly in the border areas as it is in my region on the spanish border. the reform strengthens the possibility of controls and makes both the project owners and their subcontractors responsible. however, the text only partially addresses the problems of crossborder employment: to establish healthy competition that is beneficial for all workers in europe.
in writing. the new directive on the posting of workers, which was the result of a compromise between the european parliament and the council, will help to correct the weaknesses of the 1996 directive which helped to facilitate intra-community social dumping. it is necessary to distinguish clearly between actual situations of secondment and attempts to circumvent the law and to enable the national authorities to control secondments better. in particular, workers must be in possession of proof of their posting, such as a social security certificate, and be able to assert their rights more effectively. companies will be responsible for providing the national authorities with documents indicating the country in which they pay their taxes and contributions and where they recruit. these measures are a first step in the right direction but they are far from sufficient. it is now necessary to develop european legislation and to ensure that employers pay their social security contributions in the country where they work and that the latter benefit in their country from the rights acquired in the member state where they are posted and pay their contributions. this is the only way to put an end to social dumping in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the directive on the posting of workers, which is a modest step forward, without renouncing a thorough revision of the directive. the council of the european union, which is mainly right-wing, was pushed to its limits to reach the most ambitious agreement possible. among the advances will be cooperation between states to prevent fraud. the controls will be strengthened: it will now be possible to require posted workers themselves, and not just companies that are sometimes empty shells, documents proving that their pay and working conditions are in accordance with the law. finally, contractors on a construction site will have to check the practices of their subcontractors throughout europe and will be held accountable for fraudulent actions: this will be a powerful lever to ensure compliance throughout the subcontracting chain. i regret the vote of the gue meps who preferred to vote against this progress rather than risk maintaining the current situation, that of a vacuum. it should be noted that martin schulz has committed himself to a thorough review of this directive if he is elected.
in writing. cultural heritage is a real asset which the european union must protect and promote. i voted in favour of this draft revision of the directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state because the european union can bring a great deal of added value in the fight against trafficking and those who seek to profit from it, but to do this, the existing rules need to be modernised.
in writing. this text aims to amend council directive 93/7/eec of 15 march 2013 on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state. according to this directive, only cultural property classified as 'national treasure' within the meaning of article 36 of the tfeu may be returned, that is to say, objects of artistic, historical or archaeological value. according to the commission, trafficking in cultural goods, including national treasures, has increased considerably in recent years. this is the third largest source of revenue for organized crime. the aim of the revision is to increase the number of restitutions of cultural property classified as 'national treasures'. the rapporteur proposes that the internal market information system (imi) be used to disseminate all information relating to cultural property that has been stolen or has been illegally removed from its territory. the concept of 'national treasury' is also to be extended by removing the thresholds for monetary value and seniority. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which will contribute to the protection of cultural property in the internal market by allowing member states to obtain the restitution of cultural property classified as 'national treasures'. the aim of the recast directive 93/7/eec is to enable member states to obtain the return of any cultural property classified as national treasures which has been unlawfully removed from their territory since 1993.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which provides for a 50% and then 80% reduction in the overconsumption of plastic bags in member states using more plastic bags per capita than the eu average, which will trigger a real momentum across the eu to reduce the pollution caused by these bags. thanks to the grenelle de l'environnement, promoted by jean-louis borloo, france has taken a step forward in this field since the french now consume less than 100 plastic bags per capita per year and are therefore not obliged to continue this reduction. pollution caused by plastic bags thrown into the environment is a real scourge that must be tackled at all levels to protect fauna and flora. it seems to me essential that europeans gradually get used to reusing their bags and that conventional plastic bags are gradually replaced by recycled, biodegradable or compostable bags, depending on future uses and technological developments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the auken report which aims to reduce the consumption of plastic bags in the european union. under the grenelle programme, france has taken strong measures to successfully reduce the consumption of plastic bags and the related pollution. the report deplores the overconsumption of plastic bags less than 50 microns thick, which account for the vast majority of used and discarded bags and are not suitable for recurrent reuse. the aim is to reduce their consumption by 50% within 3 years of the entry into force of the directive and by 80% within 5 years of the entry into force of the directive. member states will also be able to tax the consumption of plastic bags. the report also aims to harmonise the compostability and biodegradability standards for bags.
in writing. reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic handbags is a crucial environmental issue. i supported the text which sets targets for member states that use more plastic bags per capita than the eu average. measures taken in france demonstrate that consumption patterns of these lightweight plastic handbags can be adequately altered. it is therefore appropriate to encourage, in particular, the reuse of those bags in all member states.
in writing. of the 100 billion plastic bags consumed in the eu each year, almost 8 billion end up in the wild. it is a deadly danger to birds and sea animals and a scourge to the environment. this situation is no longer acceptable. the implementation of pilot projects at european level has had a rapid and effective effect, showing that a voluntary environmental management policy at community level can provide a serious and practical response. this is why we must continue in this direction and aim for a 50% reduction by 2017 and 80% by 2019. at the same time, the principle of subsidiarity must apply to implementation, since the national, or even regional and local levels are probably best placed to take the measures appropriate to each territory to achieve these objectives. this division of tasks between the union setting the broad guidelines and the authorities of the member states implementing them ensures greater efficiency.
in writing. - plastic waste is a major environmental concern, particularly in view of its harmful impact on water and aquatic ecosystems. i therefore welcome the adoption of this ambitious text which aims at urgently strengthening measures to reduce the impact of plastic bags on the environment. member states will now have to reduce their consumption by 50% by 2017 and by 80% two years later. against waste and environmental uncivility, the european parliament has sent a strong message by enabling a significant and rapid reduction in single-use plastic bags in the european union.
in writing. - according to 2010 statistics, each european union citizen used on average 198 plastic bags and more than 8 billion plastic bags were thrown away. in view of the harmful impact of this waste on the environment, and like the majority of my colleagues, i voted in favour of this legislative resolution so that it is strengthened significantly. with this legislation, member states will be obliged to reduce the consumption of these bags by at least 50% by 2017 and by 80% by 2019. the measures adopted to achieve these objectives include taxation, marketing restrictions and even prohibitions to encourage businesses not to provide these bags free of charge. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague margrete auken on reducing the consumption of plastic bags. the text proposes the ambitious target of reducing our consumption of plastic bags by 80% by leaving member states with a wide range of possible measures to achieve this, from taxing plastic bags to banning them at national level. in the face of the scourge of plastic pollution, the adoption of measures at european level to reduce its impact is to be welcomed. the text was adopted by 539 votes to 51, with 72 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. in 2010, 95.5 billion plastic bags (1.42 mt) were placed on the eu market, most of which (92%) were single-use. plastic bags accounted for 73% of the items recovered by trawlers off the coast of tuscany during the summer of 2011. the increase in plastic production is mainly linked to the production of packaging and directly linked to the increase in gdp. in view of these findings, the proposal is very meagre. the report does not address unnecessary packaging, which is the main source of plastic waste. he also ignores the innovative processes that allow the production of plastic from seaweed. and as always, it is about charging consumers (and not distributors) for the use of these plastic bags. green capitalism is here. it is time to reorient the industry towards eco-design and recycling. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive, which sets binding targets for reducing the consumption of plastic bags: at least 50% by 2017 and 80% by 2019. taxes, restrictions, marketing bans - all these actions will be encouraged in order to eliminate the most polluting bags, i.e. checked bags in supermarkets. very lightweight bags used for packaging bulk foods such as raw meat, fish, vegetables and dairy products will be gradually replaced by recycled or biodegradable paper bags and compostable bags.
in writing. the stated objective of this text, which i supported, is to halve the consumption of plastic bags within 3 years. the ban will initially affect 'lightweight' plastic bags, i.e. the vast majority of those used. the eu's new rules on packaging for fruit, vegetables and confectionery will be replaced by recycled, biodegradable or compostable paper bags by 2019. this is not only an achievable goal, but also a first step in the evaluation of waste management policy in the european union, which is due to be published in may. to achieve this, significant efforts will have to be made on recycling (which should be facilitated from the design stage) and on eco-friendly products such as biodegradable bags. the latter sector also presents an economic opportunity for innovative european companies: the european commission has estimated that the development of this sector could create 400 000 jobs across the european union.
in writing. i voted enthusiastically for the report on reducing the consumption of plastic bags. the unknown part of all plastic is found in the pacific, where a continent of 3.5 million square kilometres of plastic has formed. while blue growth is our future, we must protect marine environments to enable their sustainable development. this problem is one example of the many types of pollution that affect the oceans and of which we are all too little aware. so this is a good first step. the european union must now reduce the use of plastic bags by 80% by 2019. while the most polluting bags, i.e. checkout bags in supermarkets, will be subject to taxes, restrictions and marketing bans, the very lightweight bags used to pack bulk foods such as raw meat, fish, vegetables and dairy products will be gradually replaced by recycled or biodegradable paper bags, as well as by compostable bags. i note that the fn voted against this text, again demonstrating its retrograde vision.
in writing. this report covers the surveillance of the external borders during joint operations of the member states and the frontex agency. i voted in favour of this text because it provides for a european response to save lives and to guard maritime borders, while including solidarity mechanisms and the sharing of responsibilities between member states.
in writing. the tragic events in lampedusa in october 2013 highlighted the need to strengthen surveillance of the eu's maritime borders. the union must take bold action in the area of surveillance of the external maritime borders. the text thus makes it possible to put in place instruments to combat illegal immigration. it provides for measures upstream such as interception measures, but also downstream with provisions for search and rescue activities.
in writing. the tragic accident in lampedusa in october 2013, which resulted in the death of 350 migrants trying to reach europe, is far from an isolated case. indeed, it is estimated that several thousand have died in the mediterranean since 2000. the union must avoid such tragedies at all costs by setting up an immigration police and increased coastal surveillance. thus, the border surveillance activities of the frontex agency cannot be separated from the search and rescue obligation. it is also essential that the european values of solidarity and respect for fundamental rights guide the union's action in the field of border surveillance. intercepted migrants have often faced immense suffering and must be rescued and treated with humanity and respect. it is imperative that the european coast guard provides adequate protection to vulnerable persons, such as victims of trafficking and unaccompanied minors. they cannot send shipwrecked people back to their home countries without being sure that they will not be persecuted there. the same shall apply to the master and crew of a ship who have come to the aid of a ship in distress.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the surveillance of the external borders in the context of joint operations by the member states and the frontex agency. the provisions of this report set out the modalities of the european response to the channels of illegal immigration and the networks organizing the transport of illegal immigrants by sea. they are aimed at better protecting our borders and at preventing tragedies like the one in lampedusa from happening again. the text thus defines emergency phases, strengthens the coordination of resources and improves the distribution of responsibilities in joint operations. the instrument also aims to provide greater legal clarity on the disembarkation of persons intercepted or rescued at sea in the context of maritime security operations.
in writing. the controversy over the role of frontex, and the responsibilities involved in the agency's maritime operations, is far from new, but it has been impossible to achieve clear and binding rules in this area. i therefore supported this report which, after a legal battle and an intensive process of negotiations with the council, clarifies the rules on the interception or rescue of migrants at sea and their disembarkation. these rules should put an end to the confusion caused by differing interpretations of international law. the aim is obviously not to transform frontex into a humanitarian agency, but to provide it, within the framework of its mandate, with precise and mandatory measures in accordance with international maritime law. the success or failure of this system now depends on how it is applied. but let us not be deceived, frontex and border surveillance cannot become the alpha and omega of european migration policy. as long as the eu and its member states prefer to adopt safe and short-term responses, it is to be expected that migrants will continue to venture on increasingly dangerous routes.
in writing. this text sets out the framework for surveillance and control missions carried out at the eu's external borders against migrant populations. respect for fundamental human rights is now taken into account in the system, as is the principle of non-refoulement. but while the border surveillance mission extends to search and rescue activities, it remains organised around the objective of 'preventing unauthorised border crossings'. this policy of borders, closed to people but dogmatically open to goods and capital, is the opposite of the 'protectionism based on solidarity' which i advocate. i am voting against to show my opposition to the frontex system.
in writing. the report on the surveillance of the external maritime borders aims to respond to the dramatic situation of thousands of refugees crossing the seas to reach the european union and find refuge. the frontex agency is thus given new rules for the interception of immigrants. the new provisions further strengthen the role of the european agency and distinguish between interception and rescue missions. unfortunately, it is planned that the interception on the high seas will be followed by a landing on the coast of the country of origin of the intercepted vessel. moreover, member states were not included in the system, although they are more often tried for human rights violations than frontex. despite some shortcomings in this text, a number of improvements have been made, notably on the current legal vagueness surrounding the principle of 'non-refoulement' and the integration of human rights protection principles. i therefore abstained on that vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which lays down rules for the surveillance of the external maritime borders in the context of operational cooperation coordinated by the frontex agency. this text clarifies the rules on the interception or rescue of migrants at sea in the framework of frontex operations. these rules are intended to put an end to the confusion caused by the differing interpretations of international law and practices in the european union countries.
in writing. - the need to strengthen border surveillance in europe is becoming more and more urgent. we have recently witnessed tragedies linked to the arrival of illegal immigrants by sea. we cannot afford to be idle in the face of such disasters. to do this, we must strengthen cooperation between frontex and the member states to restore the security of european citizens. i do not want a europe that lets just anyone into its territory. this is what is likely to happen if our borders remain as porous as they are now. i am glad that i voted in favour of this legislation. it will strengthen maritime surveillance at the union's borders. we all want a stable and secure europe for our fellow citizens, so we must provide the means to achieve this.
in writing. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european union is now able to conclude agreements on foreign direct investment (fdi). the purpose of this regulation is to clarify who, in the member state or in the european union, would bear the financial responsibility when compensation is due. it proposes a mechanism whereby the financial responsibility for the cost of settling an investor-state dispute and the right to defend such a case are shared between the eu and the member states according to which of the two states' actions prompted the investor to lodge a claim. the text before us corresponds to the agreement reached in the trilogue with the council of the european union and the european commission. i supported him.
in writing. several international agreements to which the eu is a party provide for the possibility for an investor to lodge a claim against a state in the case of foreign direct investment. in the event of such a dispute, the member state concerned will have to bear costs (costs to cover the management of the dispute, the payment of arbitrators or the remuneration of lawyers) and may, if it loses, be required to pay compensation. the proposed text aims to establish financial responsibility in cases concerning the union. the commission should instead stop all treaty negotiations involving the use of such arbitration tribunals. this would eliminate the cost problem. the dispute settlement system is deeply unfair and serves only the interests of multinational corporations in their fight to break social and environmental norms. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which will protect foreign investors at eu level by establishing a framework for the management of financial liability linked to investor-state dispute settlement tribunals set up by international agreements to which the eu is a party. the financial responsibility arising from investor-state dispute settlement procedures will now be assigned to the author of the disputed processing.
in writing. the european union's anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures are essential because they allow the union to protect its producers from unfair competition by taxing imports of foreign products placed on the market at prices below production costs (dumping) or following the collection of subsidies to crush competitors. the procedure for these anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures is very useful, but can be improved in its efficiency (speed, effect, etc.), so i voted for this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the fjellner report which aims to modernise the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations in order to increase the effectiveness of trade defence instruments, reduce the threat of retaliation from third countries and increase market transparency and predictability. this report responds to the growing concern of union producers regarding threats of retaliation from third country producers following the submission of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy complaints.
in writing. i supported this text to amend european legislation to better defend against dumped and subsidised imports from non-eu countries. in particular, it is important to improve the transparency and predictability of such measures. in addition, special attention to smes is particularly important. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. negotiations to strengthen these instruments should therefore be continued.
in writing. what might appear to be a breakthrough in european trade policy in the fight against dumping is far from matching the challenges of the ravages caused by free trade. the recent treatment of chinese solar panel imports proves this: 80% of the european market is won by chinese products and 25 000 jobs in a strategic sector have been destroyed! however, the commission's timid proposal was withdrawn immediately after china threatened to retaliate. the rapporteur is helping to reduce the few achievements of the text. it opposed the application of the anti-dumping duty in all its aspects, even if limited to the raw materials market. in this connection, he did not fail to point out that dumping is not a practice prohibited by the wto, only 'harmful' dumping is, as he himself says. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which updates and modernises the basic anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations to adapt them to the contemporary challenges facing the european union's economy. parliament considered that certain provisions of the existing regulations should be amended in order to improve transparency and predictability, to adopt effective measures to combat retaliation by third countries, to improve the efficiency and control of enforcement and to optimise review practices. we have clarified that the use of any dumped product in the context of exploration of the continental shelf or the exclusive economic zone of a member state, or the exploitation of its resources, should be treated as an import and be subject to a duty where it causes injury to the union industry.
in writing. - dumping and subsidy measures are commonplace for some of the world's economic powers. it is high time for the european union to adapt its trade defence instruments to this new situation. it is not protectionist to want to guarantee that our companies operate in an international environment conducive to fair trade. no one in europe wants to find themselves in situations such as we have recently experienced with chinese photovoltaic panels. i am glad that i fought throughout the procedure for the adoption of this report to give the union an effective instrument in the event of market distortion. i am therefore delighted to have voted in favour of this report. it is true that many negotiations with the council still have to take place to perfect this instrument and make its application possible. but a first step has been taken to ensure that european businesses operate in an environment conducive to their expansion. ensuring a prosperous future for european businesses also requires the modernisation of the union's trade defence instruments.
in writing. the regulations applying to 'dumped' products, i.e. products entering the european union at a price much lower than the market price, had not been revised since 1995. i have therefore supported the principle of reform and actively defended the principle of a comprehensive defence against dumping: not only commercial dumping but also social and environmental dumping. the text we have adopted today, which i amended as a member of the committee on international trade, will form the basis of the intergovernmental discussions in the council. i hope they will reach agreement quickly so that the modernised regulations can enter into force quickly, and if possible before the end of this year.
in writing. the existing legislation governing political parties at european level and their funding was adopted in november 2003. it was amended in 2007 to allow, inter alia, the financing of european political foundations from the union budget. the aim of this regulation is to increase the visibility, recognition, effectiveness and transparency of european political parties and their accountability. i consider this to be an important step towards a genuine statute for european political parties, which i wish to see. in the meantime, i voted in favour of this new regulation, which is moving in the right direction.
in writing. - i supported the creation of a legal status for european political parties because this text will enable them to contribute more effectively to the formation of a democratic european political consciousness and to the expression of the will of the citizens of the union. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, this text should support the increased role of the european parliament in the appointment of the future president of the european commission, following a campaign by political parties at european level. it will also be possible to impose sanctions, for example, in the event of misuse of eu funds, failure to comply with reporting and transparency requirements or criminal conviction. finally, by adopting rules providing for an independent structure to register these parties, we are thus removing any challenge to the application of the rules, in particular on the verification of respect for democratic values, by populist parties which are often quick to hide behind a role of victim and incapable of taking on the slippages they are accustomed to.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marietta giannakou on the status and funding of european political parties. the aim of this text is to modernise existing legislation by increasing the visibility, recognition, effectiveness and transparency of european political parties and their accountability. an independent authority will be set up to register political parties, monitor them and apply any sanctions. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. this regulation lays down more precise criteria in the statute of european political parties. national parties must be recognised by the state in question. it also called for greater representation of women in the leading bodies of these european parties. finally, it allows the financing of campaigns on european referendums. the aim is to "help citizens better understand the link between political processes at national and european level". i regret, however, that more restrictive criteria have been introduced. the 3% threshold set at the last elections has been raised to 5% as a criterion for the founding of a european party. i abstain because of this restriction of democratic pluralism.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation which will improve the regulatory and funding framework for political parties and political foundations at european level with a view to strengthening and encouraging representative democracy at eu level. the main objective of these improvements is to increase the visibility, recognition, effectiveness and transparency of european political parties and foundations and their accountability.
in writing. - at a time when european citizens are constantly demanding more transparency from us, we must provide it. the political status of european parties and their funding must be an integral part of the european legislative body. we must show our fellow citizens that the activities of european political parties are controlled by an independent body. we shall thus silence criticism of the integrity of the european union. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. one of our tasks is to restore confidence in europe. we should not hesitate to work at it.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation accompanies the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations. here too, the aim is to improve the transparency and accountability of european political parties. this regulation clarifies in particular the rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest, the remuneration of external auditors and the content of calls for tender. i think that this is a timely reform and i have therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. this report concerns the regulation on the financing of european political parties. it simplifies the granting procedures. it also allows these parties to finance campaigns in the context of referendums on european issues. we avoided the worst with the right wing, which wanted to increase the distribution of funds in proportion to the number of meps. the rule remains 15% for everyone and then 85% in proportion to the number of meps in the party (not 90% as the right-wing rapporteur wanted). this leaves little room for the smaller parties. where is democracy in this context? for these reasons i abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which will amend the financial regulation to take account of the amendments proposed by the commission in its proposal for a regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations. this text introduces a new title viii in part two of the financial regulation, dedicated to contributions to european political parties, and repeals the specific provisions on european political parties currently provided for under title vi (subsidies) of part one.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which takes account of the outcome of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020. it concerns the reserve and emergency aid for projects financed under the connecting europe facility (cef).
in writing. this report amends several european financial regulations to adapt them to the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i have fought against this austerity budget and i am also against its implementation. the aim is to adapt the financing arrangements for the connecting europe facility (the cef which finances investments in networks) and for sme funds. instruments that favour public-private partnerships at the expense of the general interest and budgetary efficiency. the report also proposes adopting a model financial regulation for public-private partnerships financed from european funds. i am absolutely opposed to this privatisation of public investment to the detriment of the long-term ecological and social interest. i therefore vote against these financial regulations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no[nbsp ]966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union (or financial regulation rf). these amendments will make it possible to include the deferral rules for the reserve for emergency aid and for projects financed under the connecting europe facility.
in writing. shipping is a significant contributor to co2 emissions from the transport sector. it is therefore appropriate to provide for a method of accounting for these emissions and, in a second step, to decide in the future on measures to reduce these excessive emissions. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which will make it possible to take this first important step.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to monitor, report and verify co2 emissions from shipping, as part of a gradual approach to reduce these emissions. the text is thus fully in line with the commitments made by the european union to combat climate change. international shipping is the only mode of transport not yet covered by the european union's greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments. with this text, the eu can finally put in place a reliable system to achieve this objective.
in writing. this text establishes a necessary system for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions. unfortunately, the proposed system is primarily declarative. but above all, it is not based on an overall political vision which would make it possible to stop treating the different freight transport sectors separately. we need a strategy to relocate the economy and create the conditions and infrastructure for rail and shipping to flourish in the face of air and lorry transport. the ambition of this text is therefore very limited. we are far from the necessary ecological planning of transport. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. before any legislative initiative to reduce co2 emissions from shipping is considered, this regulation aims to put in place a reliable monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) system. the objectives are therefore to monitor, report and verify co2 emissions from ships as part of a gradual approach to reduce these emissions.
in writing. invasive alien species (ias) are initially transported by human action outside their natural range, beyond ecological barriers, and then survive, reproduce, spread and cause serious ecological, social and economic consequences. these weee are one of the main causes of biodiversity loss and species extinction. the damage caused by eee is estimated at eur 12 billion per year within the european union. i voted in favour of this text, which establishes a framework for action to prevent, minimise and mitigate the negative impacts of invasive alien species on biodiversity and ecosystem services, in particular through an early warning system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, the main objective of which is to establish a list of invasive alien species in order to prevent and limit their spread and thus reduce their impact. the commission proposed that this list be capped at 50 species, but parliament asked that this ceiling not be set. the compromise reached between the three institutions allows the list to be drawn up without a ceiling and by means of implementing acts. parliament and the council also proposed the creation of an independent scientific body to support the decision-making process on certain aspects of the regulation.
in writing. this text represents a further step towards preventing, reducing and mitigating the negative impacts of invasive alien species on biodiversity and ecosystem services. these invasive alien species (animals, plants, fungi, micro-organisms) are one of the main causes of biodiversity loss and the extinction of some species. the creation of a comprehensive legal framework to combat these species and to preserve biodiversity therefore appears to be an appropriate response to this situation.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european union has finally come up with a common regulation to combat the spread and reduce the impact of invasive alien species in europe. the aim of this regulation is to curb the growth of species which are not naturally present in the ecosystems of the european territory but which, once they are imported, cause serious damage to local biodiversity. in addition to the environmental damage, the economic losses are estimated at over 12 billion euros per year in the european union. the list of invasive alien species which will be drawn up shortly will enable member states to work in synergy on this issue which is so important for our ecosystems. the text promotes european cooperation on a problem which, like the management of natural resources, knows no frontiers.
in writing. this paper highlights the problem of invasive alien species and the danger they pose to our ecosystem. it proposes a method for monitoring these species and concrete methods of control. the aim is to list these species, to eradicate them where necessary, to prevent their spread and entry into the member states. this monitoring and management will be carried out in liaison with scientists, national and local representatives of the member states and the public. i regret, however, that the text is too timid, particularly with regard to the untreated discharge of ballast water and the fouling of ship hulls. they are by far the most important vectors of introduction of invasive alien species. nevertheless, these proposals are generally in the right direction. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to prevent, reduce and mitigate the negative impacts of invasive alien species (ias) on biodiversity and ecosystem services. invasive alien species (ias) are a major cause of biodiversity loss and extinction of some species. they can be vectors of disease or directly cause health problems. they damage infrastructure and leisure facilities, interfere with forestry or cause agricultural losses. the damage caused by the eea is estimated to cost the union at least eur 12 billion a year and the bill is only rising.
in writing. climate change is one of the greatest threats facing the european union and the world today. in the face of this situation, the european union and a number of its partners have committed themselves to taking measures to reduce co2 emissions through the kyoto protocol. i voted in favour of this report because it allows the kyoto protocol to be properly implemented in the years ahead and thus to reduce the consequences of man-made climate change. beyond that, it is essential that an international agreement binding on all global actors is found in paris at the end of 2015 in order to reduce co2 emissions even more effectively.
in writing. at the doha conference in 2012, a new commitment period for the kyoto protocol was introduced, from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020. legally binding greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments were then established for this period. this text then makes it possible to implement the technical aspects necessary for the application of the kyoto protocol. it is essential that the european union takes effective measures to meet its international commitments. the functioning of the emission trading system must therefore be brought into line with the efforts to be made by each member state.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation concerns the technical rules necessary for the implementation of the kyoto protocol in the european union after 2012. the objectives of the european union are insufficient in comparison with the efforts to be made. this is all the more so after the publication of the latest ipcc report, which calls for profound and rapid changes in production and trade patterns to prevent warming well above 2 degrees. the eu would need to reduce emissions by at least 30% by 2020 while still meeting the 20% target. the implementation of these targets in europe also relies on the carbon market, which is totally ineffective in reducing emissions in a sustainable and rapid manner, and thus in combating global warming. this european implementation is therefore totally inadequate in the face of the increased ecological emergency. i deplore this european inertia and i call for ecological planning, the only effective and lasting response to global warming. under these conditions i abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to ensure the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol in the european union after 2012. this text establishes coherent rules to ensure the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol in the european union after 2012. it will facilitate the successful joint implementation of the commitments of the union, its member states and iceland.
in writing. the directive on the protection of the union's financial interests aims to establish the measures necessary to prevent and combat fraud and other illegal activities affecting the union's financial interests by developing common definitions of criminal offences and penalties. fraud cases are estimated to be worth nearly 600 million euros a year. this proposal for a directive must be understood in the wider context of all the commission's proposals for harmonized criminal law. i am convinced that the fight against fraud must be conducted at european level and that cooperation in criminal matters is essential. i voted in favour of this directive.
in writing. the damage suffered by the eu budget each year as a result of massive fraud is immense and requires measures to ensure effective protection of the financial interests of the union. despite the development of the eu acquis in this area, member states have adopted divergent rules, often resulting in differences in the levels of protection provided by their domestic legal systems. the definition of offences common to all member states should make it possible to combat fraud more effectively. this is what this text rightly proposes.
in writing. fraud and other illegal activities affect the financial interests of the union and therefore constitute a serious problem detrimental to the union budget. the commission's legislative proposal is a step in the right direction by providing for provisions which aim to bring national legal systems closer together, including criminal law measures, to combat fraud and other illegal activities. the rapporteur also proposes to reduce the threshold for infringements from eur 10 000 to eur 5 000, so that member states may, if they so wish, provide for non-criminal sanctions for fraud involving lower amounts. but as long as the fight against fraud is confined to the borders of tax havens, it will have little weight. the free movement of capital, which the european union is promoting, is a major factor in the development of fraud. i therefore abstained on this text in order not to endorse these inconsequential rotating assemblies.
in writing. this report gives a discharge on the 2012 budget of the parliament, which represents only 1 % of the eu budget and 20 % of its administrative expenditure. it is nevertheless clear that despite this 'rigor', the cracks in the ceiling of the brussels chamber of deputies almost caused a 'major catastrophe threatening human lives', in this case the lives of members of parliament and therefore my own! it also shows that the parliament's pubs and restaurants are running a deficit despite regular price increases. it is positive that this report also raises the alarm about the violations of labour rights suffered by bailiffs and local agents employed in brussels and strasbourg. this diagnosis is unfortunately undermined by the report's recommendations, which swear by the management and audit methods of private companies, without ever demonstrating their superiority in terms of the efficiency of public spending. finally, in its logic of blind pursuit and limited to extra costs, this report relays the anglo-saxon arguments against the seat of parliament in strasbourg, whereas the seat in brussels is so dangerous, abusive and costly. i therefore vote against.
the committee on budgets mr president, i shall speak in proportion to the number of members who are prepared to applaud me. i would like to speak first, with your permission, on behalf of jean-luc dehaene, who is the co-rapporteur with anne jensen, and who, unfortunately, is held back by a serious illness. i would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the whole of parliament, to wish him a speedy and full recovery. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are to vote today on a small package of legislation which is the 'resources and financing' part of the budgetary framework for the next seven years, following the political agreement reached between parliament and the council with the commission at the end of last year. the treaty of lisbon brings two major changes to the legal provisions on the union's own resources. first, it provides for the possibility of establishing new categories of own resources or of abolishing an existing category. secondly, it enables the council to adopt implementing measures for the union's own resources system. unfortunately, the powers of parliament remain relatively limited. as regards the council's decision, parliament is merely consulted and, as regards the implementing regulation, it has the power of approval by a qualified majority or rejection by a majority. originally, in parallel with the presentation of its proposals for the financial perspective in terms of categories of expenditure, the european commission, as requested by parliament - and i thank commissioner lewandowski for this - had tabled comprehensive proposals for updating and thoroughly revising the own resources system by making full use of the new provisions of the treaty, by abolishing the current vat-based own resource and replacing it with a more modern vat resource and, above all, with the financial transaction tax, which would have limited the share of national contributions to the financing of the union budget to a maximum of 40%. as you will recall, the vast majority of members of the european parliament supported the commission's proposals from the outset, believing that they provided a solid basis for fundamental reform. unfortunately, the draft decision adopted by the council did not take this into account. it merely implements the conclusions of the european council of 7 and 8 february 2013 and amends the previous decision on resources, rather aggravating its shortcomings. for example, the own resources ceiling would be reduced slightly from 1.24% to 1.23% of gross national income for payment appropriations, and for commitment appropriations from 1.31% to 1.29%. not only are the rebates not abolished, namely the uk rebate and the rebate enjoyed by austria, germany, the netherlands and sweden, but the system is even extended in a slightly different form to denmark. as a result, we have a system of funding which is absurd and incomprehensible to the citizens. it is also deeply unfair between countries because it can be said, roughly speaking, that the richer a country is, the less it contributes to the financing of the european budget. this is the first scandal parliament has wanted to put an end to. parliament has already expressed its disappointment that the council did not want to deal with the system of reform of resources in the context of the negotiation of the multiannual framework. we have the opportunity to talk about it today. of course, our rapporteurs could have proposed a totally negative position to express the bad mood of parliament to the full, but a parliament does not express its bad mood, a parliament decides or participates in the decision. therefore, in the votes that the rapporteurs and the committee on budgets propose in plenary, we do not propose to reject or defer, we propose to approve but with amendments and a legislative resolution that recalls the position of parliament and its expectations of the work of the high-level group that was set up a few days ago, with the participation of commissioner lewandowski and the greek presidency [nbsp ] which i am pleased to welcome, under the chairmanship of mario monti, former italian prime minister and former european commissioner for italy. this high-level group is responsible, in accordance with the agreement reached in the negotiations on the multiannual framework, for reviewing the entire own resources system in order to present to parliament and the council proposals which may be taken into account in the mid-term review of the multiannual framework in 2016-2017 after they have been submitted to national parliaments. we are reminded in these amendments of the guidelines, the political guidelines for this year. we respect national sovereignty in tax matters. we proclaim the principle of constancy. the tax burden of the taxpayer must remain the same. the fact that a tax or a burden is transferred to the european level does not mean that the taxpayer has to pay more. on the contrary, he should, whenever possible, pay less. this will relieve national budgets of a burden which has become very heavy and give the union its full financial autonomy. that is the spirit in which the committee on budgets has tabled amendments and will recommend a favourable vote on these texts.
mr president, commissioner, our mandate is coming to an end and we will continue to have a bitter taste of failure on this central question for the whole institution, that of its budgetary resources. this failure is reflected in a figure, that of a multiannual financial framework which is much lower than that of the previous period. this is the first time in the history of the european union that the european budget has been reduced so much. this backsliding is not just financial, it's political. does the european parliament share responsibility for this failure? yes, and it's big! the two major parties, the right and the left, which dominate the majorities, have feigned protest. but they finally gave in without resistance. the summit of heads of state held in brussels in february 2013 took no account, not even marginally, of the wishes expressed by parliament. the most striking example is the question of own resources, which we are discussing today. the european parliament could say no. this power is derived from the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force in 2009. his duty was to enforce it. by refusing to vote on the multiannual financial framework as proposed, by saying 'no', we would have given a strong boost to the european debate and would have put this issue back at the heart of the forthcoming election campaign. we would then have made it clear to the public opinion in europe that voting in the european elections could change the course of events.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to take the floor this time as chairman of the committee on budgets to thank the greek presidency, commissioner lewandowski, for all the work he has done in good cooperation with us over the past five years, and all the other rapporteurs, including ivailo kalfin, who is here, jutta haug, who, as has been mentioned, has played a key role in these dossiers. we must admit that with the resolution we are about to vote on, this small package of texts on resources and these amendments, together with the own-initiative report by jean-luc dehaene and ivailo kalfin, which we debated last night, our parliament and its committee on budgets are sending a message, a kind of political testament, to our successors. the message can be summed up as follows: 'there is a hidden crisis in europe, namely that europe no longer has the financial means to pursue its policy'. in 2012, europe announced a growth pact worth €120 billion. there was not one euro more than what had been decided previously. only the presentation was different. but more importantly, the european union recently pledged to provide 11 billion euros in aid to ukraine given the very difficult situation the country is currently experiencing. there is not one extra euro coming from the community budget compared to what was already planned before the current crisis for ukraine. it is an addition of credits, loans, guarantees from different sources, and it is not really what a superficial presentation might suggest. we are in this situation because of a fundamental contradiction in a community budget financed by national contributions. and the european union contradicts itself by announcing on the one hand necessary decisions which it cannot finance [nbsp ]and which would require an increase in national contributions under the present system[nbsp ], and on the other hand by asking the member states to bring their public finances back into balance, and thus to reduce their expenditure. i say this in the presence of the greek presidency, which could give frightening figures on the extent of these recommendations and instructions. of course, the two objectives are contradictory and our fellow citizens misunderstand it. we therefore have an obligation - if we want europe to fulfil the functions for which it is so badly needed - to find a way of financing that relieves the member states, that allows for the financing of community policies and that prevents our great european leaders in the european council from constantly contradicting themselves between ambitious announcements and pitiful results.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, as a member of the negotiating team, i would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur rosa[nbsp ]estaràs ferragut for the climate she chaired in this negotiation and for the unwavering support for the outermost regions. as you know, these are particularly vulnerable to extreme weather events. only a few weeks ago, the island of reunion and the island of mayotte were hit by tropical cyclones which caused serious damage to infrastructure and also weakened certain sectors of the economy and the agricultural sector. finally, i believe that the european parliament has lived up to its responsibilities on two important fronts for solidarity, namely the european fund for the development of the least developed countries (efad), the european fund for the improvement of living and working conditions, and the eusf, which we are voting on this evening.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally reforming the solidarity fund. we've been waiting for this vote for nine years. the eu set up the fund in 2002 to help disaster-stricken regions. to date, 23 european countries have benefited from €3.5 billion. that's fine, but it's too little compared to the actual damage. the increase in natural disasters is especially alarming. this year, 26,000 people lost their lives due to bad weather. the cost of the damage is 12 billion euros on our continent. europe could have helped more regions if the fund rules had been simpler and the intervention thresholds less vague. all too often, the affected territories have been subject to a backlog of requests for aid, which have led to false hopes and frustrations. the new rules set the precise threshold of 1.5[nbsp ]% of regional gdp to trigger european aid and an even more favourable percentage for the outermost regions such as réunion or guadeloupe. we have achieved a simpler mechanism for mobilising funds, progress in meeting urgent needs, an extension of the deadline for submitting applications and a consideration of long-term disasters. in conclusion, we must bear in mind that this fund does not prevent weather and damage. he's just a brave european firefighter trying to help. we must work on real risk prevention strategies, particularly through the structural funds.
the author. - madam president, commissioner, minister and colleagues, the news, however terrible, has gone unnoticed in the media: the world food programme has recently announced that it will have to reduce food rations in syria by 20% due to lack of funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. yes, the budgets of the member states and the european union are currently under severe strain. yes, european citizens are suffering the full effects of the crises and austerity measures imposed by their governments. yet nine out of ten europeans still think that the european union should finance humanitarian aid. our fellow citizens remain united in the face of crisis. the member states must hear them. we must continue to finance actions in the areas of the world most affected by poverty and disasters: the central african republic, syria, sudan... there are many humanitarian crises. how can we explain that the european union, the world's largest donor, is content to stand by helplessly when its expertise and effectiveness in the humanitarian field are widely acknowledged? how can we accept that, despite the many warnings from members of parliament, a european budget at a discount has been adopted? to limit our solidarity with our neighbours would be a terrible sign of a europe that is withdrawn into itself and indifferent to the rest of the world. solidarity, in europe of course, but also beyond our borders, is not a vain word. it's the dna of our joint project. we cannot afford to give it up when it is most needed. the member states must undertake to adopt an amending budget as soon as possible. the member states must also show courage: when our partner israel destroys for the umpteenth time european-funded construction in the west bank, the european union can no longer remain silent. she's got to be held accountable. these deliberate destructions can no longer go unpunished. beyond our relations with israel, beyond the position of the european union in the peace talks, this is a matter of condemning a new unacceptable violation of international humanitarian law. it is also, and above all, a question of forcing israel to pay for the damage. not just the ones from last april 8, but the 30 million euros of destruction inflicted by israel on projects funded by the european union and the member states, just between 2001 and 2011. 30 million euros is not nothing! 30 million euros is the amount of aid provided by the european union last december to strengthen support for the victims of the crisis in syria. 30 million euros is what wfp needs every week to help syrians inside the country and those refugees in neighboring countries. 30 million euros is the amount of european humanitarian aid to afghanistan in 2013. solidarity, responsibility and firmness. i would like to say this to the member states.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000. i would like to say that, unfortunately, while this problem is particularly urgent and particularly tragic in the context of humanitarian aid, it is also reflected in all chapters of european policies. we have already seen, for the first time in autumn 2012, a first crisis of payment appropriations which, in fact, led to the execution of the european budget for 2012 with a slight deficit. we started 2013 with considerable arrears from 2012, to be paid in 2013, and despite an extra budget that was seemingly particularly generous, with over 11 billion euro of payment appropriations for 2013, it ended with a lack of payment appropriations for the programmes committed in 2013 of over 23 billion euro. so today, for all community policies, we can see that by the middle of the year we may run out of money. margins remain available, amounting to around eur 700 million below the ceiling for 2014. the committee on budgets, very attentive to this matter [nbsp] we held joint hearings of commissioner lewandowski and commissioner georgieva with mrs jolly and the committee on development gave its consent for all transfers that are legally possible today to meet the most urgent needs such as humanitarian aid. but these transfers give emergency aid money from budget lines that we know will run out of money before the end of the year. normally, a wire transfer involves taking money from lines that are thought to be underused to lines that are overused. but here we're filling a hole by digging another hole. and that is only possible if the council agrees that an additional budget will be needed, probably in the middle of the year, probably before next autumn. commissioner lewandowski will be able to give us the necessary details. but at this stage it must be realised that parliament will be in recess for about four months and will therefore not be able to vote on additional budgets. we'll just be able to ship the current business. therefore, we must absolutely leave a house in order and ensure that when parliament ends its parliamentary term, it leaves the union with the means to finance its policies, emergency needs and other policies as provided for in the 2014 budget.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to recall briefly that the emff is the last fund of the common strategic framework 2014-2020 and that its adoption, which i have no doubt will bring the reform of the common fisheries policy to a close after two years of good work with the commission and the council, despite what some people claim. it is the instrument for sustainable fishing in a competitive sector. this principle has guided us throughout our work. that's two years' work. i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs, including mr guido milana, who accompanied me in this work, the commission, the council, the secretariat, and my collaborators, vincent and emilie.
in writing. article 226 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides that 'the european parliament may, in the exercise of its powers, at the request of one quarter of its component members, set up a temporary committee of inquiry to examine, without prejudice to the powers conferred by the treaties on other institutions or bodies, alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law, unless the facts alleged are the subject of legal proceedings and for as long as the legal proceedings are not concluded'. the purpose of this regulation is to extend the scope of the right of inquiry, to authorize field investigations and to introduce new rules for the summoning and hearing of witnesses. it also aims to ensure that clearly defined offences (unreasonable refusal to provide requested documents, unreasonable refusal to answer a summons or to appear at a hearing as a witness, false testimony and bribery of witnesses) are subject to appropriate sanctions. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i have supported this report because i believe that, just as the treaty of lisbon extended the european parliament's powers as a co-legislator, we must give it stronger means to investigate effectively possible breaches of union law or mismanagement in the implementation of its provisions. while we would have liked to have been even more ambitious, this text is still the result of a compromise with a council and a european commission that feared that parliament would turn its political power into a judicial body, which was not the case at all. but this is an important step forward from the 1995 decision which has so far allowed the european parliament to set up three committees of inquiry. the new powers will therefore include the possibility for a committee of inquiry to carry out any type of inquiry and to obtain the assistance of the national authorities, if necessary, in order to enable its conclusions to be based exclusively on evidence. the introduction of the rule that member states will be obliged to sanction non-compliance with this regulation is also a definite step forward.
in writing. beyond the good intentions displayed to strengthen democratic legitimacy and parliamentary control , this motion for a resolution does not do much good. it should be remembered that committees of inquiry are the basis for drafting a resolution which is not binding, particularly for the commission. in short, the follow-up to the investigations is very limited, for example in the case of spying on the institutions of the european union by the united states, as in others. but worse, under the guise of strengthening and extending the european parliament's powers of scrutiny, this proposal is actually aimed at strengthening the power of the major groups in the european parliament. committees of inquiry may be set up only at the request of one quarter of the members of the european parliament. with the exception of the two groups which co-chair the european parliament, most groups will never be able to meet such a condition. in short, it is a matter of locking down the system to silence certain groups. i am voting against this further reduction in parliamentary powers.
in writing. this own-initiative report helps to advance the debate on the essential relationship between the european parliament and national parliaments. this relationship is crucial for the proper functioning of european democracy, as it brings european policies closer to european citizens. it has been strengthened by the lisbon treaty and will probably need to be further developed in the coming years.
in writing. this report encourages better consideration of national parliaments at the various stages of the european legislative process. it seems to me essential that the european institutions remain attentive to national parliaments, because europe must first and foremost be at the service of the nations and not the other way around. i am very attached to the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i voted in favour of this text. national parliaments are the direct representatives of the peoples of europe and therefore have a major role to play in the european union. i call on the commission to listen to our proposals.
in writing. this motion for a resolution concerns the relations between the european parliament and the national parliaments, presented as part of a 'european parliamentary system'. the aim is to consolidate and enhance these relations, based on the idea that national parliaments are bodies not only for their own state but also for the european union as a whole, since the governments represented in the council are accountable to them. in fact, with this motion for a resolution, the european oligarchy wants to intensify its work of annihilating democratic sovereignty. the proposal is intended to continue the work of placing national parliaments under the supervision of the european parliament, allowing the authors of the proposal to make recommendations, or even injunctions, to national parliaments on their tasks, powers or way of working. behind the avowed ambition of a 'europeanization' of national parliaments, the authors of the proposal seek to achieve a much less avowed objective: the subjection of the last frameworks of popular sovereignty, the national parliaments, to the bureaucratic standards of the european union. i vote against it.
in writing. this report is an assessment of the relations between the european parliament and national parliaments. protocol no 1 to the lisbon treaty deals with the role of national parliaments in the european union and the principle of subsidiarity is a fundamental principle of the european union. i supported this report which stresses the role of national parliaments in the legislative process of the european union. the text emphasises the role of cosac (conference of bodies specialised in community affairs), which must be maintained and strengthened. the commission is also proposing to strengthen interparliamentary relations by revising the rules of procedure and making more resources available. finally, it is necessary to strengthen meetings between political groups and european parties within this interparliamentary cooperation.
in writing. this proposal for a council regulation is part of the legislative package on own resources published by the european commission in june 2011. the lisbon treaty provides that parliament is now consulted on this regulation, which sets out the rules on own resources, i.e. the financial resources which go directly to the budget of the european union, which must therefore be distinguished from contributions paid by the states. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that i am in favour of a complete overhaul of the system of own resources, which, in my view, should be the main source of financing for the union's budget. a high-level think tank has been set up to work on this and i hope that reform will be achieved soon. i voted in favour of parliament's agreement to the council's proposal on technical adjustments.
in writing. this report adopts the financial regulation on the implementation of the union's revenue under the new budgetary framework 2014-2020. this is the first time, under the lisbon treaty, that parliament has voted on these rules for the budgetary implementation of revenue. the report notes, however, that it does so on a text in which none of its proposals has been adopted by the council. this new budgetary power of parliament is totally artificial, so i am voting against this report.
in writing. this proposal for a council decision is the most important element of the legislative package on own resources published by the european commission in june 2011. i am clearly in favour of reforming the system of own resources, that is to say the financial resources which go directly to the budget of the european union, and which must therefore be distinguished from the contributions paid by the states. i therefore voted in favour of parliament's position, which reiterates its call for a thoroughgoing reform of own resources.
in writing. this report amends the new framework governing the union's revenue under the lisbon treaty and the new financial framework 2014-2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. despite this new theoretical power of parliament over revenue, this report endorses the institutional agreement reached for the 2014-2020 budget, which does not change anything about the difficulties of managing the union's revenue and even aggravates them by creating new national exceptions and compensations. the only achievement of parliament, which this report celebrates, is that it has obtained a working group on own resources, on the basis of whose work the commission will be able to propose a reform in 2016: a mere mirage. i am voting against this report, which is a wonderful illustration of the lack of real budgetary power of the european parliament and therefore the lack of european democracy.
in writing. this proposal for a council regulation is part of the legislative package on own resources published by the european commission in june 2011. this regulation is merely a legal revision of existing legislation. i voted yes. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that i am in favour of a complete overhaul of the system of own resources, which, in my view, should be the main source of financing for the union's budget. a high-level think tank has been set up to work on this and i hope that reform will be achieved soon.
in writing. this report makes various regulatory adjustments to the management of the union's revenue to take account of the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. having disapproved of this budget for increased austerity, i can only oppose its implementation measures. the council also rejected all the suggestions put forward by the european parliament, in particular on the use of the proceeds of the financial transaction tax. the rapporteur points out that parliament is powerless to do anything about this, but recommends that these adjustment measures should nevertheless be voted on. i am voting against this absurd report.
in writing. this proposal for a council regulation is part of the legislative package on own resources published by the european commission in june 2011. i am clearly in favour of reforming the system of own resources, that is to say the financial resources which go directly to the budget of the european union, and which must therefore be distinguished from the contributions paid by the states. i therefore voted in favour of parliament's position, which reiterates its call for a thoroughgoing reform of own resources.
in writing. this report is another part of the approval of the new revenue implementation measures in the 2014-2020 budgetary framework. without drawing any conclusions from this by refusing to approve the council's proposal, the report regrets that the council has not provided for any reform of own resources. he argues in the void for a revenue system which is "simple, transparent, fair, visible and intelligible". he said he had "great expectations" for the working group that was set up on the subject in 2014. i am not saying that this is a bad thing, because this working party has no more power to make proposals than the previous ones. it will all depend on the commission's reform initiative with the council's approval. parliament therefore renounces its new budgetary powers by agreeing to be locked into the austerity agreements decided by the council. i am voting against this new hypocritical budget report.
in writing. the budget of the european union is supplied by different types of resources. currently, national contributions to the union budget, based on gross national income, represent 74% of total union revenue. at the same time, the vat resource represents 11% of total union revenue and has developed in such a way that it is also perceived as a national contribution to the budget. the budget of the european union therefore has no financial autonomy and reinforces the logic of 'just return'. moreover, given the current austerity measures, some member states are reluctant to increase their contribution to the budget. in view of this information and the present context, a direct own resources system for the union is the only solution that can be envisaged. i supported this report which calls for reform of the european union's own resources system to make it simpler, more transparent and fairer. these own resources could be focused on a genuine vat-based resource and a financial transaction tax. a dedicated high level group on this issue has been set up, in line with parliament's agreement on the mff 2014-2020, and should provide proposals on the own resources system by 2016.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it aims to strengthen cooperation between the public employment services (pes) of the member states. the aim is to promote cooperation, communication and voluntary exchange of knowledge between them. in these times of economic crisis, it is essential to provide the best possible support for jobseekers.
in writing. the issue of employment remains a real concern for european citizens. i therefore encourage all cooperation at european level to promote the fight against unemployment and the recovery of employment. the establishment of a network of public employment services then appears to be a coherent proposal. this would contribute to the exchange of good practice between these services and would provide better quality information and guidance.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to strengthen cooperation between the public employment services (pes) of the member states. the latter will be able to compare, on the basis of precise figures, the effectiveness of the labour market measures they are responsible for implementing. the rapporteur states that 'the aim cannot be to rank the results of the spe'. the rapporteur also ensures that both geographical and occupational mobility are 'chosen'. but it is also part of the europe 2020 framework. it promotes various harmful liberal policies, such as raising the participation rate up to the age of 64, or promoting apprenticeship contracts to the detriment of the public system of training with school status. the report also refers to the training of workers only through the logic of 'skills' and largely ignores the issue of the broad and sustainable qualification of workers. although i am in favour of cooperation and exchange of information between public employment services, i do not want it to be placed in a liberal framework which is harmful to the law and the quality of work. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. - in these times of crisis, public employment services throughout europe must mobilise to eradicate unemployment. we cannot solve a problem of european proportions by acting individually. we must strengthen cooperation between the public employment services of the member states. we must help jobseekers in their search for employment. they must be informed of job opportunities throughout europe. i am therefore delighted to have voted in favour of this report. it stressed the need for special attention to be paid to combating youth unemployment, promoting sustainable employment and combating social dumping.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to respond to natural disasters and to show european solidarity towards regions facing a difficult situation. this fund is a success and an essential element of solidarity at european level. i therefore supported this text, which aims to extend its scope to natural disasters which occur over a long period of time, such as droughts.
in writing. - the european union solidarity fund was set up to respond to natural disasters and to show european solidarity towards regions of europe facing a difficult situation. the fund was set up in response to the many floods in central europe during the summer of 2002. it is used to help member states and candidate countries affected by natural disasters. from the very beginning of the fund's existence, it was clear that changes were needed to make it more effective. the instrument is generally meeting its objectives well, but its effectiveness is considered insufficient, and some of the criteria for the mobilisation of the fund are considered too complex or not clear enough. the procedure for granting aid is too long, since it is usually paid about a year after the disaster. i voted in favour of this report, which makes it possible to make this major instrument of solidarity more flexible and thus more effective.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this text amending the legislation on the european union solidarity fund to improve its effectiveness. the fund was set up to enable the european union to respond to major disasters on its territory. however, it became necessary to improve the way in which they functioned and the speed with which they responded. solidarity is a european principle which we must protect and promote. i therefore particularly support the clarification of the scope of this fund in order to put an end to legal uncertainties. the commission has also made a number of proposals to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the reform of the european union solidarity fund. the recent severe weather events in europe, particularly in south-eastern france, have highlighted the importance of having an effective financial aid system in place to deal with the damage caused. by simplifying procedures, extending application deadlines and establishing a clear eligibility threshold, the reform is moving in the right direction. regions where damage amounts to more than 1.5% of their gdp will now be able to benefit from european aid.
in writing. since 2002, the european union solidarity fund, set up to respond to natural disasters, has been used for 52[nbsp ] events, demonstrating its effectiveness. i voted in favour of this report which clarifies the scope of the directive and suggests that it be extended to natural disasters which occur over a long period of time, such as droughts. the text clarifies the eligibility criteria for regional disasters and introduces a system of advance payments. the amendments to the solidarity fund will improve the flexibility and responsiveness of the mechanism to crises. the union must be more than a common market: it must create bonds of solidarity between nations and be able to demonstrate this in the most difficult circumstances.
in writing. i had already voted in favour of the reform of this fund in january 2013, but stressed that it did not address the increase in natural disasters and the worsening of their consequences, which are directly linked to european productivist policies. the text still does not make this observation, but at least calls for more risk prevention policies by the states. it simplifies the granting process and obliges the commission to respond to these applications within 6 weeks, which is a start. but as this fund was cut in half when the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework was voted, the allocation of grants will clearly fall short of expectations. i denounce this absurdity, but in view of the urgent need to respond to the management of increasing natural disasters, i vote in favour.
in writing. the report proposes that the eusf, which provides compensation for natural disasters (cyclones, tropical storms, etc.), can now be mobilised as soon as the estimated damage is equivalent to 1% of regional gdp in the ors, compared with 1.5% for the other regions of the european union. this threshold could make a difference to europe's response to the many tropical storms and cyclones that hit overseas. the situation for mayotte has also been clarified by the text which now considers it to be a nuts-2 type region. all these measures are real advances for our territories, which are on the front line of climate change, and are increasingly affected by cyclones, droughts or threatened, as in the caribbean, by earthquakes. this fund does not solve everything, but it is an expression of much-needed solidarity and will help the ors recover more easily from natural disasters. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - reform of the european union solidarity fund became an absolute necessity. this instrument was created to respond rapidly to natural disasters that occur on european territory. although the fund generally met its objectives, its effectiveness was considered insufficient. moreover, regional disasters were hardly taken into account and too often regional authorities were left helpless by a belated refusal. i am very pleased to have voted in favour of this report. the reform of the solidarity fund will clarify the scope of the fund, tighten the eligibility criteria and speed up the administrative procedure. in addition, the regulation will provide for the possibility of an advance payment of the financial assistance. this fund is a clear testimony to the european territories that need assistance the most. we must do everything possible to preserve it and to make the best use of this instrument.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a decision is to increase the capital of the european investment fund to eur 170 million. the european investment fund was set up in 1994 to help small and medium-sized enterprises. its majority shareholder is the european investment bank. the eif provides risk capital to smes, in particular start-ups and technology-oriented enterprises. it also provides guarantees to financial institutions (e.g. banks) to cover their loans to smes. i am in favour of this capital increase, which will be useful to boost growth. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the capital increase of the european investment fund is a major step forward in promoting sme investment in the european union. the european parliament can welcome the adoption of such a text which, by creating a favourable investment environment, will help to revive growth and employment in europe. it is essential to provide new financing opportunities for smes, the backbone of our economies, which require special attention.
in writing. the report seeks to secure the european union's subscription of eur 450 million for the capital increase of the european investment fund. the fund is designed to support the financing of the economy, in particular smes, and is entirely geared to competitiveness objectives and disconnected from the social needs of europeans and the ecological imperatives of the production bifurcation. this fund is a pure product of the supply policy which leads to producing anything, anyhow. the capital of this fund is ridiculous (3 billion recapitalised at 4.5 billion) in view of the existing investment needs in europe. it thus reflects the weakness of the growth pact announced by françois hollande in 2012, the effects of which are still to be seen. this fund is indeed a little-known figure compared to the investment funds deployed by the usa, but also the major emerging countries. i deplore the lack of ambition of this fund and disapprove of its productivist aims. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. with the capital increase for the european investment fund, we are once again demonstrating that europe cares about the competitiveness of its enterprises. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which will eventually allow an increase in the capital of this fund of some eur 1.5 billion. this is the amount of finance available to provide risk capital to our smes (especially start-ups and technology-based companies) and to cover loans granted to them by financial institutions. i welcome this measure, which adds another stone to the building block of growth and employment, and which complements the efforts already undertaken by the european union through its programmes dedicated to education, training, research, innovation and infrastructure.
in writing. pharmacovigilance legislation for medicines is essential to protect patients. this was revised in 2010 and again in 2012 following the mediator scandal. i voted in favour of this report, which is balanced in its wording, so that the financing mechanism necessary for the implementation of this pharmacovigilance can come into force as soon as possible.
in writing. the european medicines agency is given new powers in the area of monitoring medicinal products and the risks they pose. this draft regulation gives it new means of doing so. strengthening pharmacovigilance at european level is a good thing: by pooling and centralising data from all member states, the chances of detecting hazards associated with a particular medicine are increased. however, to finance this enhanced surveillance, the draft text does not provide for additional fees to be paid by manufacturers, but for a transfer of fees collected by the national authorities to the european agency. this could weaken the whole surveillance system by weakening the national agencies. on the contrary, it is the laboratories that have to pay for this increased surveillance of their products. the text also provides for reductions in fees for older medicines already authorised. the ombudsman's case is a clear example of this. the lobbyists have been too heavy handed on this text, i vote against.
in writing. i supported this text which grants the republic of tunisia macro-financial assistance amounting to eur 250 million. the objective is to contribute to meeting tunisia's residual external financing needs in 2014 and 2015, to support fiscal consolidation and external stabilisation efforts under the imf programme, while enhancing governance and economic transparency, and to improve the conditions for sustainable growth. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be provided in full to tunisia in the form of loans with a maximum duration of 15 years.
in writing. the tunisian economy has suffered greatly from the international crisis, as a result of regional destabilization linked to the arab spring revolutions and the crisis in libya. the country itself embarked on a democratic transition after ben ali's fall in january 2011, holding free elections and convening a constituent assembly. the new constitution adopted last january includes important advances in the area of individual rights and freedoms and equality between men and women. however, tunisia is not immune to further destabilisation, especially if the path to democracy is met by economic stagnation. political change must go hand in hand with modernisation and economic recovery. the european union will provide €300 million in macro-economic assistance to tunisia through its macro-financial assistance instrument to enable the country to start implementing the modernisation of its economy. the union must, for its part, take stock of the changes taking place in its neighbourhood, both to the east and to the south, and develop deep and mutually beneficial partnerships.
in writing. the union proposes to make available to tunisia macrofinancial assistance of up to eur 300 million in the form of a loan for a maximum of 15 years. under the guise of 'assistance', this is in fact to subject tunisia to the requirements of the imf. everything is very clear on this. the financial assistance is intended only to 'support the implementation of an action programme comprising strong adjustment and structural reform measures' in a 'budgetary consolidation' objective. the mass is said: austerity for everyone ! this loan will add to the country's debt accumulated by dictatorial regimes. ngos are calling for it to be deleted or at least audited. where is the assistance when the borrowing country is impoverished by the terms of the loan? and what good is it to get rid of a dictator to submit to the yoke of the imf? i vote against this unjust agreement.
in writing. the european union is a party to the international convention for the conservation of atlantic tunas. at one of the last meetings of its committee, it was decided to set up a new plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. i voted in favour of this text, which allows such a plan to be implemented at european level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the romeva i rueda report on the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan, which allows the transposition into european law of recommendation 13-08 of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccst). this recommendation clarifies the fishing authorisation period for baitboats and longliners and clarifies the range of gear authorised to fish for bluefin tuna throughout the year in order to allow the recovery and conservation of stocks.
in writing. the report aims to incorporate into european law the latest recommendations of the international convention for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icta). the commission is proposing to amend the multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks by changing the dates and types of fishing authorised. it is necessary. i vote for it. however, i am very disappointed that the amendment of the european regulation is so late, when the new regulation was to apply from 1 january 2013 and the iccat decision dates from 2012
in writing. the commission proposal lays down minimum rules for the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the field of counterfeiting the euro and other currencies. it also introduces common provisions to strengthen the fight against such offences and to improve the investigations relating to them. i voted in favour of this reform, and i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. i supported this text to strengthen the criminal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting. the implementation of minimum rules on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the field of counterfeiting of coins is a very appropriate response to prevent and suppress counterfeiting in europe. according to the european central bank, 184 000 counterfeit euro coins and 531 000 counterfeit banknotes were withdrawn from circulation in 2012. effective responses are needed to this phenomenon, which directly harms consumers and the competitiveness of businesses. the introduction of effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions in the member states is therefore required.
in writing. the aim is to harmonise criminal policies for the suppression of euro counterfeiting. this text builds on the pericles programme, which was amended in 2013 to accommodate private entities, thus privatising the fight against euro counterfeiting. however, since this text is trying so hard to combat counterfeiting, i shall abstain in order not to hinder it.
in writing. some of my colleagues, with good intentions, thought they could go against nature and deny that pollen is naturally present in honey. it is as if we were to pass laws defining egg yolk as an ingredient of the egg and making it compulsory to display on that egg the characteristics of the egg yolk that is present! i am naturally aware of the important issues behind this debate... yes, i think consumers should be informed about the presence of trace amounts of gmos in food products and i fully support the rule that any ingredient containing at least 0.9% gmos should be labelled as such. but the rules here are about ingredients, not the natural constituents of food. therefore, this rule does not apply to pollen. bees sometimes forage more than 10 kilometers from their hive in fields of all kinds and... these bees have no gps, no system to avoid contact with gmos. it would have been totally irresponsible to require all beekeepers to test every pot of honey to ensure that the bees have not been exposed to gmos. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the girling report on the amendment of the honey directive. like the rapporteur, i consider honey to be a natural product of which pollen is a natural component and not an ingredient. i also think that attention should be paid to the direct and indirect effects of this commission proposal on the beekeeping sector. the vote by the european parliament means that producers will not have to bear any additional costs for the labelling of their products.
in writing. i supported this text which defined pollen as a constituent of honey and not an ingredient which can be separated from it. as i have said before, to say otherwise would have had a negative impact on the beekeeping industry. in particular, it was allegedly subject to excessive labelling requirements and testing, which would result in an increase in the price of honey, which would be detrimental to the consumer. with pollen as an ingredient, honey would have lost its natural product status. this would have opened the door to the addition of artificial products.
in writing. - i wished to vote in favour of this text which defines pollen as a natural component of honey, rather than an ingredient. i think this text strikes a good balance between protecting the interests of beekeepers and the right to information of european consumers. the costs of testing to obtain the information needed for labelling could have had a negative impact on the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and could have led to the closure of some beekeepers.
in writing. - the european parliament has just voted on the amendment of the honey directive. following the 2011 ruling of the court of justice of the european union requiring that honey containing gmo pollen be labelled, the european commission has instead presented a revision of the honey directive that avoids this labelling by a semantic trick that allows the gmo pollen to be considered as a natural constituent of honey. we, the green group, are standing together with the associations and professionals in the sector to reject this hypocritical proposal. meps today voted in favour of not requiring labelling of gmo pollen in honey. this is intolerable ! by hiding the contamination of honey with gmos from consumers, it is the consumer's freedom of choice - as opposed to the presence of gmos in his food - but also the freedom for beekeepers to produce without gmos that are clearly violated.
in writing. i supported this first reading agreement, which maintains the definition of pollen as a constituent in its own right, not an ingredient, of the honey product. labelling pollen as an ingredient would have been technically and economically very difficult for producers to implement. it would not have contributed anything to the traceability of gmo pollen in honey, as the product as a whole is already subject to the regulations on gmos and their labelling. finally, an 'ingredient' approach could have opened the way for the appearance of fraudulent and adulterated honey on the market. i therefore welcome the fact that this text continues to consider honey as a single ingredient product.
in writing. i voted against the legislative resolution on honey because the text proposed in plenary was not improved following the last trilogue. unfortunately, by adopting it as such, i.e. by defining pollen as a natural constituent of honey and not as an ingredient, this text is concealing the presence of gmos from consumers. indeed, if pollen is considered to be a natural constituent of honey, there is no need for labelling. if, on the other hand, it is an ingredient, then beekeepers may, under certain conditions, be required to label their honey to inform the consumer of the presence of gmos in their product. the majority also did not want to adopt the alternative solution on the labelling of pollen as an ingredient in the case of the presence of gmo fields within a 10 km radius.
in writing. i call for a ban on the open-field cultivation of gmos. without going back to that objective, the report proposes to define pollen as an ingredient in honey, so that labelling of genetically modified pollen would be compulsory. this could have been a legitimate minimum consumer protection. but the amendments have had the effect of emptying the text of its substance, i.e. consumer protection against gmos, and i am voting against.
in writing. i voted against the report on honey from the agreement with the council, which raises a problem in terms of the classification of pollen. if pollen is considered a natural constituent, there is no need for labelling. if, on the other hand, it is an ingredient, then beekeepers may need to label their honey to inform the consumer about the presence of gmos in their product. in the previous votes i advocated an alternative solution: without gm crops near the beekeepers, and therefore without the risk of creating gm pollen, pollen should be considered as a natural constituent of honey. on the other hand, if there are gm fields within a 10[nbsp]km radius, the pollen had to be considered an ingredient, a status which implies extensive analyses. our approach was to support all producers who are trying to bring quality, non-gmo honey to the market, meeting consumer demand and in a spirit of proportionality of controls. i regret that the fn and ump members supported this text under the pressure of economic arguments, thus giving the report a majority.
in writing. the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) is the financial component of the reform of the common fisheries policy. it is also one of the structural funds covered by the common strategic framework. the emff has a budget of eur 6,4 billion for the period 2014-2020. it will be implemented through a single operational programme for each member state. i voted in favour of this text, taking account of the environmental, economic and social aspects.
in writing. this text establishes the european maritime and fisheries fund for the period 2014-2020. the fund then makes it possible to implement a european sustainable and competitive fisheries policy in an appropriate way. it was important to provide the european union with an appropriate financial instrument to meet these objectives. the provisions to promote job creation in this sector and to help young people to integrate into this sector are particularly interesting.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the financial part of the common fisheries policy (cfp), the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). this text is too ambiguous and subject to various interpretations to know whether it will really allow the principle of sustainability of resources to be implemented, a victory we had obtained in the very philosophy of the cfp reform. it will depend on the interpretation given by the member states. however, the resolution does have the merit of, among other things, seeking to increase funding for the collection of data on the state of fish stocks, significantly strengthen controls and improve safety and working conditions on board vessels.
in writing. - while the fisheries fund was due to come into force on 1 january 2014, i voted in favour of this report in order to make the sector's hopes come true and to ensure that the european union supports fisheries professionals who had high expectations of this new budgetary programming. thanks to the european parliament's action, the €6.5 billion from the european maritime and fisheries fund will make it possible to provide financial support for the installation of young fishermen, the renewal of engines for fishing vessels up to 24 metres, and the creation of a mutual fund to help professionals in the sector following crises or natural disasters. we would have liked to go further and encourage aid for the renewal of ships, but we are nevertheless satisfied that we have been able to make our point. the european parliament has thus expressed its determination to support the modernisation of fisheries and in this sense this report is a first step along this road which will have to be consolidated in the future.
in writing. the creation of a european market for fishing rights was the key point in the reform of the common fisheries policy. parliament abolished the possibility of selling and buying fishing quotas (transferable fishing concessions). that is a decisive positive point. the commission has also proposed that the emff should provide financial support to fishermen during the biological rest periods necessary for the reproduction of the species. it also supports young fishermen to help them settle in. it increases the resources allocated to the collection of data on the resource and fishing activity. i vote for it.
in writing. the emff contains all the aid for fishermen. the regulation provides for specific measures for fishermen operating in the overseas fishing zones: a scheme to compensate for the extra costs incurred by fishermen and a specific state aid scheme for overseas fisheries. this regulation redefines the concept of artisanal fishing to adapt it to the situation of the fisheries in the outermost regions, provides for financing for the renovation of artisanal fishing vessels and installation aid for young fishermen. all these measures are fundamental for our fishermen. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - we must support the fisheries sector, which is sometimes in great difficulty. the european maritime and fisheries fund has a budget of 6.4 billion, which is a considerable sum. the financial aspect is indeed paramount, but it must be accompanied by precise and innovative strategies in order to manage this fund as efficiently as possible. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. it helped to define the strategic priorities of the emff: sustainable fisheries, a more competitive fisheries sector and an ambitious social dimension. by strengthening the fisheries sector and offering better living conditions to our fishermen, we will be able to increase europe's potential for competitiveness in this sector.
in writing. the emff, the european maritime and fisheries fund, is the financial component of the reform of the common fisheries policy. it will have a budget of €6.4 billion for the period 2014-2020 and will be implemented through a single operational programme for each member state. the emff will be structured around three axes. first, the development of environmentally sustainable fishing: investments will be made in more selective fishing gear and priority will be given to data collection and the implementation of resource conservation measures. the second priority is to promote the competitiveness of the fisheries sector by providing aid for the installation of fishermen under 40 years of age and investments in vessels (replacement of engines, etc.). the social part will include vocational training for fishermen and the creation of an insurance mutual fund. these three guidelines are in line with the general approach to reform of the fisheries policy and the distribution of the funds available between these guidelines is balanced, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted for the european maritime and fisheries fund. it was to be operational from 1 january 2014. the european commission is now expected to publish it in may. the emff has a budget of eur 6.5 billion and is intended to finance the implementation of the common fisheries policy. i welcome the agreement negotiated with the council, which will make it possible, in particular, to support the settlement of young fishermen by means of financial aid and the renewal of engines. mutual funds can help professionals in times of crisis. the outermost regions will receive additional compensation and, finally, the collection of scientific data and the control of fisheries will be financed in a meaningful way. i regret, however, that the discussions on aid for the renewal of ships have not been successful. they would have improved economic efficiency, safety, selectivity and reduced pollution, and i will continue to fight for a modern vision of fisheries. i also regret that the majority of my colleagues from the greens and the gue abstained.
in writing. in december 2012, the uk government announced its intention to sell the current site at bramshill and indicated that it no longer wished to host cepol's headquarters on its territory. it recently indicated that it could allow the necessary time for the relocation of cepol's headquarters and thus keep the current bramshill site open until summer 2014 at the latest. in this context, the hungarian government proposed hosting cepol in budapest and almost all member states signed the legislative initiative to change cepol's seat. in supporting this report, the european parliament and i have endorsed this position.
in writing. this text confirms the new headquarters of the european police college (cepol) in budapest, hungary. the united kingdom no longer wished to host the european union agency on its territory, and it became necessary to move it. i do not think that the european parliament should be involved in the evaluation of the cities which could host the seat. the role of the european parliament as a co-legislator should be given greater consideration in this type of decision.
in writing. the european police college is a training body for european police services. its headquarters were in the united kingdom until the united kingdom unilaterally announced its wish for a new headquarters to be found, without offering any other location on its territory. the proposal is to approve the relocation of the agency to budapest. even though hungary has been distinguished in recent years for its national liberty-killing laws. in fact, this case is emblematic of the contempt in which the european parliament, the recording chamber of a move, is held without a prior impact study and without an assessment of the functioning of the european police college. the acceptance of such methods could set a bad precedent, particularly with regard to the recurring question of the inappropriate idea of bringing all the european parliament's departments together in brussels. i vote against it.
mr president, yes, the directive which was annulled by the court of justice on 9 april was adopted following the attacks in madrid and london in 2004-05. yes, terrorism and organised crime require action to protect the public, but not just any action. the court of justice has rightly pointed out that the legislature must respect fundamental freedoms and rights and the principles governing them, in particular the principle of proportionality. that directive had imposed a disproportionate obligation on telecommunications operators and internet service providers to retain data on a general basis concerning the origin, destination, date, time, duration, type of communication, the technology used and the location. so it was mass surveillance that was put in place and we know, especially after the prism/nsa committee of inquiry, that that's not the right method. the police themselves say that only targeted approaches are effective. and that's why we're trying to find the so-called balance. the ngos had pointed this out at the time, they had denounced it, including at the time of its transposition into national law. many member states have delayed transposition for these reasons and several constitutional courts in some member states have found the directive incompatible with their constitutions. the court found that the directive was a particularly serious interference with the right to respect for private life and the protection of personal data, since it affected the retention, use and extent of data collected without the subscriber or user being informed. the court is merely repeating the complaints which many of us in this chamber have repeatedly expressed. member states which have transposed this directive must suspend their legislation without delay. if there is a review, it must be in line with the court of justice's judgment. the commission is able, in certain areas - particularly economic ones - to follow the case-law of the court. it would be good if it did so with the same zeal as the commission does for fundamental rights. i hope this decision will put an end to the security and repressive drift we have been experiencing for years, including [nbsp]it has already been said[nbsp] when adopting the swift, pnr or safe harbour agreements with the united states. all international agreements in this field must be suspended, as must all european union legislation which infringes these rights. for once, the union and the member states would be able to harmonize their actions and their words. the european citizens would welcome this, they need the values of the european union to be respected. i hope we will move in that direction.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years our parliament has always been at the forefront of the fight on the question of the protection of personal data. the judgment last week by the european court of justice in luxembourg shows that we are not entirely alone in this fight. i know it's also shared by you. the court confirmed the legitimacy of the objective pursued by the directive on the retention of personal data, but it considered above all that the systematic and unconditional retention of the accessory communication data of all european users for a specific period of time was not proportionate. the lack of guarantees regarding the security of data, the conditions of access and the conditions for their use therefore constitutes a particularly serious breach of the privacy of europeans. we were not unaware of the weaknesses of this text, which was adopted in 2005 in a specific context following several attacks. the european commission had in fact outlined the limitations in its evaluation. we must also admit that this text has become largely obsolete in a context of big data and technological evolution which allows, as we see on a daily basis, the tracking of citizen communications by any private organization. what are the consequences of all this? this judgment sounds like a strong message to the council. the adoption of a robust set of rules on the protection of personal data seems more necessary than ever to better protect european citizens and, above all, to restore their trust in the institutions that work for their daily security. the nsa scandal and its ramifications have made it clear that the retention of personal data is subject to unacceptable abuses. while the fight against terrorism and serious crime remains a strong concern, this cannot in any case be done at the expense of respect for the privacy of our european citizens. europe that protects cannot be just a slogan. it must be translated into action. this is what we expect from the next european commission, which will be proposing a new text shortly. at least that's what we hope.
mr president, it is a curious opinion that the greek council of state has just taken. is this really legal advice? the return directive, which is not a panacea, states that detention must remain exceptional and cannot exceed 18 months. it is becoming the rule and we are trying to prolong it by all means. this maximum duration is already applied by the greek authorities. the greek council of state has ruled that detention can be indefinite until the migrants cooperate. no, there is no invasion of migrants. it is by speaking like this that europe and its so-called values are betrayed. the un and the council of state condemn the member states in this area. and if we are not moving forward, it is because the states most concerned do not want to. the only solidarity they want to hear about is financial solidarity. the commission must clearly condemn such practices. the balance sheet of the return directive may give us an opportunity to do so. i would like to know, commissioner, what you mean when you say that britain has waived its obligation to apply the return directive? we must act quickly because we may fear a contagious effect. the commission is too hesitant in this matter. it should be as firm as it is in economic matters.
mr president, the people we are talking about here are not people outside the european union. these are generally people who have lived for several years [nbsp]or sometimes up to ten years[nbsp] in europe, who have worked there [nbsp]often clandestinely[nbsp], who have sometimes started families there and who, one day, because their residence permit is not in order, will find themselves facing extremely violent procedures of arrest, imprisonment, separation and expulsion. that's what we're talking about. these procedures are extremely violent, and therefore lead to a great deal of violations of rights. that's why it's imperative to be uncompromising. when we denounced, at the time, the return directive -- we called it at the time the shame directive -- what did we mean? we wanted to challenge the fact that this directive essentially enshrines detention and expulsion as a way of managing the european union's migration policies. that is the fundamental problem! there are [nbsp ]has never been disputed a number of safeguards on the duration and conditions of detention, on the accessibility of detention centres and on confinement as a last resort. however, they are not respected in most member states! your communication says so quite explicitly. i think we should not delay a single second. we must launch infringement proceedings against the member states, and we must be extremely categorical! because the violations are unbearable and a disgrace to europe!
mr president, commissioner, the last few years have seen the breakthrough of asia as a major player in the world economy. while western markets are in crisis and struggling to recover, asian countries are recording growth rates of 5 to 6%, and sometimes even double digits. the european union cannot remain indifferent to this. we were talking a while ago about emerging countries; the european union is now dealing with strong economies, with real partners. we have naively, and sometimes even arrogantly, underestimated these powers. now is the time to correct our mistakes. vietnam has a growth rate of over 5% in 2013, which is quite significant. we cannot pass up the opportunity to have a special relationship with a country which is experiencing such economic growth. we have already started six rounds of negotiations with vietnam for a free trade agreement. negotiations are conducted to the satisfaction of both parties. as europeans, we must safeguard the interests of our most sensitive businesses and sectors, while at the same time adopting a policy of opening up markets. we must ensure that this agreement benefits the european union first and foremost. vietnam imports mainly european high-tech products and thereby recognises the union's global importance in terms of innovative technology. let us be clear: technological know-how is europe's only competitive advantage over the rest of the world. i am convinced of this and it is thanks to this technological know-how that we will put the european economy back on its feet. europe cannot afford to miss the asian train. let us encourage these economic partnerships with asia and together work towards a more internationally competitive europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i had exactly the same request, namely to vote by roll-call on the resolution at the final text level, if you agree. yesterday we asked for a roll-call vote, but as we were in the middle of voting it was too late. that is why i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept the roll-call vote on the text at the time of the final vote. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. following the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, the agreements concluded so far between the european union and its partners, including albania, should be adapted. the report does not raise any technical problems and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. by voting in favour of this text, we approve the conclusion of a protocol between the european community and its member states and albania, to take account of croatia's accession to the european union. the effects of croatia's accession must be taken into account in the preparation of trade agreements. the protocol contains interesting provisions on the rules of origin.
in writing. this text simply aligns eu law by integrating the last member state to join the others, which have already signed the agreement with albania. but i am completely opposed to the conditions imposed on the peoples in these stabilisation and association agreements, which present the core of european integration and structural reforms as the stick. i am against this unjust blackmail and i am against any enlargement of the eu under these conditions, of which croatia is no exception.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which technically manages the rules on immigration between the kingdom of norway and the european union. as there are many asylum applications within the european union, it is useful to coordinate these applications as much as possible with our partner countries.
in writing. the european asylum support office was established to strengthen practical cooperation between member states on asylum. the purpose of this text is to enable the kingdom of norway to participate in this bureau, by specifying the modalities. i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of the participation of the kingdom of norway, which can bring real added value to the support office's support activities, such as the exchange of good practice, the collection and analysis of information and the establishment of an effective alert system.
in writing. this plenary session gave us the opportunity to vote on two of the four arrangements governing the participation of the countries associated with the bea. as a fictitious rapporteur, i supported it: more than just a logical development linked to the association of norway and liechtenstein to the dublin system, their participation will also bring a clear added value to the activities of the eab. in this win-win equation, two subscribers are missing from the call: iceland and switzerland. as iceland has not yet signed the arrangement, it was not possible from a procedural point of view to submit it to the plenary for consideration. on the other hand, for switzerland, this is also explained by the results of the referendum on 9 february on the 'initiative against mass immigration'. the consequences of this vote are not all known, but it is undeniably causing a redistribution of cards in the area of free movement and without sanctioning switzerland, it is essential to take the time necessary to measure the impact of this vote in the area of asylum and international and european commitments.
in writing. the purpose of this decision is to enable norway, which is not an eu member, to participate in the activities of the european asylum support office (and in fact to make a financial contribution). the office coordinates ongoing and emergency assistance and the exchange of data and good practice on refugee reception. in fact, norway is one of the 12 european countries that already have an annual resettlement programme for refugees. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which technically manages the rules on immigration between liechtenstein and the european union. as there are many asylum applications within the european union, it is useful to coordinate these applications as much as possible with our partner countries.
in writing. the european asylum support office was established to strengthen practical cooperation between member states on asylum. the purpose of this text is to enable the principality of liechtenstein to participate in the bureau, and to specify the procedures for its participation. i am in favour of this because the participation of the principality of liechtenstein can bring real added value to the support office's support activities, such as the exchange of good practice, the collection and analysis of information and the establishment of an effective alert system.
in writing. this plenary session gave us the opportunity to vote on two of the four arrangements governing the participation of the countries associated with the bea. as a fictitious rapporteur, i supported it: more than just a logical development linked to the association of liechtenstein and norway to the dublin system, their participation will also bring a clear added value to the activities of the eab. in this win-win equation, two subscribers are missing from the call: iceland and switzerland. as iceland has not yet signed the arrangement, it was not possible from a procedural point of view to submit it to the plenary for consideration. on the other hand, for switzerland, this is also explained by the results of the referendum on 9 february on the 'initiative against mass immigration'. the consequences of this vote are not all known, but it is undeniably causing a redistribution of cards in the area of free movement and without sanctioning switzerland, it is essential to take the time necessary to measure the impact of this vote in the area of asylum and international and european commitments.
in writing. the european asylum support office coordinates ongoing and emergency assistance and the exchange of data and good practice on refugee reception. the aim of this recommendation is to enable liechtenstein, which is not a member of the european union, to participate in the activities of the office and in fact to make a financial contribution. this office is a good thing, i vote for it. although i have to admit, the demands were not. in 2011, for example, 75 people applied for asylum in the small principality (and two were accepted). the figure is probably higher for tax exiles.
in writing. the objective of this text is to increase the capital available for longterm investment in the eu economy. in concrete terms, the aim is to create a regulatory framework for a new type of fund, the 'european long-term investment funds'. i think this is a good initiative and the rules adopted for this new passport are balanced. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. long-term financing is essential to enable the european economy to move towards sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide financing for various long-term infrastructure projects, for unlisted companies and for smes, which issue equity or debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. the commission proposal aims to provide investors with a certain degree of security when investing in the long term. attempts to shift these investments towards social and environmental sustainability have not been taken into account. the priority for investment is public-private partnerships and privatisations. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted for this report. the report aims to create a european fund to finance the long-term investment needed to restore growth in europe. the socialists have excluded real estate investment from the fund's beneficiaries as it does not contribute to the project's growth and employment objective.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out a procedural framework for the establishment and implementation of maritime spatial planning programmes and integrated coastal zone management strategies by member states. this should contribute to the achievement of the existing objectives of the european union, namely: ensuring the union's energy supply, promoting maritime transport, encouraging sustainable fisheries and aquaculture, preserving and protecting the environment and ensuring that coastal and marine areas are resilient to climate change.
in writing. this vote allows the establishment of a framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management. the coastal areas are dynamic employment areas and concentrate a large proportion of the population. therefore, special attention is paid to these geographical areas. the aim of this text is not only to develop the maritime economy in a sustainable way but also to guarantee legal certainty for smes in this sector. however, i support the effort to give member states more freedom in how they implement integrated coastal zone management, in a way that takes account of their specificities.
in writing. a report based on goodwill, which aims to promote within each state the conditions for the exploitation of its maritime space and encourages dialogue between member states for the development of concerted projects. the maritime companies need legal certainty and political stability. that is the real purpose of the directive being prepared. in any event, the applicable legal framework will remain the law of the sea, which the directive will not cover, and discussions between states will remain a matter of interest. this text, if it is of no use, contains no constraints. but it supports and reinforces the call for offshore gas, oil and other raw materials. it's a call for the ecological destruction of marine ecosystems. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which seeks to improve the management of the european maritime area in order to strengthen the sustainable development of the maritime sector in europe. by 2021, each member state will have to draw up a maritime plan based on the protection of the ecosystem and the coexistence of different maritime activities. these plans will have to take into account the promotion of maritime transport, energy supply, environmental protection, sustainable fisheries and also sustainable tourism.
in writing. with an additional 1.6 million jobs, economic activities linked to the sea represent considerable growth potential. however, the increase in uses is creating conflicts over coastal areas that require management through tools such as maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management. as rapporteur for the committee on fisheries, i have strongly emphasized the importance of integrated maritime policies. i have advocated coherence between maritime facades and these relevant administrative and political controls and i am pleased that this proposal has been accepted. states will thus be able to choose the most appropriate level of governance for planning the marine area. the compromise reached with the council is very poor. in the face of a council that was overwhelmingly opposed to a directive, the parliament's negotiating team gave way to a great deal, and integrated coastal zone management was simply abolished. this was one of the two pillars of the directive, allowing the marine area to be understood in a strategic way.
in writing. this text deals with the budgetary forecasts for the european parliament for the year 2015. it is important to be realistic about this forecast of revenue and expenditure. the budget of the european union must be adapted to the economic difficulties facing europe. the european parliament must also make an effort in these times of budgetary constraints. savings can be made in particular within the departments of this institution. in addition, unnecessary investments such as those made for the house of european history should be suspended.
in writing. this report provides a preview of the european parliament's 2015 budget. the exercise is highly controversial and futile, as a new european parliament will be elected in may and will vote on the 2015 budget. in any case, the guidelines proposed in this report are wrong, especially the recurrent obsession with cutting costs on translation services. while the right to have access to all documents and to follow all meetings in all the languages of the union is still far from being guaranteed, this report recommends further reductions in translation facilities. the translation of amendments in committee would no longer be systematic, for example, but would be available only on request, which would complicate the work of members, especially in legislative procedures which are often very busy and complex. i regret this obsession with austerity and therefore vote against this report.
in writing. the aim of this proposal for a directive is to improve the application of competition law by facilitating, in particular, the bringing of claims for damages by victims of infringements. i consider that the balance reached in the negotiations with the council and the commission is satisfactory and that this reform is going in the right direction, so i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text which contributes to better protection for individuals or companies that are victims of anti-competitive practices within the european union. the protection of victims of infringements of competition law is enhanced by the easy introduction of actions for damages. this vote is an important step towards ensuring the proper application of community law. too often individuals or companies who are victims of collusion or abuse of dominant positions are discouraged from taking action to recover damages for the damage. this situation had to be remedied, in particular by harmonising the procedures for such infringements between the member states.
in writing. the aim of this text is to harmonise national and community law in the handling of judicial proceedings, in order to guarantee effective protection mechanisms for victims of infringements of competition law. victims may be businesses and public authorities but also consumers. but in the report and in the preparatory documents used, no social objective is mentioned which is more important than compliance with competition law. however, compliance with competition law cannot be an objective in itself; it only makes sense if it prevents the creation of private monopolies and oligopolies which are detrimental to the interests of employees and citizens. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive which will make it easier for european consumers to be compensated in the event of competition fraud by companies (agreement on prices by cartels, abuse of a dominant position, etc.).
in writing. waste shipments pose a very big environmental and ethical problem when it comes to hidden shipments of hazardous or polluting materials to countries with low labour costs. i voted in favour of this report which seeks to regulate these transfers and put an end to the abuses which have been encountered so far.
in writing. the total tonnage of illicit waste transfers within and outside the eu is estimated at 2.8 million tonnes per year. this leads, among other things, to particularly high cleanup costs. the purpose of this text is to strengthen the powers of the control and inspection bodies in the field of waste shipment. this is a necessary measure for the protection of the environment.
in writing. - the european parliament has today given a strong signal by adopting an ambitious text to combat illegal waste shipments. i voted in favour of this new regulation because it aims to strengthen the provisions on controls on shipments of waste within the eu and to third countries. too many member states have neglected controls on shipments of waste on their territory, thus facilitating the passage of illicit waste exporters who chose to move their waste through member states where controls were weak. it is high time that inspection authorities were given more powers, including the ability to require evidence from exporters suspected of illegal waste shipments.
in writing. in 2010, according to eurostat, the eu member states generated 101 mt of hazardous waste out of a total of 927 mt of waste. the waste shipment regulation prohibits the export of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries. exports of non-hazardous waste to non-oecd countries for recovery are permitted provided that the waste facility is operated in accordance with environmental and human health protection standards. but there are many cases of illegal transfers, in 2008, 23[nbsp]% of transfers were non-compliant, and 79% of the companies checked were not in compliance. these transfers contribute to pollution in emerging countries, while at the same time relieving the countries of origin of any policy of waste reduction, recycling or recovery. the report aims to tighten controls on waste markets, through better coordination between member states and an obligation to physically inspect installations. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted for this report. i am in favour of adopting measures to strengthen the fight against illegal shipments of waste. the result of the trilogue is satisfactory, both in terms of the requirement for member states to draw up inspection plans and in terms of informing the public about the results of these inspections and the rapid application of this text.
in writing. - in 2010, the member states of the european union produced more than 100 million tonnes of hazardous waste. the legislation in force prohibits shipments of this type of waste to non-oecd countries. the commission is concerned about the proportion of hazardous waste which is being illegally transferred to third countries for cheaper treatment, resulting in the shameful shipment of our hazardous waste, poor quality treatment and even serious environmental pollution. i voted in favour of this report, which supports and complements the european commission's proposal, the aim of which is of course to encourage member states to strengthen and improve controls and to limit these illicit transfers. in particular, we have provided for: harmonization of the methods for the collection and penalisation of infringements, the publication of the results of inspection plans to the general public, and the strengthening of the powers of the competent authorities in this field. cooperation between member states in the fight against illicit shipments of waste will also be promoted by the establishment of a platform for the exchange of information.
in writing. between 2000 and 2009, the production of hazardous waste in the eu increased by almost 30%. the eu waste shipment regulation prohibits the export of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries except for recovery. however, the most recent study available on this subject shows a rate of irregularity of 25% found, which would correspond to a volume of 70 million tonnes of illegal transfers per year. the fraud is the result of the very high cost of treating this type of waste, as well as the low penalties for environmental crime. there are also large disparities between eu member states: some countries carry out almost no inspections (e.g. france had a total of 26 inspections, including 24 physical inspections, while poland had 4 264 inspections, including 3 391 physical inspections). i supported this report, which makes simple and concrete proposals to improve the effectiveness of legislation in this area, including: improving the knowledge base on illicit transfers, or including a minimum number of physical checks in inspection plans and the permanent publication of inspection plans and results.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which manages the procedure for monitoring new psychoactive substances at union level. they are classified according to whether they present a low, moderate or serious risk: the regulation deals with the classification itself, while the directive lays down the criminal provisions applicable to substances presenting serious risks with a permanent market restriction.
in writing. psychoactive substances are substances that affect the state of the central nervous system by altering certain biochemical and physiological processes in the brain. by altering brain function, they can cause changes in perception, sensation, mood, consciousness (altered states of consciousness) or other psychological and behavioral functions. these substances can be diverted from their original use (industrial, medical, etc.). i note that a great deal of attention is paid to psychoactive substances which escape the capitalist market. it is a pity that the same interest is not being shown in the legal, prescribed and over-used psychoactive substances in europe. the consequences for public health are near or worse. in france 1 in 10 people have used medicated psychoactive drugs in the past year. the problem in this context is therefore much wider than the 5% of young europeans who have used the 'drug' at least once in their lives. before tackling illegal consumption it would be good to look at consumption subsidized by social systems for the benefit of pharmaceutical laboratories. i am voting against this hypocritical text which does not dare to attack the main suppliers of psychoactive substances.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens the legislation on the control of psychoactive substances, those which have an effect on the brain and thus addictions (tobacco, alcohol, cannabis, etc.). the text proposes a relevant classification for applying restrictions to these substances according to their risks.
drug trafficking kills countless lives every year in every corner of the globe. in the face of this tragedy, the public authorities must take all necessary measures to reduce this scourge. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which modernises and strengthens the criminal offences and penalties applicable in the field of drug trafficking.
in writing. the directive aims to extend the scope of the 2004 framework decision on psychoactive substances presenting serious risks. any product considered by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) to present serious risks will be permanently banned from sale. the directive requires member states to introduce criminal sanctions within 12 months and to apply them to producers of these new psychoactive substances, with the aim of combating drug trafficking. this fight against trafficking is necessary, and the proposal does not aim to criminalise mere possession. but too much latitude is left to the commission in the definition of 'drugs' via the possibility of adopting delegated acts to amend the list of substances concerned. i therefore vote against.
in writing. i voted for this text. the text creates a new category of drugs, those with a risk considered to be severe for users, and calls on the member states to provide for specific criminalisation for this category. thanks to parliament's action, the commission will not be able to decide on the criminalisation of a substance without the opinion of the european parliament. with this dose of democracy, the report can have my support.
in writing. japan is a strategic partner of the european union, both economically and geopolitically. this long-standing relationship should therefore be strengthened through the negotiation of a strong and comprehensive partnership agreement. i voted for this report because it supports the negotiations under way and gives a balanced overview of the opportunities linked to this project.
in writing. the aim of this recommendation is to establish a strategic partnership between the european union and japan. this partnership covers a variety of areas. in energy matters, the eu expresses its deep concern about fukushima but paradoxically proposes to japan cooperation in the international experimental thermonuclear reactor (iter) project. the nato-japan rapprochement is mentioned favourably in the defence policy. finally, the text proposes to 'strengthen practical cooperation' between the european union and japan in africa within the framework of the policy pursued by the european external action service, whose action i denounce. it should be noted that all this is done in order to "promote the rules of international trade". in parallel with this partnership, the european union and japan are negotiating a free trade agreement. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted for this text. japan and the european union have been in a strategic partnership since 2003. we can go even further in our strategic proximity and this is what this text proposes. i fully support the clauses on the human rights situation in both sets.
in writing. - relations between the european union and japan are developing around negotiations for a strategic partnership agreement and a free trade agreement. the union has always been in favour of strengthening its political and economic relations with third countries. but not at any price ! we need japan's guarantee before we can continue on the path of partnership. even though negotiations are progressing well in some areas, the union is not entirely satisfied with japanese cooperation. for example, the human rights and democracy clause is an essential element in the conclusion of this partnership. these two elements are the founding values of the european union and no country can derogate from them. on this side we have the reluctance of japan. i voted in favour of this report. it is perfectly clear that japan needs guarantees before negotiations can continue. europe must show strength in the face of countries that do not share its values. this is how it will become a true normative power and find its place on the international scene.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it recalls the intangible nature of the fundamental values of the european union, namely freedom of conscience and religion. more than ever, the european union must promote this approach and recall that every man must be free to hold his own beliefs and to exercise his faith fully, provided that it does not jeopardise the freedom of his neighbours.
in writing. the purpose of this resolution is at first sight questionable: why should the union's foreign policy deal with issues of religious and cultural diversity? in a secular perspective, politics should not concern itself with religion and religion should not concern itself with politics. the freedom of the public space and the sovereignty of citizens are compromised whenever this is not the case. it is true that this text affirms principles which derive from secularism: freedom of conscience, separation of state and religion, universalism of democratic principles which should not be considered as western. but he also advocates a role for foreign policy in religious matters that is contrary to secularism. he also called for the european external action service to contribute to interreligious dialogue throughout the world. the report also advocates a dialogue between the three religions of the book as an instrument of international politics. i believe, on the contrary, that politics should not be involved in such interreligious relations to the detriment of the universality of citizens. i therefore vote against this useless report, which has no normative value whatsoever.
in writing. in the face of the many russian pressures on the eu's eastern neighbours, the european parliament wanted to send a clear message. we cannot tolerate violations of international law against our neighbours and partners. i co-signed and voted in favour of this resolution because it reaffirms the importance of respect for the territorial integrity of ukraine. it also recalls that we are strengthening our economic and political cooperation with ukraine and moldova. the european union must be firm towards russia even if it means isolating it on the international stage.
in writing. the ukrainian crisis is intensifying dramatically and the implementation of the agreement reached on thursday 17 april in geneva between the various partners seems unfortunately to be in jeopardy. the eu must be determined to take the appropriate economic and diplomatic sanctions in the face of the unacceptable destabilisation of eastern ukraine, which is being driven by moscow. at the same time, it is imperative to continue the diplomatic dialogue, which is the only way out of the crisis. but this dialogue cannot exclude firmness. the presidential elections will take place at the end of may. european diplomacy and the member states will have to ensure that these meetings take place in good conditions. the international community will have to take stock of and learn from the ukrainian crisis and the union should not be blamed for its inaction once again.
in writing. - i supported the motion for a resolution on the pressure exerted by russia on the eastern partnership countries, and in particular on the attempts to destabilise eastern ukraine. the resolution condemns the escalation of destabilisation in eastern and southern ukraine, reaffirms ukraine's right to territorial integrity and political independence, calls on the european community to tighten sanctions against russia and to step up its support and assistance measures to the ukrainian government. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. the resolution "condemns in the strongest terms the escalation of destabilisation and provocations in eastern and southern ukraine", but clearly only russia is designated as a provocateur. what about the european union and the united states? the resolution calls for the european union to initiate a phase of economic sanctions against russia and, at the same time, calls for the signing of the free trade agreement between the eu and ukraine to be accelerated. i am voting against this resolution with its erroneous analyses and harmful objectives.
in writing. in adopting this resolution, meps call for a de-escalation of the crisis in ukraine, which is under increasing pressure from the russian government. they condemned the abuses committed in the east and south of the country by armed separatist groups, while expressing their deepest concern at the deterioration of the situation and the escalation of violence. parliament called on the russian government to withdraw its troops from the eastern border of ukraine and to enter into urgent dialogue with the ukrainian government. the only way out of the destabilization of ukraine is political and diplomatic. the european union and its member states must speak with a strong and united voice and not hesitate to impose further sanctions against russia if it refuses to engage in dialogue. the european parliament reaffirms its solidarity with the ukrainian people and its support for the country's sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence. it recalled that the future of ukraine could only depend on the choices of its citizens, in the context of a democratic, open and transparent process. finally, it is essential that the european union supports ukraine in its constitutional and economic reforms, which will bring it prosperity and political stability.
in writing. - i co-signed and voted for our resolution condemning the pressure exerted by russia on eastern ukraine as well as on the other eastern partnership countries, notably georgia and moldova. our message is threefold: - we condemn recent russian actions such as the annexation of crimea and the support for violent separatists and armed militias in eastern ukraine, and call them serious violations of existing international law; - we call on the member states and other european institutions to continue their efforts to cooperate and support ukraine so that it can complete its structural reforms and establish a democratic regime that respects minorities; - we encourage the european union and its member states to take more radical sanctions against russia, especially in the energy sector, and call for a genuine embargo on eu-sourced weapons and dual-use technologies.
in writing. i supported, by my vote in plenary, this text which condemns the escalation of destabilisation and provocations in eastern and southern ukraine and reaffirms our support for ukraine's sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence. if we continue to support the principle of including the russian side in all negotiations, we cannot tolerate its double-dealing. the resolution also reiterates that the eu stands ready to observe and facilitate the elections in may next year, if ukraine so requests. but ukraine will have to continue to move forward on the path of its political reform, in particular its constitutional reform, which should be the subject of a broad and thorough debate.
in writing. i voted against this resolution on russia's actions in central and eastern europe, in particular in ukraine. the commission's proposal was extremely unbalanced and biased. while condemning russia's attitude and in particular the use of military force, one cannot deny the outbid of both sides, with ukraine becoming the battleground of geopolitical competition between two imperialisms, with russia on one side and the western bloc bringing together the united states and the european union on the other. while this resolution recalls that the poverty rate in the country is currently close to 25%, or 11 million people, the majority of this parliament persists in not proposing to ukraine as an alternative, under the cover of a 'partnership agreement', only the development of free trade as it now does with all the countries with which it signs international agreements. what the ukrainians need is democracy and the re-founding of their institutions, so that they can decide for themselves their future, not economic tutelage.
in writing. the european union is vietnam's second largest trading partner, and in recent years the country has experienced exceptional economic growth of some 8% per annum. by voting in favour of this text, the european parliament is thus rightly promoting an increase in total exports and imports both for the european union and for vietnam. a deep free trade agreement will thus create many jobs in europe and boost the sme sector, which is particularly sensitive to the trade opportunities offered by the agreement.
in writing. the resolution aims to establish a free trade agreement between the european union and vietnam. the possibilities for social dumping will be immense if one considers that vietnam has not ratified the international labour organization (ilo) conventions on freedom of association, the right to organise and bargain collectively and the abolition of forced labour. we can see the potential for a few multinationals, but the benefits for the european and vietnamese people are less clear. the agreement also provides for the establishment of a mechanism for settling investor-state disputes, which serves only the interests of multinational firms in their fight to break social and environmental standards. i am opposed to the signing of any new free trade agreement and call instead for the introduction of solidarity protectionism. i vote against it.
in writing. - asia has become an essential player in the world economy in a very short time. while european and generally western markets are experiencing a decline in growth, asian countries are recording growth rates of 5 to 6%, sometimes even double-digit growth. we have, through naivety, and sometimes even arrogance, for a long time underestimated the potential of these economies. we are no longer dealing with emerging countries but with strong economies, with real partners. the european union must take this into account when initiating partnership processes with these powers. in 2013, vietnam recorded a growth rate of over 5%. with vietnam, we have entered the sixth round of negotiations for a free trade agreement. the agreement must strike a balance between opening up the market and protecting european companies. i am very glad that i voted in favour of this resolution. it is by encouraging these economic partnerships with asia that we are empowered to work towards a more internationally competitive europe.
in writing. trade negotiations between the european union and vietnam started in 2012, but they are the result of an initial desire to reach a more global agreement: a regional agreement between the european union and the association of southeast asian nations (asean). five rounds of negotiations have been held and the stated aim is to conclude them this year. it should be noted that in 2013, the eu trade balance with vietnam was negative: eu imports from vietnam amounted to eur 10.5 billion and eu exports to vietnam amounted to eur 2.8 billion. this trade and investment agreement will therefore help to rebalance trade volumes. however, this agreement, which respects the wto's special and differential treatment rules, should also contain binding provisions on human rights, labour and the environment. in particular, the textile sector in vietnam is experiencing problems similar to those in bangladesh. these will be taken into account in adapting the provisions of the agreement to the latest developments in this field.
in writing. i supported this motion for a resolution which responds to the european commission's communication on the 'top 10' consultation of smes on eu regulation. this is a consultation to gather the views of smes on eu legislation that affects them. parliament reiterated its support for measures to help smes, and in particular innovative smes. i would remind you that smes employ more than 65% of the private sector workforce in europe but only 25% of them export. i also support the call for a european target of 30% reduction in the cost of administrative and regulatory burdens on smes by 2020.
in writing. the resolution proposes to 'ease' the constraints on small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in order to increase their competitiveness. the aim is to 'reduce the burden imposed by labour legislation' or 'reduce the burden resulting from health and safety legislation'. proposing slavery would speed up the achievement of the resolution's objectives, namely the abolition of the right to work. i vote against it.
author. mr president, as has been said, there is no community in syria today that is not vulnerable, since assad and his regime have decided to put an end to the democratic and legitimate aspirations of his people by any means necessary. all communities, all groups of people are now threatened. it's an unthinkable spiral of violence that seems to have no end. 150,000 dead, it has been said, 6.5 million internally displaced, 2.5 million refugees abroad. an accumulation of horrors also in the war techniques of the assad regime: targeting of civilian facilities hospitals, schools, funeral processions, spontaneous gatherings. the repression is all-out. we have seen the use of chemical weapons, we see today the massive use of tnt-filled barrel attacks and scrap metal to cause the most massive destruction and inflict the most horrific injuries on the people of aleppo. the january report by three former international prosecutors documents the systematic and widespread use of torture as a weapon of war and repression. the assad regime is a killing machine! the savagery of this war threatens today all communities as they are also threatened by the proliferation of groups, militias, military, paramilitary, sectarian, extremist, jihadist, criminal... we lack the words to describe reality. all communities [nbsp]palestinians, arameans, armenians, assyrians, circassians, kurds, turkmen, sunni muslims, alawites, christians and druze[nbsp] will only be protected in a free, democratic syria that respects its diversity and the fundamental rights of people. so what can europe do today? does it have any other choice but to support with all its strength the democratic opposition, despite its weaknesses, which today accepts to negotiate and is now making every effort to maintain basic services...
mr president, when i listened to the speeches by the co-chairs of the epp-s&d-alde group, i thought that there is no one more blind than the one who does not want to see. for, if you will not be offended, ladies and gentlemen, a new wind is blowing in this house - and it is not thanks to you, mr schultz - a wind of freshness, a wind of freedom, a wind of slingshot against a european union that is increasingly inefficient, undemocratic, brutal, disconnected and more contested than ever by the peoples of europe. it is also a wind of slingshots against the political manoeuvres fomented behind the backs of the electorate: the transatlantic treaty, the so-called 'tisa' treaty, the acca yesterday and today, the agreement between the epp, the liberals and the pse which led to your election, mr schultz, and the appointment of mr junker as president of the commission. it will happen in a few days' time, but it is already done when we consider that for weeks you have let the voters believe that their votes would have an influence on the head of parliament or the head of the commission. it's hilarious for us - obviously not for them - because the voters have been fooled once again. i regret that the vote is secret: i would have liked to see you all standing together, with your hands raised, before the voters who sent you to these seats to vote for the most sectarian socialism, the worst of socialism and the worst of ultra-liberalism. the good news is that we are here and we will be here to denounce these revealing collusions without ceasing. we will fight, mr schultz, against the europe of poverty - your europe - the europe of unemployment, of oppression, of austerity, of the denial of the freedoms and sovereignty which you and those in this chamber who elected you represent. believe me, this mandate will not be a long, quiet river for the eurobats!
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, the french delegation of the epp welcomes the decision taken by the european council on 26 june. the council proposed the name of jean-claude juncker to chair the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is a historic decision. it is well known that this was not the first choice of some members of the council. the european council has not, however, given in to what some have called a coup d'état by parliament. parliament will not vote in its favour until two weeks from now to confirm the european council's choice. in fact, the council has given way to the vote of the citizens. this is the great innovation of the lisbon treaty: the european council must now take account of the citizens' vote. this is not a battle between institutions: parliament, in this case, is merely a reflection of the vote of the citizens. the five major european political families, on the right, the centre and the left, have understood this well: each has nominated its candidate and the campaign has been organised everywhere, in the clearest possible terms, behind them. several televised debates took place between them all over europe. for the first time, the european elections were a campaign that covered the whole of europe and not just the 28 member states. some colleagues have criticised the fact that jean-claude juncker is not a member of this parliament, but each of our countries has different parliamentary traditions: the french prime minister is not always a parliamentarian. this afternoon we have mr matteo renzi, the italian prime minister, who is neither a member of parliament nor a senator in his country. who will dare to say that italy is not a great democratic state? every year, dozens of european laws apply to 500 000 000 european citizens, who now have the right to vote for those who make these laws here and for those who propose and apply them. it's called democracy!
mr president, you held the first european council after the elections of 25 may. in its conclusions you acknowledge that they have caused a certain disillusionment among european citizens throughout europe. this is due, first and foremost, to the economic and social situation in which too many of our countries and too many of our citizens find themselves. you propose five objectives to remedy this, as part of a 'strategic agenda' that our political family prepared during a crucial summit in paris. the road map you propose seems to us to contain possible elements of dialogue, but we would ask you to go further: for us, the strategic orientation - as the chairman of our group has indicated - means making better use of all the margins of flexibility to meet the challenges we face. these challenges are first and foremost to propose a new model of economic development for the european union which is not based only on austerity, on the troika, on precarious jobs, but on our first challenge, that of the ecological transition. the european union needs massive public and private investment to do this, and the rules that apply today at eu level do not allow for the reorientation that we need to finance the solutions that will enable us to meet the energy, climate, social and employment challenges that lie ahead of us.
mr president, i did not ask to speak, but since you have given me the floor, i am happy to take it to express my solidarity with the greek people, a country i know from my own experience. i can tell you that the greeks have been extremely brave and have been through a particularly difficult period, and i want to commend their ability to bounce back and above all to remain in the union, to remain interested in europe. i would like to say how important it is that the peoples of europe feel the solidarity of our europe for all of us.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr pittella, you said how much prime minister renzi looked to the future and wanted to break with the past. italy today will have to preside over the adoption of a climate-energy package and for the time being italy is not breaking with the past at all, as it does not advocate a binding target for renewable energy and energy efficiency. is this your vision of the future?
mr president, it is of course good to hear you defend a european vision and ideal and common values. at the present time, you - and we - have a special responsibility: we must now really take europe to new heights in order to make it more efficient, more political and more democratic. i believe that it is ultimately up to the europeans, and no one else, to bring the spirit of reform to recover - as you say - the soul of europe and above all the confidence, which we will recover under certain conditions. first, we must speak the truth. europe must stop being the scapegoat of all national leaders. each country, each member state, must face its own difficulties and its own structural reforms when they are needed. secondly, we must stop - and i say this seriously - continually opposing the question of stability to that of growth: the pact is a pact of stability and growth. let us get out of these ideological debates which only serve to delay the moment when we finally make progress towards making europe more efficient and effective! finally, i ask you, in your roadmap, you should have few commitments - not a christmas tree - but commitments that can be kept, commitments that can be verified. we must make sure that our citizens see, understand and feel, in the weeks and months to come, that there is a change in europe, that there is a spirit of reform in europe and that from now on we will have answers to the questions of growth, employment, our security and migration flows.
mr president, mr prime minister, we have listened to you, but let me, on behalf of the french delegation of the epp, share with you our analysis of certain points to which we attach great importance. as far as growth is concerned, we are convinced that the solution lies at the european level. we firmly believe that, in order to revive our economy, europe must bet on the great european industrial projects such as airbus, copernicus and galileo in order to compete with the indian, brazilian, chinese and american giants. it is also essential to define a clear policy of reindustrialisation based on four or five pillars, with massive investment in innovation and research. as regards the transatlantic treaty, we say 'yes' in principle, but not on any conditions, and we will be vigilant that this agreement is not concluded with discounted standards, particularly in the field of agriculture. europe must assert itself and assert its prerogatives. it must be applied to all free trade agreements and the principle of reciprocity must become the absolute rule. similarly, the recovery of our economy must not be at the expense of budgetary discipline. we cannot make our fellow citizens believe that we can revive our economy while mortgaging their future. that would be lying to them, and this schizophrenia that certain political speeches offer us is a dangerous game. on the migration issue, the french presidency had already shown the way in 2008. however, we have not made any major progress since then. europe is under great pressure to migrate, and italy is of course at the forefront. we must act by joining forces, because once again it is at european level that we can solve our problem by moving towards a system of immigration by choice and not by force. in the end, we want a europe of results, a genuine political europe that has a weight in the world, a europe built around and for the citizens. the task is difficult but exciting, and as in all fields, there are only the battles that are not fought that are sure to be lost in advance.
mr president, thank you for giving me the floor. my point of order is based on rule 118 of the rules of procedure in connection with the hearing of candidates for the executive committee which took place yesterday in committee. in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and in the committee on foreign affairs, a discriminatory measure which i believe is contrary to the rules of procedure has been taken to prevent members who are not registered from speaking. article 118 of the regulation, which deals with that question, refers to annex xvi. annex xvi to the rules of procedure provides that while group coordinators are competent to organise the debate, speaking time is allocated in accordance with rule 162. article 162 (4) repeatedly provides for a time for non-listed speakers. it is therefore a very discriminatory measure and i hope that it does not augur well for the future of this parliament.
mr president, on 25 may the awakening of the peoples of europe began to awaken the old continent from its slumber. many nations, particularly france, which i represent in this house, have chosen to send a very clear message. (various movements) yes, if you don't mind, my fellow countrymen. they chose to send a very clear message: "no to brussels europe. no to the confiscation of democracy. no to the idiocy of recessionary policies. no to the demotion. no to mass organized immigration. no to the dilution of our identities. yes to our nations". the european union has become a crazy, deadly project, from which the people are gradually turning away. but as soon as the ballot boxes are empty, the representatives of a political class of another age, bent on defending their privileges and obsessed with maintaining the system they defend, ready for any compromise - thank you for giving us proof of this today - to defend interests that are not those of our people, no doubt freaked out by the election result - we understand them - have chosen to turn their backs on the democratically launched message in the spring. the conservatives and the socialists - i am not talking about the liberals, they are mercenaries - once again, in their old and odious ways, immediately divided up the posts, denying all the desire for change and integrity expressed in the ballot box. between the epp and the pse, between the ump and the ps - to speak of the french parties - it is the usual sharing of the cake. you have parliament, i have the commission. i'll get you voted in here, you get me voted out there. and do not make us believe that the european people would have chosen jean-claude juncker over martin schulz as head of the commission in the european elections or vice versa. both are complete strangers in the countries of the european union, who represent nothing and embody nothing! (applause) i would like to thank mr juncker, you have come to the head of an institution which patriots in france, but also in many other countries of the european union, deny any legitimacy. you are not the people's choice. you were not elected by the french people in any way, nor by anyone else for that matter. so you have no basis for claiming to direct the lives of our fellow citizens. your immense and illegitimate power, you will get it from treaties imposed on the people despite their vote and from financial and commercial lobbies that make your institution the seat to corrupt it more and more every day. so you are now the archetype of democracy denial. mr juncker, i remember one of your statements in december 1999 in a well-known german newspaper. you said, "we make the decisions. we put them into practice and wait a while to see what happens. if there is no shouting and no revolt, the majority not understanding what has been decided, we will continue on and on until there is no turning back". what a confession! what cynicism! are you replacing mr barroso? martin schulz could have taken your place. it doesn't matter. the same guidelines will guide the commission's harmful action. it's the obsession with the end of the nation. a dangerous federalist utopia that will continue to dominate. it is the promise to the peoples of europe and, in particular, to my own, the great french people, of less democracy, more misery, more inequality and a dilution of our national identity. you will be contributing, after mr barroso, to the misery of the peoples of europe. that's why you were put in this position. you were running a tax haven, now you're the guardian of the europeanist hellholes. the commission is not prepared to accept this. (applause) this is a great promotion! but your federalist utopia, your obsession with the end of nations, we will fight it, sir. we will fight it here and in our respective countries. we shall fight it with all the more energy as we measure the progress we are making in our nations every day. in france and other countries too, patriots are now the majority. they are encouraged by their results in elections, vote after vote, and they are waiting for only one thing: to be able to send your commission and the whole european technostructure into the dustbin of history. in the meantime, we'll vote against you. know that we, the chosen patriots, will be the most scrupulous observers of your evil deeds, which we will expose to the nations. i will continue to warn the french people of the harmful projects being built in brussels. you are being watched by the peoples, mr juncker. you're under surveillance, as are all those who, like you, represent a broken system. you refused to accept the result of the elections, but we will be there with all the patriots of europe to remind you of it forever! (various movements)
in writing. compromise or sovereignty ? "the principle of democracy is compromise". this statement was made on 15 july by mr weber, representative of the epp. it is radically wrong. the real principle of democracy is the sovereignty of the people, as recalled in article 2 of the french constitution of 1958. for there to be sovereignty of the people, and therefore democracy, there must also be a "people", that is to say a nation willing to assume a community of destiny. but this is not the case with the european union, which is not based on the existence of any european people. mr weber would have been better off saying that 'the principle of the european union is compromise'. because in the absence of popular sovereignty, only a system of incessant compromise can temporarily save an artificial union which the european nations will eventually dismiss.
in writing. i support jean-claude juncker's candidacy for president of the commission and welcome the holding of this election today in the european parliament. jean-claude juncker presents an agenda that is in line with the current political, economic and financial situation in europe. the implementation of a €300 billion investment plan to combat unemployment will mark the coming years and will enable the european union to get back on track with growth and employment. these investments will be in broadband, energy and transport infrastructure projects, leading to a reindustrialisation of europe. the future president of the european commission also pledges to fight tax fraud and social dumping, while ensuring that free trade agreements, including the transatlantic partnership, are not concluded at any price.
the agenda calls for the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in ukraine (2014/2717 ((rsp)).
we shall now resume our debate (the president considers that the question put does not correspond to a 'blue card' question).
the question is "blue cardboard". mr mazuronis, is there not a risk that the association agreement proposed between the european union and ukraine could now take advantage of ukraine's latent integration into nato and bring about the inevitable return of a cold war in europe?
the question is "blue cardboard". i would just like to say to elmar brok, when we call svoboda and pravy sektor fascists, that they were supported by the west and the united states, even though they lost the elections. so be careful when you threaten and criticize our friends and those who try to make the truth fascist. this time, as if by chance, the fascists are on the side of what you wrongly call the west.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our already misinformed parliament once supported the war in iraq. our parliament has approved the nato bombing for the sake of respect for minorities and the right to self-determination in kosovo. our parliament is now being subjected to the same disinformation with the complicity of european governments and the action of the united states. the same media manipulation with, moreover, this time a policy of double standards, double standards, double standards, in ukraine. if we follow the logic of previous actions and votes, kiev should be threatened with the worst possible reprisals, but this time our parliament approves of kiev and lets it slaughter its civilian population without any problems. we have to get our shit together ! let us immediately propose a real ceasefire, let us send osce observers and intervention forces, as russia is proposing, and let us support a federal constitution in ukraine with a special status for the eastern regions. in short, let us support peace!
madam president, commissioner füle, i thank you for the very factual reminder of what is still evident in the reality of ukraine today, namely the deliberate russian strategy of fuelling instability in eastern ukraine with a steady flow of supplies to the separatists, the sending of mercenaries, many of whom are russian-speaking ukrainian separatists who are in fact russian citizens. all these facts must be remembered you did well to do so. this deliberate strategy of moscow is obviously also based on the violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. it is also based - and this is very serious and is often forgotten - on russia's international and multilateral commitments signed in 1994 in the budapest memorandum. so obviously, in the light of all these factors, one can still ask why the european union does not finally adopt the policy of firmness that it has been declaring for years and finally adopt this third measure concerning sanctions. however, alongside these elements on the ground, there is still a political and diplomatic process in place. i agree with what my colleague mr preda said earlier. we have legitimate authorities in ukraine, and they are also recognized as legitimate by moscow. this is a big step forward. we have a dialogue with moscow, which exists, particularly on trade measures. you mentioned the existence of these high-level discussions. then there is a diplomatic process with a contact group and a very important role for the osce. the european union must therefore support this political and diplomatic process with all its strength, without forgetting the red line: this diplomatic and political process cannot be carried out at the expense of ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr gahler, you did indeed speak about russian weapons coming into ukraine. i'd like to know what you think about french, german or italian weapons going to russia today. do you think, for example, that france should stop exporting two mistral ships with a heavy transfer of military technology to russia? would it not be more appropriate today, when we need a european defence policy, for these ships to go to reinforce a european defence policy rather than to russia which is organising a civil war on our borders?
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the green group has been denouncing this negotiation from the outset because we believe that it is a matter of societal choices that are being negotiated. these are societal choices about the environment, about health, about social law, about public services, about intellectual property, about agriculture, about food, and today these societal choices are negotiated in total opacity on the basis of their commodification alone. this is a deep problem. we are told today that this would be good for europe. no, you can't! it is clear that what europe needs today is to define its project, to strengthen its project with an industrial policy, with a specificity of sustainability, and what this negotiation offers us is to dilute the european project in a large transatlantic market. so, commissioner, you have explained to us how much the european commission is working on transparency. since yesterday, the consolidated negotiating texts - that is to say, the heart of the negotiation, what is really at stake today - have been placed in reading rooms. the reading rooms for the member states mean going to the american embassy if they want to know what is in these negotiating texts. for meps, this means going to a reading room which is either in the european parliament in brussels or in the european commission. how can we imagine, today, that social choices are reduced to consultations without telephones, without the means to take notes in reading rooms. the transparency you propose, commissioner, is a trick. it is totally contradictory to the democracy that european citizens expect, to the control that european citizens want to exercise over the european institutions. forgive me, commissioner, but the environment group today considers that the way in which the european parliament and the governments are informed of the follow-up of the negotiations - either through the reading rooms - is contrary to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, is contrary to article 218 (10) of that treaty. meps have the right to follow these negotiations and to be fully informed. this is the text on which the european court of justice has already ruled. this negotiation by the european commission is already illegal. and that is why the environmental group supports the european citizens' initiative which is being launched today by dozens of organisations to ask you, the european commission, to put an end to these negotiations and to refuse to adopt the treaty with canada. finally, commissioner, it is good that you continue to promote isds. you can see that some groups which have always supported this negotiation after the european elections are beginning to waver a little and the new president of the commission has at least made the gesture of saying that national courts are enough, that it would be unacceptable to transfer democratic sovereignty from the citizens to the multinationals. that is not what the voters said on 25 may. (the president agreed to answer two 'blue card' questions) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr caspary, i do not think that as the vice-chairman of the committee on international trade, coordinator of the greens/european free alliance group on this subject, i have access to some negotiating documents and i will start to imagine that the process is democratic and transparent. as soon as such important issues as public services, data protection, health and environmental protection are discussed, i believe that citizens - and not just yannick jadot, mep - should be informed, and when i look at the communication papers provided by the european commission on the state of negotiations, i find a line per subject. i do not consider that this gives a transparent and complete picture of the negotiation. i would remind you that article 218 (10) of the treaty says that members must be fully informed. as for the benefits of the treaty, mrs jaakonsaari, i see none. you know that the european parliament has carried out an expertise on the estimate made by the european commission, and that this expertise has clearly indicated that it is virtually impossible to make this assessment and to promise such benefits by 2027. commissioner de gucht himself said that 545 euros per year per european household meant nothing, and the model that was used did not make a single assessment of the gains or losses in terms of employment.
mr president, commissioner, this free trade agreement with the united states continues to raise many questions. i would therefore like to remind you of our commitment to the various red lines and our determination to guarantee our choice of company. our agricultural and food models must be preserved, as must respect for our geographical indications. this agreement must also guarantee real access to us public procurement, including for our smes. and whatever you say about isds, we have to make sure that we protect our investors and that our entire public policy in the social, environmental and health fields cannot be called into question by foreign multinationals. we also call for isds to be made accessible to smes in a simple and inexpensive way, and in a transparent manner, so that it does not become an additional weapon in the hands of multinationals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, we are coming out of a difficult election campaign: europe is not perceived as being close to the citizens. questions about this agreement have been raised again and again in the discussions. as representatives of the european citizens, we therefore want these negotiations to be conducted with firmness and transparency in order to avoid misunderstandings and political exploitation. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr glezos, i do not think we are in an agreement which is another form of nato. i think the united states is a major power, europe is a major trading power and it makes perfect sense that we could have much deeper trading relations. but we are simply vigilant, we have choices of society, we have red lines and we want to enforce them.
mr president, commissioner, public opinion has basically been invited into this debate on ttip. i think it's a good thing. this is a good thing because it should perhaps help to change some bad habits and to get out of this kind of closed door, especially since, contrary to what you have said or failed to say, ratification will not only take place here in the european parliament, it will take place in all the national parliaments of each of the member states. this means that our democracies, not only european but also national, must also be involved in this debate and provide answers to our citizens. of course, not doing so would be extremely negative. what are the europeans waiting for? they expect their national or european governments - for them it is the same - to defend their interests and tell them so. so, basically it's pretty simple. of course, we need transparency. it's stupid that the negotiating mandate isn't public, especially since it's on the internet. of course, we must reassure the europeans about the standards. i think we have exceptional standards, which protect us better than anyone else, better than anywhere else, and we have to keep them. it is a plus for europe and not a minus, and it is also a question of arbitration. we do not need an arbitration process when we have rule of law here in europe and in the united states that works, that allows appeals and that makes it possible to secure investments. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, not to dismiss as such the fact that public opinion has entered into this debate on ttip, but to take their questions into account in order to answer them.
mr president, commissioner, if you have nothing to fear from the reaction of the people to this great transatlantic market, then come out of the secrecy of these negotiations and make the whole content of the discussions public. publish or have published the negotiating mandate. give all the elements under discussion to our parliament, to the national parliaments, to the trade unions, to the consumer associations, to the non-governmental organisations. make it transparent about all the players involved in these bargains. you just made a plea for the international arbitration tribunal project. but it is the elected representatives of the people who make the law, not the lawyers of the multinationals. we therefore reject the idea that business law takes precedence over human and social rights. contrary to what you say, this is not a question of so-called trade policy choices. it is about job security, about what we will eat tomorrow, about our health, about access to education and culture, about biodiversity, about the ways in which we produce. it is about our economic and social rights. in fact, it is a choice of civilization. it is even the future of the european idea itself. this would suffocate it in a single market dominated by multinationals. on all these points, we expect transparency and further explanations from you and, above all, the abandonment of this dangerous project.
mr president, i had prepared a speech, but after listening to you i changed my mind because i thought that after these debates, this parliament is pitiful, you see. you were all here this morning, triumphant, like roosters who think that by singing they're making the sun rise. you were full of your ghost power. "look at us, we've elected the president of the commission". you had come to believe in the illusion of your phantom power and this so-called democratic process, which is only "democratic" in name. and look at you a few hours later, but look at you! listen to yourselves! "we want transparency. we'd like to see some transparency. will we have the right to the documents we are negotiating on or will no one give them to us?" no one will give you them! and all of a sudden you see the commission's contempt. the commissioner is looking at you with a funny look, with a little smile on the corner of his lips, demanding transparency. you will not have transparency, because the contempt for this commission and its anti-democratic process means that this parliament has no power at all and that is much more serious. the european peoples have no power and no knowledge of what is going on behind their backs, which, as you know, is more like a single market than a transatlantic free trade agreement. and this negotiation has been going on for a year. and for a year you have been crying for transparency and you have not got it today, yesterday or probably tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak about the agricultural part of the transatlantic treaty. as the sixth stage of the treaty opens this week, we cannot hide our concern at the direction the negotiations are taking, particularly on the issues of geographical indications. so, the burgundian that i am - in defence of dijon mustard and the magnificent appellations of burgundy wines: vougeot, meursault, chablis, puligny-montrachet - also wants to show solidarity with his french colleagues who want to preserve our camembert or our foie gras with a controlled appellation, but also with his european colleagues who are attached to parma ham, gouda in the netherlands, and brewed beer in belgium. i would like to ask all my colleagues to forgive me for not having time to mention the 28 good products of our continent. the american policy, as we know, denies the europeans the right to protect the land by means of a geographical designation, in the name of a financial logic that reduces quality. we have a duty to our people to protect the art of living of civilization both in france and in europe. it is therefore important that the commission and parliament vigorously oppose the american dictate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i listen to the commission, i sometimes get the impression that everything is going well in the best of all worlds. rest assured, we have a bright future in store for you. the problem, commissioner, is that many elected officials, but also millions of citizens, do not share this view. they have doubts about the expediency of this transatlantic agreement, about its soundness and they also have doubts about the fact that general free trade necessarily promotes growth and employment. you have estimates that are still very uncertain. you promise us the song-and-dance tomorrows of 2027, but the gains and advances you offer us seem very hypothetical. on the other hand, the risks, and this has been emphasized on all benches in this house, the risks are very important: risks to labour law, risks to social standards, risks to environmental standards, risks to health standards and frankly, colleagues, when i hear you - and i am new to this house - i think that if you add up all these risks, all these threats and you want to ask yourself: 'is it worth it?' i am reassured by at least two things that i have heard: firstly, the secrecy of the negotiations is unacceptable to all of you. and that is good, because we have a democratic parliament and, secondly, we cannot accept any longer a mechanism which is contrary to european dispute settlement law. i'm talking about the isds. i know.
mr president, commissioner, i do not know which is more serious. that the rumours guide the debates in this house or that they guide the debates among the people? commissioner, are you respecting the negotiating mandate you have been given? i hope you will provide evidence today that you have not overstepped the negotiating mandate on agriculture, for example, as a persistent rumour tells us. do you have the confidence of the other european commissioners on these issues? i want to remind you that we are the world's leading trading power. so let's keep the credibility. it is through this power that we must impose our limits. what are the actual means, both human and financial, used for this negotiation? your mandate is coming to an end and do not make the mistake of wanting to open up as many subjects as possible to liberalization, otherwise your name will remain associated with the failure of a historic agreement with the united states. the keywords are transparency, firmness and protection of businesses and citizens. they must be anchored in those who are currently negotiating this agreement.
mr president, commissioner, repetition is the best form of education. yes, the transatlantic agreement must be fully transparent and not just a piece of paper. a substantive, democratic and public debate involving citizens, civil society and the social partners is essential. that is why i am asking, together with the socialists, for the full content of the exchanges to be published after each round of negotiations. we also call for strict respect for all the laws and collective preferences which form the basis of our european social model. any agreement must promote the highest standards of the environment, public health, food safety, social rights and fundamental rights; it must also safeguard our public services and cultural diversity; and finally, exclude - but you have been told this many times - the mechanism for settling disputes between investors and states. the quality of the agreement must take precedence over the timetable! i cannot imagine that our geographical indications are not protected or that the quality and excellence of our products, especially agricultural products, are called into question. no chlorinated chicken, no hormone-laced beef, no gmos, no cloning for food.
in writing. the expected gains of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) are significant: €119 billion per year in relation to the european economy, or €545 per european household, the internationalisation of european companies in the us market (in particular smes), job creation in europe and, above all, greater regulatory influence by participating, with the us, in the redefinition of global trade standards, thus countering china. this last point is the central element that justifies support for the ptci. instead of dogmatic opposition, we should adopt a constructive approach and get the united states to drop its technical standards which prevent european companies from accessing its markets. let us therefore continue to negotiate, without renouncing our right to regulate, our body of rules and our specificities, and let us focus in particular on the aerospace, automotive, agri-food sectors (by protecting our indications of origin and our health and quality standards), telecoms and e-commerce, or access to public procurement of sub-federal entities. it is also essential to have an informed and calm public debate on the ptci, refuting falsehoods and based on objective evidence, in order to reassure citizens.
madam president, as everyone knows, the countries of the european union are experiencing a dramatic and suicidal birth rate. this directive, which aims to increase maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks with full pay, could be a necessary but not sufficient means of solving the problem of demographic collapse and the ageing of europe's populations. it is also an element of women's occupational protection. it's an important right. the member states, which are being held back by austerity policies in order to save the single currency, can no longer finance family policies which are subject to unacceptable restrictions. we must therefore try other means, but not those which brussels prefers: not mass immigration, not the great replacement of the peoples of europe. this choice is a scandal. civilization and the survival of our peoples will only be guaranteed if the rights of women are protected and if women themselves are supported in their best role, that of motherhood. the social dimension must be at the heart of european action, mr juncker told us this morning. the abandonment of this directive in this context would be a very bad sign but also proof that this speech is a lie.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite symbolic that one of the first items of this parliament is lithuania's accession to this sick eurozone. it does not matter what our new parliament thinks, because the decision has already been taken. to hell with the majority of lithuanians who were against joining the euro. it is the logic of this ultra-liberal europe which is eager to deprive the nations of their supreme sovereignty, the right to mint money and thus to finance themselves outside the capital markets. the troika's pressure cooker is moving forward, but now more than 150 realist members of parliament, the guardians of the freedom of the peoples, are watching. we must remember the overwhelming record of the euro, which has been expensive for twelve years, the exclusion of mass unemployment, the decline in living standards, social decline, the decline in growth and competitiveness, unsustainable public over-indebtedness, a declining industrial production and a chronic euro-divergence in rates. the whole thing is accompanied by a bill that has been running amok for four years, which has been paid by the citizens to save the euro and the private banking system. these public aids and financial guarantees disconnected from gdp represent 525 billion euros for france alone. we euro-realists know that your economic adjustment variable is unemployment and the devaluation of wages. so, in solidarity with our lithuanian friends, can we in our hearts and in our consciences subject them to the same ineffective austerity and social destruction that was imposed on the greeks? your single currency, the euro, is the crisis and the economic war in europe. peace is the common currency, the euro, coupled with national currencies like all the major economic powers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the turin summit on 11 july, which was to discuss the crucial issue of youth unemployment, has been cancelled. this is the image that is given of this priority. despite the glamorous speeches, despite the good intentions displayed during the campaigns, the reality of youth policies remains the same, that is to say, "back to the drawing board", behind schedule and not at all up to the challenges. what are you waiting for? do you want a generational conflict? do you want all young people to go outside europe to find an eldorado that does not exist at home? young people today are living in a real social buzz. the most striking change occurs at the time of entering the labour market, during this transitional period which is particularly long with the traineeships; the first is that the training courses are neither recognised nor paid and are really an adjustment variable for these young people. youth unemployment is a source of anxiety for young people, but it is also a source of anxiety for families. since 2008, they have been subject to double punishment, even though they are the first victims of the financial crisis and its consequences. the austerity measures introduced by the member states are pushing them further into precariousness. is it normal that 30% of 15-27 year olds live below the poverty line? we should all be standing in this house to say no to that. this is intolerable! youth really shouldn't be this adjustment variable for the economy. so you're all talking about debt. i'm offering you a good debt, one word: invest. invest in these young people, in education, in training, in our common good, because they are the ones who will make the europe of tomorrow. finally, this resolution calls on you, the commission. this new commission must say that young people have rights: the right to housing, the right to decent work, the right to work with fair pay, but let us go further, let us make the youth guarantee a reality and then let us be ambitious with a real unemployment insurance fund. it is high time to reconcile europe, the europe of the citizens, and for this we must fight youth unemployment in a concrete way.
madam president, commissioner, i am sorry to see that this morning the council left its benches empty on such an important matter. and this is only a reflection of what has just happened in the previous mandate with regard to this policy for youth employment. this policy for youth employment has been supported by parliament and the commission. it was not brought by the council. it is the evil we suffer today. because, of course, it is the implementation of this policy by the member states that is lacking today. i would like to return to the substance of this policy. this policy is first of all based on the european social fund and the youth guarantee, which is the backbone of our policy until 2020. the youth employment initiative - and i heard a lot of confusion this morning - is just the tip of the iceberg. the 6 billion euros is the front loading we have obtained so that in 2014 and 2015 there are immediate policies to be put in place by the member states for youth. of course, the heads of state and government were much more inclined to make a communication on the subject than to hold the turin summit, as karima delli said earlier. today, it is they who must be put to work, because we need projects. it also raises questions about policies which are deeply governmental: unqualified outlets, which means failure in training, apprenticeship and alternation, the link between academic training and working life, the renewed training sectors which must also be borne in mind. yes, we need the council to engage. yes, we need forms of contract for young people that are stable contracts. yes, we must also take care of the 25-30 year olds who stay in university because they cannot find a place in the labour market. we must help smes to create jobs, encourage the mobility of young people and regulate taxation of labour. only at this price can we put together effective policies with the heads of state and government by 2015. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i do not think, mr president, that i share your view that the employment of young people is necessarily linked to the closure of frontiers. the employment of young people is necessarily the result of training policies adapted to the evolution of the labour market. the enterprise, the new occupational sectors that are emerging by 2020, all the studies we have done here, show that we need to invest in the evolution of training. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs morin-chartier, do you recognise that we have not only fought to implement the 'youth guarantee' but also to ensure that young people up to the age of 30 can already benefit from it? it can be financed directly by the european social fund and france, under the government of mr manuel valls, is setting a perfect example in its implementation, since we are virtually the first country to have implemented this youth guarantee.
answer is "blue cardboard". mrs berès, this is a bit of a french-french question. if we have fought for all this, we have fought together, you and i, with the commission and in front of the council in many trilogues. i must say that today, as a member of the european parliament, there is one point which struck me very much when the commissioner gave an account of the implementation, and that is the fact that today this youth employment initiative fund - and i do not want to speak again about the youth guarantee here, because it is still a mistake - is being set up in only one third of the european countries that have access to it. i call on the heads of state and government to get their act together.
madam president, commissioner, there will be no european project of the future as long as young people continue to be sacrificed on the altar of european austerity as they are today. the so-called 'youth guarantee' project must therefore be more ambitious and must be transformed so that no young person between the ages of 18 and 30 is unemployed or in precarious circumstances. it must be allocated at least 21 billion, as the international labour office is calling for. that's what money's for. we found a trillion for the banks. this project must include a mechanism for granting autonomy to each young person, enabling him to train and to access his first job. a european plan for the conversion of all precarious jobs into stable jobs should be considered; the establishment of a european trainee status with new rights and employment opportunities; action towards large enterprises to commit to quantified targets for sustainable youth employment creation but beyond that, i think we need a major european investment plan for the future for public services and the ecological transition. the introduction of a minimum wage in each country, as mr juncker promised yesterday; in addition, the erasmus programme must reach the greatest number of people possible by increasing the number of grants and introducing a progression according to family income.
mr president, just now at the beginning of the sitting mr schulz made some unflattering remarks about mrs le pen. she is now one of the main european delegations and i ask that the rules of procedure be respected and that members respect each other, that is to say i ask mr schulz today to make a public apology to mrs le pen. as regards my speech at the european council on 26 and 27 june on the question of youth employment in europe, everyone knows that the entry of young people into the labour market is getting more and more frustrated every year: frustrated by unlimited globalisation which puts both young graduates and young people without qualifications in a situation of unfair competition in the face of the loss of market shares by european companies, and in particular by small and medium-sized enterprises, which are by nature job creators, and frustrated by uncontrolled immigration, the most visible reflection of globalism which is playing down on wage levels. the council's conclusions are revealing in this respect. if the latter claims to emphasize the employment of young people without mentioning real means and real policies, the council document is much more explicit, i quote: 'attracting even more talent'. but our graduates are seeing the job market close in on them and we are even more lax with regard to the right to asylum, which is now totally misused. when will the council and the commission finally understand that globalisation and mass immigration are harmful to employment in general and to young people in particular?
mr president, yesterday i heard the candidate, mr juncker, say that the economy should be at the service of man and not the other way around. it is only a matter of time before we make that finding and it is regrettable that it has taken four years to arrive at that finding, provided it is applied. between 25 and 50% unemployment among young people means that all these people, these young people and their families will turn their backs on europe, and sometimes violently. it's a major failure and it's been going on for four years. but the cause is not so much europe, ladies and gentlemen, as the states that have indulged in "classicism" and have not made the reforms that needed to be made, or others that have become so heavily indebted that they have ruined a generation. the tragedy is so serious that europe must now come to their rescue in three directions: stimulating the economy and circulating credit, speeding up the provision of qualified training and facilitating exchanges with the migrant countries of europe which need labour, and, finally, speeding up the implementation of the youth guarantee and extending its effects to those aged 30.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, youth unemployment is at an unacceptable record high. it particularly affects those with little or no qualifications in southern europe. in the face of this unbearable fact, i welcome matteo renzi's desire to put growth and employment, and particularly youth employment, at the heart of the european agenda. many measures would make it possible to reduce youth unemployment more rapidly, similar to those introduced in france since françois hollande came to power. we are making the young, who are the future of europe, our priority. for this to be a real european priority, the budget must be followed and the general policy of austerity must be stopped. in concrete terms, we continue to call for the youth guarantee to be increased to eur 21 billion and for the measure to be extended to beneficiaries up to the age of 30. the commission and mr juncker must take this issue seriously. the strengthening of vocational training at european level is also crucial. the erasmus+ programme must be extended to apprentices and the leonardo programme must be strengthened. the recognition at european level of the professional experience gained through the traineeships must be speeded up. it is even necessary to go further - mobility being an important factor for the employment of young people - by defining a common framework for vocational training and traineeships. europe cannot leave its young people in the present situation. we need a new direction for europe to act more effectively in favour of youth employment.
in writing. i supported lithuania's entry into the euro area as of 1 january 2015. this member state of the european union fulfils the criteria required to adopt this single currency. lithuania's first request to adopt the euro in 2007 was too early. the country's economy did not meet the required convergence criteria, partly because of too high inflation. lithuania has made efforts to achieve the objectives set. now able to adopt the euro, lithuania will become the 19th member of the euro area on 1 january 2015.
in writing. - i support lithuania's entry into the euro area. lithuania has not been relegated since 2006, following its first unsuccessful bid. the lithuanian debt situation has improved considerably in recent years. lithuania now meets all the technical criteria for joining the euro area on 1 january 2015.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european parliament has supported the resolution on lithuania's accession to the euro area as from 1 january 2015. after a first attempt in 2006, lithuania has made significant efforts to meet the criteria for adopting the euro. this new accession sends an important positive signal to the union as a whole. the euro has been strongly criticised and wrongly blamed for the economic and budgetary difficulties currently facing several eu countries, including france. lithuania's accession thus reminds all the member states that the euro is an opportunity and that it offers guarantees of security, stability and economic prosperity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the langen report on the adoption of the euro by lithuania on 1 january 2015. lithuania fulfils all the conditions for a secure entry into the euro area, such as compatible national legislation, stable prices and well-controlled public finances (public deficit of 2.1% of gdp, whereas france fails to meet the 3% required by the european commission). in addition, joining the euro area will help lithuania to meet the challenge of energy independence.
in writing. - i abstained on lithuania's accession to the euro because i believe that the lithuanian people should be the first to decide on this issue. in order to meet the maastricht economic criteria (limit of 3% of gdp annual deficit and 60% of gdp debt), lithuania has been forced to drastically reduce public expenditure at a time when it was being hit by the fallout from the financial crisis. this lack of flexibility is even more drastic once in the euro, since it is in the name of the rules of the stability pact that the commission can now regularly monitor the budgetary policies of the states and dictate the economic policy to be followed. this loss of sovereignty, in favour of a currency that is certainly more solid but in many respects too rigid, and in a budgetary framework that significantly reduces any investment policy, must be the result of a broad public debate. that is why i abstained, while respecting the decision of the lithuanian people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of lithuania joining the eurozone. this text is a consultative text, since the final decision rests with the member states. lithuania, like all countries that have joined the european union since 2004, is obliged to adopt the euro. of course, very strict criteria have been put in place to avoid weakening the euro zone by a succession of unprepared accessions. in my view, two of these criteria are very important and help to strengthen convergence in the area. the first is to maintain a low inflation rate for the three years before accession. this measure helps to maintain price stability in all countries using the euro. the second is to have a debt below 60% of gdp. the economic crisis that has shaken the continent in recent years was a debt crisis, not a currency crisis. the integration of indebted countries in reasonable proportions therefore makes it possible to strengthen the whole area. finally, i would stress that this is a prepared accession following an initial rejection by the institutions in 2006.
in writing. - i voted for the langen report on lithuania's adoption of the euro on 1 january 2015. the non-legislative report supports lithuania's entry into the euro. it clearly shows that the euro is not a backward currency. despite the economic crisis, which saw the euro swayed by the constant attacks of certain financial markets or speculators, the euro has made a breakthrough. regulation and a protective framework have been added to our currency which remains strong, stable and forward-looking. the euro protects us from external attacks. lithuania has understood this, and in view of its very good performance it will become the 19th member state of the euro area on 1 january 2015.
in writing. - since its application in 2006, lithuania has done a lot of work to meet all the criteria for joining the euro. the lithuanian economy is now characterised by a public debt of less than 60% of gdp and a budget deficit of no more than 3% of gdp. at the same time, lithuania's inflation rate is low and its currency remains stable. i therefore supported this resolution which will allow lithuania to become the 19th member state of the euro area on 1 january 2015.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the inadequacies and dysfunctions of public governance, whether national or european, are causing our citizens to be exasperated. the vote on 25 may showed the full extent of this. it is the duty of every public actor to set an example by avoiding hypocritical and unsustainable practices. in this respect, the european union is jeopardizing its authority by the explosion of 'residues to be settled' (ral) and the alarming increase in arrears. the ral, justified by the time lag between the authorisation of commitments and the realisation of the corresponding expenditure, reached an unprecedented level of eur 222 billion at 31 december 2013. the council must match its promises with its actions. any complacency in this matter is a fatal setback. if we do not have the courage, the gap will widen from year to year and there will come a time when the arrears will pile up. as of 31 december 2013, due invoices amounted to over eur 23 billion, with a rapid acceleration: eur 5 billion at the end of 2010, eur 11 billion at the end of 2011, eur 16 billion at the end of 2012. probably 26 billion by the end of 2014 if no corrective action is taken. this is an undignified situation. at the beginning of this parliamentary term we must correct this drift because it is contrary to the principles which we want the member states to respect in regard to the honesty of their public finances. the commission has just sent us three draft amending budgets which will reduce the backlog of unpaid amounts by 4.7 billion. the unpaid amounts go to humanitarian ngos, to field hospitals in the middle east, to students deprived of erasmus scholarships, to researchers who have run out of funds, to local authorities deprived of resources. the account is not there. in this context, the alternative is simple. either we reduce commitments and make strict arbitrage, giving priority to future investment, competitiveness and employment, or the member states accept an additional contribution to cover the unpaid. although not liquidated, this share of the costs should be entered in the budgets of the member states. it is futile to imagine that waves of fines will be enough to alleviate this debt. i look forward to the new own resources, but i doubt that we are on the eve of their being collected, and in any case this european taxation should be offset by a reduction, in due course, of the burden of compulsory levies levied by the member states. we must act now. the european union is not meant to go into debt in a sneaky way. finally, of course, the post-electoral revision of the multiannual budgetary framework will have to mark the end of this obsolete system. our heads of state and government can no longer make promises on the back of the european budget without agreeing to the corresponding funding. i am thinking of the €6 billion youth employment initiative announced in 2013. stop the hypocrisy. the image of europe in the eyes of our fellow citizens is at stake. let's make sure the fruit lives up to the promise of the flowers.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order to exist, the european union promises to make itself visible, generous, indispensable, and to do so it multiplies programmes and commitment appropriations, forgetting that in the end the bill must be paid. today we are discussing the unprecedented gap - in your own words - between the union's financial commitments and the appropriations actually available to honour them. 21 billion on average out of 140 billion, or about 15% of the 2014 budget. today, this recurrent unforeseen event must unfortunately be dealt with urgently by post-budgetary reviews. this proves once again that, both at the level of france and at the level of the european union, your macroeconomic model is inept and ruinous for the citizens. the inflation of the european budget since the delors i package has continued. in 35 years, the budget has increased 15 times. the europe of brussels is able to give lessons to the states on the proper management of public finances through the european budgetary treaty and the stability pact, while it is itself incapable of making the forecast and is left with a negative cash flow of more than 21 billion, a situation of suspension of payments. this certainly raises the question of the credibility of the european union, which is increasingly trying to steer the budgetary policies of the member states. when you want to teach, you have to be blameless yourself. how sincere are you about your budget? what private sector company would not anticipate this shortage of payments and financial drift? in your logic, we spend first and adjust the revenues later, like so many inconsistent public authorities and states. that's how you make up for it with annual corrective budgets. it is the facility for reckless public spending that has generated 40 years of budget deficits and a €2 trillion debt overhang in france. however, member states do not wish to contribute more to the union budget, as was very clearly shown in the discussion on the multiannual financial framework in june 2013. the next stage in the process is therefore to be envisaged, namely the european tax. commissioner, tell mr juncker that the french patriots have placed the european commission under increased surveillance... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, madam commissioner, mr council representative, you and i are aware of the persistent difficulties facing the community budget since the crisis of 2009. the union's resources are needed more than ever for investment, especially when countries are subject to austerity. the union's budget is shrinking. we deplored this during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and we fight every year against the council's further cuts in the budgetary years. the member states are now prisoners of their own austerity choices. worse, in recent years we have been faced with a "council of bad payers", in a mechanism that borders on the absurd. member states underestimate their rising bills, delay their payments and deny their commitments to the european citizens we represent; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. since 2010, we have been under increasing strain in each budgetary year and today the european commission is proposing a third amending budget of €4.7 billion, of which about €4 billion would be made up of the new mechanism introduced by the cfp, the contingency reserve. the first year of this correction and already an unexpected one! is this not a sign of the lack of sincerity on the part of the member states in the budget negotiations of the union? in parallel, the commission is proposing two more amending budgets, this time to the community's credit. this should ultimately bring the member states' contribution to only around eur 100 million. and yet some are opposed to the application of this new arrangement. this crisis in payments is therefore neither minor nor one-off. it's a symptom of something. the symptom of a sick europe. the symptom of an outdated budgetary system that borders on the absurd. the european union must acquire new resources of its own, no longer dependent on blackmail from the member states. we, the european socialists, for example, have long been in favour of taxing financial transactions, but we must go further. we must make our budget, its expenditure and its revenue, a political instrument for sustainable growth, cohesion and social justice. this crisis is also a symptom of the failure of austerity policy. the same member states which advocate budgetary virtue are increasingly twisting and playing with words in order not to implement the policy they themselves have decided on! yes, of course we need serious budgetary measures! and this seriousness should be that of states which pay their bills, which do not endanger thousands of companies, associations and public authorities in europe. it should not be this unbearable austerity that is destroying the european social model and condemning the member states to half measures in the face of the most important crisis our continent has experienced in 70 years. this crisis of payments is above all a symptom of a europe sick of its ultra-liberalism, of the organized and deliberate disappearance of public power, of its absolute and irrational faith in the market. we're waiting for private investment like a messiah who never comes! but europe needs investment. to support the economy, to combat unemployment effectively, especially among young people, to prepare for the inevitable green growth. and for that, we need a strong, sovereign public authority. the crisis of payments and the elections of 25 may are an imperative. we have five years to change course, and a new methodology... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the payments crisis is a recurring crisis which today calls for a political response before technical issues are tackled. some would like to take advantage of this situation to kill the very idea of a community budget. the fact that a sufficient level of payment appropriations is not fixed sends a negative message to the structural funds and to multiannual planning. that is why i insist that the matter must be settled politically. many of us, during the election campaign, have been teaching about the usefulness of investing in the territories and the need to exclude future investments from the convergence criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the structural funds are designed to do this. the commission will be able to take account of the need to improve the quality of the services provided by the member states. i am elected from a rural and agricultural constituency and the effective use of the erdf and the eafrd, combined with ambitious infrastructure policies, makes it possible to be a double winner. they contribute to immediate activity but also prepare the future of movement and attractiveness for our regions. i understand the point of view of those states whose public finances are exhausted and who are reluctant to add to the pot. that is why i sincerely believe that we must work very quickly on the question of new revenue and revenue, which is actually european - in particular taxation on financial transactions - which will make it possible, tomorrow, to devise a new budget, new revenue, which will actually help to avoid this pitfall. if we continue in this spirit, it will always be the race forward.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the awakening is very late and painful. it took the jihadists' meteoric advance and the establishment of the islamic state after the capture of mosul to measure the political and military disaster in iraq. so, of course, we can constantly remind - as a frenchman, it's easy for me - the grave mistake that was made in 2003 by the us invasion of iraq. this is the historical aspect, but it doesn't really advance the debate today, because a lot has happened since then. since 2011, we have focused, more or less rightly, on the chaos in syria and this has hidden the seriousness of the situation in iraq. it is very simplistic today - as we read or hear too often, including in this house - to see the deterioration of the situation in iraq as the consequence of the civil war in syria. let's not forget that fallujah was taken by these jihadists, already more than six months ago. let's not forget that these jihadists, the islamic army, have their roots deep in iraq, that their leaders are iraqi for the most part. these jihadists thrive on the negligence and sectarianism of the iraqi government which has thrown into the arms of these terrorist groups the sunni tribesmen who had been rallied to the government with great difficulty in 2006-2007. they also thrive on the decomposition of an iraqi army that has been equipped and allegedly trained at great expense for years and whose weapons now fuel terrorist stocks in the region and elsewhere. the europeans must therefore now ask themselves whether they are supporting the iraqi authorities. this support must not be unconditional but linked to a governance which genuinely integrates all components of iraqi society. support must also go to solutions that defend the unity and territorial integrity of iraq, not to its community breakdown. we also have to ask about the more than ambiguous - and i am polite - links between the radical sunni groups and certain state and non-state actors in the gulf, because these groups with whom we have had a lot of leniency are now threats not only to the region but to our own security. finally, let us not forget that the massacre at the jewish museum in brussels on 24 may was carried out by a french jihadist, mehdi nemmouche, who had been in the ranks of the islamic state in iraq and the levant, and i would like to think of the victims of this massacre.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i simply wanted to draw the attention of this house to the paradoxes raised by mrs gomes and mr danjean, who on the one hand lament the consequences of the interventions in iraq which have generated communal conflicts between shiites and sunnis, but forget to recall that they supported a military intervention in libya which produces exactly the same effects, with a complete tribalisation of the country. so you should be consistent in your analysis.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr kelam, indeed, there are not only sunnis and shiites in iraq, there are also christians. the forgotten christians. christians today have the choice of dhimmitude or execution. the christians today who say nothing because they have no lobby to support them in brussels. my question is very simple: do christians still have the right to live in the middle east today?
madam president, just as exactly 40 years ago in indochina, we are experiencing the epicenter of brilliant american policy, this time in the middle east. of course, in speaking of brilliant politics, i am expressing a bitter irony. this policy in the middle and near east has consisted in the methodical and ferocious destruction of the only political force that was able to oppose the most radical and conquering islamism, namely arab nationalism. everyone should remember the lies of the state, like the alleged involvement of iraq in the attacks of september 11th when iraq had no responsibility; like the weapons of mass destruction. mr danjean was right when he said that memory was not enough, but memory is still useful in order not to repeat the same mistakes, i would even say the same crimes. everyone remembers the lies of mr bush, of mr colin powell waving from the un podium a vial that was supposed to contain a deadly chemical weapon and in reality contained only coloured water. everyone remembers the judicial assassination of saddam hussein, who was probably not a democrat in the sense we understand him, but who was certainly the protector of the various communities, including christians who are now in danger of disappearing. the result is the breakup of the country into sunnis, kurds and shiites and the emergence of a force even more radical than al qaeda, which, with a few thousand fighters, was seen to be defeating the brilliant new iraqi army, an army trained by the americans. the paradox of history is that the only way that there is, at least temporarily, to contain this, is to lean on the shiites and, therefore, to talk to the iranians with whom the americans still do not want to talk. it's a doodle policy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is an absolute emergency in iraq: violence, absolute religious rigor, sectarian intolerance. this is the reality we are experiencing in almost 50 percent of iraq after the islamic state took over. we must provide humanitarian and financial support to iraq, but we must also have political courage. in addition, the european union must have a clear and unambiguous diplomatic policy. we must have the political courage to say - and we must put it in our resolution - that we must find a political solution urgently so that a government of national unity without the current prime minister is a necessity to ensure the territorial integrity of the country. it is very important that this should be included in our resolution, otherwise there will be a bloodbath between shiites and sunnis, which we will unfortunately witness.
the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 july 2014 at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 162 (12) of the regulation)
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the escalation of violence between israel and palestine (2014/2723 ((rsp)).
i think we can ask you to sit down now (to the members of the gue/ngl group who stood with a palestinian flag during the whole of mr della vedova's speech).
i didn't feel that the order was disturbed by this demonstration, but now these people are sitting.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have two messages to send this afternoon. first of all, we must call for an immediate ceasefire, because the situation is becoming intolerable, 200 dead in a few days in palestine. this afternoon, four children were killed in a shack on a gaza beach. secondly, we must be clear with israel: the existence of two states - an israeli state and a palestinian state - is not going to work because, after all, the israeli authorities do not want it today. this is the reality and i am proclaiming loudly the words of mahmoud abbas: "there is no state too much, but there is a state missing in the middle east". nothing is true anymore. it is therefore time for europe to take up its responsibilities, for the high authority representing foreign affairs to take up its responsibilities. we are israel's number one trading partner, so let's stop being afraid to act. let's play politics and force israel to negotiate cards on the table. we cannot remain in this situation where israel does not want to discuss the peace process for the recognition of a palestinian state. without this dialogue, we will only regret the end of the ceasefire every two or three years and the continuation of violence and suffering. we cannot be complicit in continuing this cycle of despair. we cannot abandon the two-state solution. we must stop being weak and weaken the few measures we take, such as the non-funding by the european union of israeli projects in the occupied territories. this is the reality. these are our political positions which we must reaffirm today.
madam president, mr delegate of the vice-president/high representative, you have made a balanced and interesting presentation. we must, as you have said, put an end to all violence, but we must never forget that there is an occupying country, the state of israel, armed to the teeth, and an occupied country, with its bare hands, the palestinian people. there is a country that violates international law every day with impunity, that steals the land and houses of another people, that imprisons its children, its activists, its parliamentarians, and now it is challenging the palestinians' right to form the government they want, which is the state of israel. the european union cannot remain silent in the face of the daily crimes that are taking place today in gaza. you must take international initiatives to obtain a ceasefire, an end to the blockade of gaza and an end to the settlement. use every means at your disposal, including the use of article 2 of the association agreement, and suspend all relations until israel comes to its senses and complies with international law. respond to mahmoud abbas' call to place the palestinian people under international protection.
author. madam president, sudan has been under the rule of one of the world's worst dictators since what i would call a military-islamic coup in 1989. secession with south sudan in 2011 didn't fix anything. the problem of borders, for example, was never solved. in recent months, internal conflicts with the refugees and displaced persons have even increased. in the north, the sinister bashir is taking advantage of this, more than ever, to intensify repression and violations of human rights. yes, miriam is indeed a fine example. today, this region of the world remains one of the main playing fields of the great world powers. it is linked to the oil manna and other underground riches, so much so that sudan is the fourth largest source of foreign investment in sub-saharan africa. but it also has to do with the geostrategic situation of this country. so yes, western countries have responsibilities. last january, bashir announced a national dialogue, but in fact it is a national dialogue, it is the all-round repression that is rampant. worse, ngos no longer have access to the territory. the humanitarian situation is dire. we passed a resolution in october 2013 during an unprecedented wave of protests across the country after the removal of fuel subsidies resulted in huge tax hikes. for once bashir has simply listened to the international community, to be more precise the imf. the international community is therefore more effective in economic matters than in human rights. opposition parties, led by the sudan revolutionary front, have been working on a peace plan for several months. they are now widely assembled, armed or unarmed, official or unofficial. they realized their disunity was playing into the hands of their tyrant. they were in our walls yesterday afternoon, calling for help. i would like to thank the members of parliament from almost all the political groups who have sponsored this initiative and who have made it possible for a paragraph of this resolution to support this peace process. we must continue to work on this, including by implementing the human rights clause of the cotonou agreements and by appointing a high representative for human rights. that is what i am asking you to do today, commissioner. it's an emergency.
madam president, we are rightly outraged by the death sentence handed down to mrs meriam yahia ibrahim ishag on the grounds that she had left islam to become a christian. this particular case raises the problem of religious persecution. today, 70 percent of the world's population lives in countries that restrict that freedom. three out of every four victims of religious persecution worldwide are christians. the main cause is radical islamism, as in sudan, nigeria, iraq, yemen, egypt, somalia and pakistan. with the revival of islam, christians in sub-saharan africa are increasingly persecuted, even requiring military interventions such as in mali or central africa. the arab spring is now followed by a christian winter. beyond the justified indignation at the meriam case and the pressure exerted on sudan to prevent this abomination, the european union must recall the total incompatibility of the values which make up our civilization with the totalitarian islamic law which is advancing everywhere, including in europe. finally, it is urgent to call saudi arabia and qatar to account for their continuing support for all the criminal religious movements that are growing and advancing in all corners of the world. (applause) i would like to thank
i am a former journalist and press officer of almost 40 years and i would like to welcome the two speeches that have just taken place and to give a little more personal testimony. the condemnation of journalists in egypt, especially those of al-jazeera, after a trial that is a travesty of justice, is truly unacceptable, cannot be ignored and is not negotiable. because we, the elected representatives of the people, need to guarantee freedom of speech. i would like to proclaim in this place, which is concerned about values and should be even more so around the world, that as amnesty international proclaims, journalism is not a crime. we are not criminals, mr president al-sissi, because we are not systematically part of the ruling family of ideas or because we want to explain something other than propaganda. we must remain vigilant on these issues and, at the end of the day, press freedom is not a journalist's business, it is a citizen's business. i am asking the president of the european parliament, through you, to make an explicit and firm approach to the egyptian president so that this scandal of freedom of thought will cease.
madam president, we are one year, almost to the day, away from what can safely be called a military coup. and a military coup remains what it is, unfortunately we see it today, in terms of repression. it's actually worse than mubarak. a year later, the situation is dramatic. the arrests, the travesty of justice and the resulting sentences, including death, against the muslim brotherhood are numerous, but more broadly against all those who dare to defy the authorities: journalists, human rights defenders, opposition activists. a lot has already been said and i want to speak about a particular case. karam saber, writer, director of an ngo, defending small farmers. mr. saber was convicted of contempt of religion, atheism and incitement to murder, simply because he dared to publish a book on the religious practices of the peasants. he was tried on the basis of questionable testimony, following a process tainted with irregularities. mr. saber, like the others, must be released. the human rights violations in egypt must stop, and the european union has the means to put pressure on that country. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr. deputy, we do not know each other yet, but you will get to know me and know that for me there are never two standards when it comes to human rights. i didn't support the previous government. i just said that the current government is a military government that took power militarily and that the situation is worse, not only than the previous government but also than the mubarak regime. it is therefore a denial of the egyptian revolution and the demands of the egyptian people for democracy and human rights.
mr president, why did we vote against the main and majority resolution? because this resolution would bypass the coup d'état, the establishment of an insurgent government, the vote of the newly elected president in a country in civil war. this resolution seeks to prevent continental unity with russia to follow us imperialism. this is not a peace resolution, it's a propaganda resolution!
in writing. - i voted for the adoption of the resolution on the situation in ukraine. i welcome the fact that the european parliament is once again supporting the new democratic government of ukraine and is supporting the peace plan to guarantee the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. i have, however, opposed amendment no 2 by the greens/efa group, the wording of which does not contribute to the easing of the tensions which we all so much want.
in writing. in view of the worrying instability in ukraine and its climate of violence, i supported this resolution calling for a de-escalation of the conflict. a political solution must be found to this crisis. i support a balanced diplomatic approach in partnership with russia to overcome the crisis and ensure the restoration of peace in ukraine. however, while i welcome the signing of association agreements with the european union by ukraine, georgia and moldova, i would like to reiterate my opposition to the introduction of a visa-free regime and to their prospects of joining the european union. these partner countries are not currently seeking to join the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the escalation of violence in eastern ukraine is unacceptable and i believe that we must not remain passive in the face of these tragic events. president petro poroshenko has my full support for the implementation of the peace plan preserving the sovereignty, territorial integrity and national unity of ukraine. russia must urgently support this plan to ease tensions in ukraine and call for strict compliance with the ceasefire. i welcome the association agreement between the european union and ukraine, which will be a means of launching the political and economic reforms that ukrainians are eagerly awaiting. this agreement will bring about modernization of the country, strengthening of the rule of law and economic growth. finally, i hope that the european union will be open to dialogue with russia and that it will openly address the question of energy security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on ukraine, which supports peace initiatives, condemns the ongoing violence in the east of the country and calls on russia to actively support the cessation of hostilities and the stabilisation of ukraine. i welcome the adoption of this text by a very large majority.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that, through this resolution, the european parliament has stressed the need to find a diplomatic and political solution to the russian-ukrainian crisis as a matter of urgency, while at the same time showing the utmost firmness towards russia by reminding it of its obligations under international law. the european union must be more present and visible in this conflict by encouraging all parties to implement the ceasefire immediately, in order to ensure de-escalation. however, i abstained at the time of the final vote for two reasons. firstly, contrary to amendment no 7, i do not consider that ukraine has a vocation to join the eu. the eu-ukraine association agreement, signed on 27 june 2014, is in my view the most appropriate instrument to bring the partnership with our ukrainian neighbours to life and to strengthen our ties. i also did not want to support paragraph 28 on visa liberalization as it stands. in this case, it would have been very appropriate to recall the foreign affairs council conclusions of 23 june 2014 which called for an impact assessment of the possible effects of such liberalisation on the eu in terms of migration and security.
in writing. this bellicose resolution is aimed at exacerbating the ukrainian crisis with the avowed aim of tying the country to europe and nato, to the detriment of its sovereignty and economic interests. without any balance, this text denounces the action of russian mercenaries but does not condemn the de facto government in kiev, which includes several neo-nazi ministers and uses armed force against its own people. the referendum on the annexation of crimea by russia was denounced as an annexation . but not a word was said to condemn the massacre in odessa, which was carried out by the russian-speaking opposition. the resolution also welcomes the recent signing of the eu-ukraine free trade agreement, which is dangerous for the ukrainian economy, will endanger the country's unity and will cause further aggression against russia. i vote against it.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because the european union cannot stand by and watch the situation in eastern ukraine deteriorate day by day. the text proposes diplomatic avenues which can improve the situation. however, this crisis highlights once again the lack of significant european leadership on the international stage. in 2008, nicolas sarkozy, who was president of the european council, had managed to stop the russian offensive in georgia. when europe is embodied and respected, its voice carries weight. this situation should be a question for the heads of state and government in the coming weeks when they appoint the next european leaders, including the high representative for foreign affairs.
in writing. - i voted in favor of this resolution to call for an immediate end to the violence in ukraine. a political solution to this conflict could have prevented the deaths of more than 200 civilians who were shot down on 17 july 2014, along with their plane, over ukrainian soil.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on ukraine a few hours before the probable destruction by a missile of the malaysian airlines airliner over eastern ukraine. this resolution called for a de-escalation of the situation following the numerous military attacks and the occupation of the territory by pro-russian separatists. political and diplomatic tensions have risen to new heights and those responsible for this tragic act must be brought to justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because, with almost 23% of the unemployed, the under-25s are the main victims of the crisis and of our sluggish growth. this lack of recovery is fuelling a dislike for europe. how can we believe in the european project when it no longer offers any prospects? the youth employment initiative is a start but it only affects one in five regions in my own constituency. yet all these regions suffer from worrying and prolonged unemployment. i come from a border region and i can tell you that the potential for crossborder jobs is still too untapped. we must develop the eures mobility programme, we must promote multilingualism and we must promote dual qualifications. mr president, europe must rely on this new generation.
mr president, we should have voted against. the 'youth employment' dossier is a symbol of the glaring failure of the supranational utopia. 25% of the under-25s in europe are unemployed, 60% in greece, two million young poles have been exiled in 10 years. our institution would have liked the unemployment of young people, poorly or not at all trained, to be a variable for adjusting the profits of unscrupulous employers or faceless shareholders, and that the vital forces of each country be inactivated by uprooting, otherwise it would not have done so. our young people are indeed one of the prime targets of the economic war that is unfolding in europe. forced displacement and impoverishment are proof of this. it is clear that many decisions taken in this house over the decades have played a part in it: structural funds from our taxes, misused; projects that are not fit for purpose and therefore ineffective; sterilizing macroeconomic, monetary and regulatory policies; immigration regulations imposed on nation states, the list goes on. the future of young people in the professions and in society is a matter for national sovereignty.
in writing. this resolution calling for the revival of youth employment is a sign that the european parliament wishes to respect the commitments made during the last european elections. youth unemployment in europe is reaching alarming levels. it is essential that the european union mobilizes itself to invest in education and training. europe needs a new environment for job creation. it seems to me particularly important to continue to promote a framework favourable to smes, which account for the vast majority of jobs in the european union. by encouraging young entrepreneurs to set up smes, jobs and growth will be boosted.
in writing. on thursday morning i voted in favour of recommendations on the fight against youth unemployment in europe. the european union cannot be satisfied with the youth guarantee alone. there is an urgent need for measures to stimulate, among other things, support for smes, entrepreneurship, the fight against academic failure, the mobility of young people and the establishment of a european framework to ensure the quality of traineeships and apprenticeships. i wanted to emphasise the need to better adapt national education systems to the needs of the labour market. it emphasises better recognition of skills and competences acquired outside formal education, through traineeships, volunteering or social work.
in writing. - the european parliament, meeting for the second time since its inauguration, has chosen to send a strong message to the citizens: youth employment is the parliament's priority and the elected representatives will not relent in their efforts to combat the epidemic of unemployment which affects more than five million young people under 25 in europe, 22.5% of them in france. but while i agree with the diagnosis and the priorities, i regret that these words are not followed by action. we must not forget that citizens judge europe by its results and not by its glowing speeches. europe is made and broken above all by the nations. european funding and instruments exist, but in reality it is the member states, through their economic and employment policies, that have the real power to reverse this trend and give hope to an increasingly disoriented youth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on youth employment. it was essential that one of the first texts adopted by parliament dealt with this subject when one in four young people in europe is unemployed. the situation is critical, and we must act without delay. in particular, we must make full use of the youth guarantee and monitor its implementation very closely.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european parliament has supported by a large majority the joint resolution on promoting youth employment. the unemployment rate among young people has reached unprecedented levels. in march 2014, 5.340 million young people under 25 were unemployed in the european union. the european union must respond to this extremely worrying situation. the resolution calls for the implementation of a strategy for the reindustrialisation of europe and a european framework for smes. it calls on the member states to make use of the financial instruments offered to them by the european union, in particular the youth guarantee. it also encourages them to take preventive action against early school leaving, to encourage technical education, apprenticeships and entrepreneurship, to invest in the digital, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors of the future and to promote crossborder employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on youth employment. the aim of this text is to remind european heads of state that the fight against youth unemployment must be a priority. the budget and the measures announced must not remain mere communication effects, to the aid of majorities in difficulty.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on youth employment because it acknowledges that young people are deprived of a future and calls for strong action by the european union to promote youth employment. this joint resolution highlights the intolerable levels of unemployment for young people (23% of young people without jobs), precariousness and impoverishment (30% of 15-29 at risk of poverty or social exclusion). it therefore requires real efforts in education, training, in order to invest in our young people. it is not satisfied with the 6 billion euros allocated by the youth guarantee and as i said in my speech, it is asking for more funds for this programme, which the international labour organisation estimates needs at 21 billion. the text also calls for the establishment of minimum standards for young people and a european framework for traineeships, which i support, while calling for even stronger european rules to secure the path to employment for all young people. the resolution also deals with the economic environment of young people, calling for the necessary stimulation of growth, the reindustrialisation of our territories and a determined fight against inequalities. that is why i supported and co-signed this text.
in writing. this resolution on youth unemployment in europe is honest about the findings but weak about the solutions. in march 2014, there were 5,340,000 young people under 25 in the eu unemployed, representing an unemployment rate of 23%. the resolution recognises that the €6 billion allocated to the youth employment initiative is not enough and calls for the extension of the youth guarantee to 30 years. but for the rest, the solutions proposed belong to the liberal register. as always, the aim is to increase labour mobility within the union and to promote entrepreneurship, and this at a time when the main cause of unemployment among young people and older people is austerity. i vote against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is urgent to concentrate on the fight against youth unemployment, which is increasing month by month. this resolution is a step in the right direction, since it includes an entire section on education and vocational training. when i was minister for apprenticeships and vocational training in france, i put in place important policies to develop the alternance training which is known to give young people a better entry into the labour market. 80% of young people who have completed alternance training find a job within 6 months. the fight against youth unemployment can only be carried out in line with economic realities. that is why i supported the specific passages for smes, which are fundamental sources of employment in europe. the european union has provided a guarantee of 6 billion, the states must commit themselves fully and define precise objectives. i am aware that national policies to combat youth unemployment must be powerful levers, particularly by developing apprenticeships. this is the direction that the european union must develop.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the eu must redouble its efforts to combat youth unemployment, which now stands at 5 million under the age of 25. that is why we are calling for the youth guarantee to be extended to people under 30. i also support our desire to increase the budget for this guarantee and will call for it to be raised to eur 21 billion as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on youth employment in order to bring the european parliament's proposals to the attention of the member states. the european parliament regularly proposes to invest in youth employment but the states do not always follow the recommendations. youth unemployment is a scourge, however, especially in the southern european countries, with greece where one in two young people is unemployed. i supported the proposal to include in this category of unemployed young people aged 16 to 25 also the 25-30 age group, sometimes qualified and graduated and yet unemployed. this category of young people should also benefit from investment and aid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in iraq. i welcome the european parliament's support for the iraqi authorities in the fight against terrorism or the call for an end to all activities of spreading extremist islamist ideologies. the deterioration of security conditions in iraq cannot continue. respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is necessary.
in writing. deeply concerned by the violent insurgency affecting iraq, i voted in favour of a resolution on the recent developments in the country. fighting between iraqi government forces and sunni rebels led by the islamic state (formerly the islamic state in iraq and the levant) has resulted in thousands of deaths and the displacement of several thousand refugees. i strongly condemn the attacks by the terrorist group islamic state and other armed groups that commit acts of violence against the civilian population. calls on the iraqi government and all political leaders to take the necessary measures to ensure the safety and protection of the population, in particular vulnerable minorities such as christians.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on iraq which condemns the violence perpetrated by islamist movements and supports the government's fight against these movements, while stressing the need for a viable political solution to stabilise the country and return its citizens to security. i welcome the adoption of this text by a very large majority.
in writing. - as a co-signatory of the epp group resolution, i welcome the fact that my amendments on the fate of christians have been incorporated into the joint resolution. it was essential to recall the guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief adopted on 24 june 2013 in order to ensure that the eu weighs in to protect the dwindling number of christians in iraq. the most recent example is the barbaric bombing of the syrian catholic cathedral of our lady of perpetual help in baghdad on 31 october 2005, which was claimed by the iraqi branch of al-qaeda. since then, there have been many bloody episodes, and christians are now facing the abuses of the jihadists of the islamic state and are choosing to flee. the eu must advocate a comprehensive approach to the region, involving iran, saudi arabia and the other gulf countries in efforts to defuse the conflict in iraq. in addition, the private financing of jihadist groups active in iraq must be clarified, without directly implicating the governments of the gulf states as is suggested in recital d of the joint resolution.
in writing. this draft resolution on the situation in iraq is typical of the out-of-the-box and timeless proposals produced by the european union in foreign policy. while the report is a fairly accurate assessment of the dire situation in that country, it does not explain the causes. the islamic state in iraq and the levant (isil) was created in 2003 as a direct result of the wars waged against iraq by the united states and its allies. this resolution is a continuation of the policy of subcontracting to the empire pursued by the eu from 2005 to 2013 via its delegation in baghdad. its core mission was to 'strengthen the rule of law and promote a culture of respect for human rights in iraq by conducting training activities for iraqi officials in the police, judiciary and prison administration'. mission accomplished ? the iraqi people deserve better than these hypocritical statements. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. - through this resolution, i voted to denounce the deteriorating security conditions in iraq. the rise of the islamic state (a splinter faction of al-qaeda) in iraq has been accompanied by summary executions, the imposition of sharia law, and the destruction of places of worship and historical sites. the european union had to denounce and condemn these actions as soon as possible. i am outraged at the persecution of the christian community in this region and the displacement of 10,000 of them in qaraqosh. finally, the text underlines and denounces the participation of citizens of the european union in acts of terrorism in this area and our desire to bring these people to justice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution to underline the urgency of the situation in iraq and the potential destabilisation of the iraq-syria region. a genuine territory controlled by the extremists of the islamic state must be prevented.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in iraq, which condemns the terrorist attacks by the islamist group isil, which is currently occupying a large part of iraq. the country was initially unable to defend itself against a terrorist group supported by a part of the iraqi population, both for religious reasons and for regionalist and tribal reasons. this situation has led the united states and europe to mobilize to help stop the advance of terrorists. the creation of an islamic caliphate in iraq is a symbol of the desire of these terrorist groups to dominate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the escalation of violence between israel and palestine. the situation is worrying and is causing tragic loss of life. the resolution calls for an end to the rocket fire and urges the international community, in particular the united nations security council, to find an appropriate response to the current crisis without delay. peace talks must be launched to fulfil the right of israeli and palestinian citizens to live in peace and security.
in writing. in the face of renewed violence between israel and palestine, parliament called on the authorities responsible to agree to an immediate ceasefire between the two parties. this resolution rightly stresses the need for a de-escalation of violence in order to ensure the safety of civilians. too many people have already died since the violence began. we therefore call for international humanitarian law to be respected in this conflict. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - civilian populations cannot be deliberately targeted by attacks. the israeli and palestinian peoples have the right to live in peace and security. we must prevent an escalation of the conflict at all costs. to this end, the international community must engage with key regional actors without delay to ensure a ceasefire and the resumption of peace talks.
in writing. - i wished to be a co-signer of the resolution on the ongoing conflict between israel and palestine, a conflict which is causing further tragic loss of life and unacceptable suffering to civilian populations on both sides, in gaza and in israel. the european union, through its mediation power, must convince both sides to stop the escalation of violence, to restore the ceasefire of november 2012 and to resume direct negotiations as soon as possible with a view to finally reaching a lasting and comprehensive peace agreement based on the coexistence of two states.
in writing. - the joint resolution before us focuses only on the tragic consequences of the bombings, which it attributes to an escalation of tensions for which israelis and palestinians are allegedly responsible. this approach of putting the two sides on the same side legitimizes the unprecedented violence of israel's response in the name of the right to self-defence and ignores its responsibility in this escalation. the continuation of the occupation, the colonization, which is illegal under international law, and the blockade of gaza, which imposes collective punishment on an entire people in violation of all existing conventions. by not mentioning these serious facts at all, by calling for the lifting of the blockade of gaza only in the context of an unlikely general settlement of the conflict, this resolution gives credence to the lies distilled by the israeli authorities and reinforces the feeling of impunity. that is why i voted against this text and supported the text of my group, the european united left/nordic green left, which is much more critical of the policies pursued by israel against the palestinian people, while calling on hamas to cease its fire immediately.
in writing. in the face of a wave of barbaric violence against palestinians by a far-right israeli government, this resolution seeks to put both sides on the same footing. it calls for an end to the israeli military action against gaza and for an end to the firing of rockets at israel from the gaza strip, but it does not condemn israel's policy of collective sanctions against the palestinian people. finally, the question of israeli settlements in palestinian territory is totally avoided. i vote against this unbalanced, hypocritical and unjust resolution. the eu has a very important means of pressure on israel, but none of them is being used to force the israeli government to stop the massacre.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for a swift solution to the conflict between israel and palestine. international mediation must be established to enable israeli and palestinian citizens to live in peace. i would stress that the european union is the main contributor of humanitarian aid to the region and that as such the union must play a much more proactive role in finding a solution.
in writing. - i voted in favor of this resolution to call for an immediate ceasefire between israelis and palestinians. i also supported a stronger involvement of the eu in the resolution of this conflict, but the opposition of the right-wing parties did not allow this point to be adopted. as israel's main trading partner, europe must press for a serious resumption of the peace process between the two sides and for the two-state solution to be established.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the escalation of violence between israel and palestine calling for a ceasefire. the situation is getting worse every day. the rocket fire follows the bombing and vice versa. de-escalation and an immediate end to the violence are necessary to reach a peaceful solution because the images of victims and destruction are unbearable.
in writing. - the kampala compromise resulting from the june 2010 rome statute review conference of the international criminal court has led to a common definition of the crime of aggression, which is a significant step forward. states have agreed to define as a crime of aggression the planning, preparation, launching or execution by a person effectively in a position to control or direct the political or military action of a state of an act of aggression which, by its nature, gravity and extent, constitutes a manifest violation of the charter of the united nations. however, the conditions for the court to exercise jurisdiction over the crime of aggression, in compliance with the prerogatives of the security council, are not fulfilled. paragraph 8 of article 15bis of the kampala compromise is not unanimous in that it limits the role of the security council, which alone is empowered to establish the existence of a crime of aggression under the united nations charter. the consistency and complementarity between the international criminal court and the security council must therefore be sought. that is why i abstained at the time of the final vote.
in writing. the concept of the crime of aggression defines crimes committed by persons or states who have prepared, carried out or promoted an armed conflict aimed at destabilising one or more sovereign states. the definition of the crime of aggression has been laid down in the rome statute since 2010. for the international criminal court to have jurisdiction over this crime, at least 30 states must ratify the kampala amendments. the resolution calls on the member states to ratify and incorporate these provisions into their national legislation. i vote for it.
in writing. - i abstained on this text for reasons of efficiency of international policy. today, only the un security council, of which france is one of the five permanent members, has the authority to recognize the existence of an act of aggression. it is clear that justice is complementary to peace and i fully support the actions of the international criminal court. however, in the name of the stability of international institutions and the effectiveness of their action, the sole competence to characterise the crime of aggression must remain in the hands of the un security council.
in writing. - i voted on the motion for a resolution on the crimes of aggression. these crimes are included in the list of crimes within the jurisdiction of the international criminal court. but despite the lengthy process of negotiating the statute of the court adopted in rome in 1998, the states have not been able to agree on its definition. in particular, the modalities for the exercise of the international criminal court's jurisdiction in the implementation of prosecutions are not defined. i rejected the inclusion in this resolution of a reference to the kampala amendments which could lead to a choice between respect for the united nations charter and respect for the rome statute. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the united states is not a member of the security council, but that it is not prepared to accept the fact that the united states is a member of the security council. such a situation would be likely to undermine the efficiency and credibility of the court itself.
madam president, i would simply like to emphasize that this agricultural policy, which seems to me to be ill-prepared and not in keeping with the purpose pursued, is part of the long-term plan. it should be understood that russia has recently prepared agreements with brazil, argentina and latin american countries to, once and for all, no longer depend on these productions... (the president interrupts the speaker) has the commission taken into account that this aid is not a one-off but will probably be permanent? do the officials who made these decisions here agree that in a year's time the farmers will know that their decisions are the basis for a lasting situation?
madam president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating you on your reactions to the russian embargo, which is likely to have a negative impact on european agriculture. unfortunately, once again, fisheries are the great forgotten food policy of the union. however, the russian embargo will affect european fishermen to an estimated value of €144 million. your colleague, commissioner damanaki, has informed us that certain eafrd budget lines, in particular the funds for storage, could be used by fishermen who are victims of the embargo. but unlike agriculture, no additional resources are currently allocated to fisheries. this failure would lead to the sacrifice of essential projects such as selectivity to avoid discards or direct sales, which should have been financed from these same amounts. how can we justify unequal treatment of two sectors which are comparable? can we not have a coordinated position to deal with these two food sectors in a fair way? i tabled a series of amendments with my group calling for an exceptional increase in the 2015 budget for fisheries, as is the case for agriculture. i hope that we can count on the support of the commission. to be strong on the outside, we must be strong on the inside.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has entered into a tug-of-war with russia, a tug-of-war with disastrous consequences for our farmers: these are the collateral effects of a diplomatic crisis. without questioning the action being taken, i feel it is our duty to support them. although the european commission has responded quickly by making available a budget of €125 million for fruit and vegetables, this is clearly not enough. the envelope has already been overrun. i would also like to offer some ideas. the price of the products is far too low and does not cover the cost of production in many countries. this is the case in france. this measure is not applicable to certain member states. what does the european commission intend to do about this? as regards promotion measures, it is not acceptable that they should be co-financed by the producers. the commission has not been able to put forward a proposal to this effect. especially since i remind you that this is not a market crisis, nor a health crisis but a diplomatic crisis. is the european commission also considering the possibility of shifting de minimis aid? these ceilings have been reached in recent years by many crises experienced by companies. some spoke of helping the poor, of distributing fruits and vegetables at the playground... commissioner, your proposal to merge the two schemes for milk and fruit and vegetables is just a bad idea. i'm ready to talk to you about it. finally, the measures proposed today are emergency measures for the direct needs of the market, but they are only the tip of the iceberg. producers will need long-term action, particularly to win back lost markets. is there any thought to that effect?
madam president, commissioner, i agree with many of my colleagues that it was necessary to act quickly, in a concerted and united manner at european level, and i would like to thank you for that. the future of a number of farms, especially small ones, was at stake. we have been able to do this, i would remind you, thanks to the market management and supporting instruments which we have strongly advocated for the cap to continue to be used. but the financial aid available must be given to farmers who are most affected by this crisis. its management must be as efficient and transparent as possible. a suspension of part of this support was decided, i remind you, last week because of certain abuses. this situation should be remedied as soon as possible by making the support provided more targeted and as effective as possible. finally, i would like to say that there will probably be other products for which european support will be needed. i am thinking in particular of the meat on foot and beef on foot, which were exported to russia and which are now being discontinued. i also think that we will have to work on the question of humanitarian aid, as many colleagues have mentioned. this will require additional funding. and i am thinking of the introduction of a financial transaction tax, which is becoming an emergency.
madam president, i thank you for allowing me to speak despite my delay. it is clear, madam president, commissioner, that we have shot ourselves in the foot and fallen into the trap of sanctions. the european union is only proposing €125 million for the vegetable sector, whereas the russian embargo affects all agricultural production. your actions are catastrophic here in france. here are some figures: - 12% for fruit, - 13% for vegetables, - 20% for apples, pears, melons and peaches. the tonne of milk powder went from 2900 to 2300 euros. the ton of butter costs between eur 3 500 and eur 3 000. i cannot forget our dutch friends who, with their 250 000 tonnes of edam, also export to russia. finally, pig farmers in our country, according to the assessments of the regional pig committee of brittany, have already lost 15 euros per pig, or 70 000 euros for an average farmer. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european commission and council, it is high time that this irresponsible policy of the european union was brought to an end. france is russia's third largest supplier of agri-food products, with an annual value of €1 billion. i have only one piece of advice to give you tonight: change your politics! think of our farmers, lift the embargo!
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, what you call the neighbourhood with the countries of the southern mediterranean, some of which are seeking justice and freedom, i believe calls for a new type of cooperation with them: cooperation and not competition. it is therefore necessary to change our approach to these countries, which must not be new areas of economic expansion, nor an industrial backyard for exploiting cheap labour, nor a buffer zone for migration, of which they are the guardians for us. on the contrary, their economic and food sovereignty must be respected, and a major plan to help finance sustainable investment, including social and environmental clauses and jointly mobilising cheap credit for co-development actions, should be discussed and drawn up. cooperation policies must be accompanied by significant progress in respect for human rights and democracy and not by aid being conditional on the criteria of the international monetary fund. similarly, the cooperation agreement with the state of israel should be suspended after the massacres in gaza and the prosecution ....
mr president, cooperation between the european union and the mediterranean states, yes! the establishment of a free trade area, that is to say the gradual elimination of economic frontiers first, then human frontiers, is not! the european union's investment in the countries of the south in the interests of balanced development, in the desire to ease the migratory spiral and, in the long run, to reverse the flow of migrants from the north to the south, is an investment in our future. to defend our peasants, our workers, our industries but also our cultures and our civilization, the development of the south is a vital necessity. but not at any price! we must first ensure our security by making this aid conditional on political stability, respect for minorities and the fight against uncontrolled immigration. finally, we must ensure that every euro spent there is spent with local businesses and labour or, failing that, with european businesses, which will avoid indirectly financing the chinese or us economies.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr tarabella, when you support the arab revolutions, do you not think that the role and domination of women has been seriously challenged unfortunately in the countries you mention?
in writing. "as with any response to the popular aspirations expressed during what has come to be known as the arab spring, the eu responds with trade and free trade. the association agreements are becoming pure free trade agreements, even if they are supplemented by so-called mobility agreements, where the only certainty is that the southern states are being made more than ever the gendarmes of europe with the consequences that we know for the rights of migrants. and in whose interests: the interests of europeans and especially of multinationals, to the detriment of the interests of the people. in morocco, civil society is fighting because it fears that exports of european products are being promoted at the expense of moroccans' economic, social and environmental rights. in tunisia, the eu is trying to force its way ahead of the next election deadline with the same fears as in morocco, especially for agricultural products. and let us not talk about israel, where we turn a blind eye to violations of international law in defiance of the provisions of the association agreement. the eu's ultra-liberal drift continues on both sides of the mediterranean while other policies are possible, promoting cooperation, sustainable development and the free movement of workers".
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in bolivia we are faced with the reality of a developing country. we support bolivia by granting it preferential access to the eu market under gsp+ commitments. however, the new law of july 2014 in bolivia allows children aged 10 and above to work in a safe environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization. among the commitments of bolivia, it is clearly stated that the convention on the minimum age must be ratified, if not respected. so my question is whether bolivia is still living up to its commitments. the values we stand for privilege access to education over child labor. in europe, we have student unions. in bolivia, they have federations of child laborers. this is a reality, commissioner, and it cannot be denied, even if it is disturbing. there is, of course, a technical and legal decision to be made. does bolivia live up to its commitments under the agreements? but there is also a political response. to exclude bolivia from the gsp+ is to condemn it even more. but allowing our partner countries to deviate from the rules is not acceptable. it is also intolerable to imagine that products produced by the labour of ten-year-olds will soon be seen in our territory. commissioner, the choice is... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, even as you are preparing to adopt the partnership agreement with ukraine, i want to tell you that, in the face of history, you will not be able to say that you did not know. you cannot say that you did not know that for 25 years the united states has been trying to integrate ukraine and georgia into nato in order to cut off those countries from russia. you cannot say that you did not know that ukraine is a country torn between east and west and that from the beginning it was necessary to work with moscow to make ukraine an interface between the union and russia, to make ukraine federal and neutral. who can believe that the european union is defending peace when we know that its representative in moscow is lithuanian and that in kiev he is polish? when russia turns to china and washington has alienated us from a natural strategic and energy partner, if this policy of tension and sanctions has not led to the madness of war before, i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, will you then finally ask yourselves what is in the real interest of the peoples of europe?
member of the commission. - mr president, many questions have been put about the agreement, or the proposal for an agreement, reached last friday in brussels between ukraine, the european union and russia. what does it really mean? it means, on the one hand, that we are going to prolong the autonomous trade measures vis-à-vis ukraine. so they will continue to be able to export onto our european markets as if the agreement were already in force. let me point out that, since june when we decided on the autonomous trade measures for the first time, exports by ukraine to the european union have increased by 15% in just a couple of months. so this is a very effective tool. it is up to the council of ministers to change the decision on provisional application, and with respect to the autonomous trade measures it depends on codecision by the european parliament and the council whether or not these autonomous measures are prolonged. this is a decision to be taken by you and by the council of ministers in a very democratic process. with regard to provisional application, which is the other side of the mirror, the question of whether we have free access to the ukrainian market, and whether we can continue with sanitary and phytosanitary standards (sps) and with the technical barriers to trade, is in the hands of the council of ministers. there is currently a decision on provisional application, and the council will have to change that. we are going to make a proposal to them to do so for definite periods of time – specifically until the end of next year. why have we been working to make the agreement that was reached on friday? some have said it is non-effective, a sign of weakness or a mistake. the reason we have been doing it, ms harms, and the result of the long process which started in july, is to make ratification possible. without this agreement on friday, there would no ratification today. and what are the results of that ratification? there are at least three. first, it gives new economic opportunities to ukraine to export into the european union and to have economic growth. if we really want ukraine to become a fully-fledged democracy and part of the european house, what you will need there is economic opportunity, growth and jobs. and that, by the way, is the reason why these people protested in the maidan: because they want freedom and they want economic growth. when the soviet union split apart, the per capita income in ukraine was a little bit higher than it was in poland, and now the per capita income in poland is four times higher than that of ukraine. that has been the result of poland becoming a member of the european union. secondly, ratification establishes a bond between ukraine and the european union which is very important because that is what the people really want. they want to establish this bond with the european union, and once the ratification has taken place it is no longer merely a matter of words. it has become a legal relationship: it has become a treaty. of course, the member states will have to ratify it. six have done so already and it will be very wise for the other member states to do this as soon as possible. ratification establishes a bond between ukraine and the european union which will be very difficult, if not impossible, to undo because it establishes a treaty. at the moment, what russia is trying to do in ukraine is to create a new frozen conflict in the east of the country. that is what they are trying to do – just as happened in moldova with transnistria, just as happened in georgia with abkhazia and south ossetia, and just as happened in nagorno-karabakh. at that moment in time we, as the european union, are saying ‘ok, we will make a treaty with you, we will make this bond with you.’ this is a legal bond and we are not going to undo it, but rather we will make further discussion possible and will ensure that the elections on 15 october take place under acceptable conditions. we are ready to make a sacrifice – yes, an economic sacrifice – and delay the provisional application of the agreement for a very limited period of time. that is what this is about and i am sure that is what you are going to vote for in half an hour’s time.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i hope that in just over half an hour this parliament will vote, by a large majority, in favour of this association agreement. it is an extremely important signal of solidarity and support in an extremely difficult time for ukrainians. the agreement includes an economic component. it brings ukraine closer to the acquis communautaire, under democratic conditions, which is very important. i hope a large majority will be able to come out. of course, it will not include all groups. the far right continues to prefer putin's corrupt dictatorship to democracy and the right of peoples to self-determination. beyond that, we are in a somewhat complicated situation because we learned last friday that the conditions for implementing the agreement had changed. ten days ago the committee on international trade met in the presence of the european commission and we were not at all aware that there were negotiations on possible changes in the conditions for implementation, particularly of the trade agreement. and because you are being called in this morning, half an hour before the vote, we are beginning to understand the reasons which may have led to changes in the implementation and perhaps the content of the agreement. did any members of the european council speak? under what mandate was such a deferral negotiated? is it russia that intervened and, by its military occupation of part of ukraine, imposed this postponement? we don't know for sure, but we're still gonna vote. there is a real problem, commissioner. the fact that there is a staging of the vote in this parliament and the vote in the ukrainian parliament at the same time is all very well. but this european parliament must be able to give a serious assessment of this agreement. but as it stands, we have not been able to do so. you're kind of ruining the party for this deal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted against ratifying these agreements. ukraine is currently torn between east and west, and this is tragically evident every day. let us not forget that this crisis is directly linked to the signing or not of the agreements we are discussing today, since it began with the overthrow of president yanukovych, who was then overthrown by a coup d'état. why then throw oil on the fire by signing this agreement instead of trying to appease the situation between the two sides. the association agreement between the european union and ukraine is hereby approved on behalf of the union. right now, you're getting the exact opposite result. how can you implement a free trade agreement with a country in which a civil war rages over about a third of its territory? finally, it is quite worrying, damaging and alarming that no impact study has been carried out, since this agreement involves many risks, both for european workers, and therefore french workers, and of course for ukrainian workers.
mr president, we voted against this agreement because an association agreement at the moment is preparing for war. it is to deepen the division between east and west, whereas we should be working for unity and peace. it is also respecting the ukrainian people by voting against. in the face of its false economic hopes - gas and electricity already more expensive, water which has risen by 50%, job destruction and growing unemployment - western aid will never be enough to rebuild a country which is divided and destroyed and our parliament is lying to ukraine by giving it aid commensurate with its economic difficulties. ukraine will be further impoverished and the compensation from the west will never live up to expectations. the ukrainian people will soon feel betrayed by the west. finally, democracy in ukraine is more fragile than ever in the hands of corrupt oligarchs, clearly fascist elements that sow hatred and racism. parliament is being manipulated by nato.
in writing. the eu/euratom-ukraine association agreement, which is to replace the previous partnership and cooperation agreement and covers more than 30 sectors ranging from the economy to transport, and is underpinned by general principles such as respect for democratic principles, is primarily aimed at creating a large free trade area which will further increase the dumping that the eu is already suffering from. this will be a first step towards ukraine's future and possible membership of the european union even though the union's budget is constrained. finally, given the humanitarian, military and political crisis currently affecting eastern ukraine, any such initiative towards an agreement with the eu can only increase tensions and conflicts, including with russia. that is why i opposed the agreement.
in writing. - i voted for the ratification of the eu-ukraine deep free trade agreement, which echoes the citizens' commitment to democratic change for which men and women have fought and, in some cases, lost their lives. we send a strong signal to ukraine in its efforts to achieve political and economic reform, but also a message to russia to respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine. the agreement will bring ukraine closer to the eu through new channels of political dialogue and a framework for cooperation in areas such as energy, transport and education. i hope that this agreement will help to remedy the widespread corruption which is gangrenous at all levels of decision-making and which hinders the improvement of the living conditions of the population. another important point of the agreement is the obligation for ukraine to undertake reforms and respect democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. - on tuesday 16 september, the ukrainian parliament made the decisive choice to ratify, unanimously, the association agreement with the european union. at the same time, the european parliament also ratified the agreement, thus bringing the authorities in kiev closer together. while this approach is described by some as historic, it should not make us lose sight of the issues involved in this rapprochement. while this is a formal recognition and support for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, it does not in any way resolve the conflict, which has claimed more than 2 700 lives since it began. what can we say about this agreement, which has been emptied of its substantive core, namely the trade part, the application of which is postponed until the end of 2015? there is certainly a political signal. but i fear that these few lines are only a screen to hide the appalling impotence of europe which, because of the antagonistic interests which reside within it, is unable to speak as an equal with its interlocutor and yet partner russia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eu-ukraine association agreement. the agreement is the first step towards deepening political and economic relations between the european union and ukraine and the first of its kind, in terms of its ambition. given the events on the maidan and the current context, the validation of this agreement was an obvious and an act of support for ukraine. the agreement was approved by a very large majority. i welcome this historic vote which took place in duplex with the ukrainian parliament.
in writing. - i welcome the joint ratification by the european and ukrainian parliaments of the association agreement between the european union and ukraine, despite the european union's decision to postpone the entry into force of its economic component. the agreement, the prospect of which was at the origin of the maidan events, is in favour of closer political relations and trade between the european union and ukraine. this is a historic vote, which is a reminder that the european parliament has always defended the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine.
in writing. - i voted against the free trade agreement with ukraine because a decision of such a magnitude cannot be taken in haste, by an illegitimate assembly, or under external pressure. the decision to submit this free trade agreement to the ukrainians was made without really explaining the content of this agreement to its people, without consultations, without studies on its impact. it was endorsed on the ukrainian side by the same assembly that passed the emergency laws against the maidan protesters, while parliamentary elections are scheduled for october 26. however, there was no urgency for the ukrainian economy to sign the agreement, as ukrainian products already benefit from present tariffs and the agreement will only be applied from the end of 2015. by refusing to wait for the new parliamentary elections, the ukrainian government has placed itself above the ukrainian people's sovereignty, which has been so dearly paid for on the maidan. by this eagerness, he got involved in the struggles of influence between his neighbors that caused so much suffering to the ukrainian nation. ukraine must be able to choose its own path, in peaceful conditions, with respect for the sovereignty of its people and with neighbours who respect theirs.
in writing. - parliament is hereby asked to give its consent to the council's ratification of the eu-ukraine association agreement. the eu extends its empire over its neighbours by including them in its free trade area. combined with economic sanctions against russia, ukraine's main economic partner, this european annexation of the ukrainian market will worsen the collapse of the ukrainian economy, especially in the industrial east of the country. the first part of this agreement (political part) was signed in march 2014 at the beginning of the ukrainian crisis and the second (economic part) in june, which contributed to further destabilizing the region. this aggressive free trade is a factor in war. moreover, the emergency procedure authoritatively imposed by martin schultz prevents any proper examination of the terms of this agreement. linking the ukrainian state to the fate of the eu and nato goes against its entire history and against its interests and the sovereignty of its people. i vote against it.
in writing. - this agreement is a major milestone in the history of the european union's external relations. i wanted to support him. the ratification was a unique and momentous event: the european parliament and the ukrainian parliament voted simultaneously and by video link. the agreement demonstrates a strong commitment and shows europe's willingness to assert itself on international issues. the text will make it possible to contribute to the development of ukraine through economic cooperation. finally, this agreement creates the conditions for common prosperity.
in writing. the prospect of signing an eu-ukraine association agreement and its rejection by former president yanukovych, combined with russia's proposal to sign an agreement to create the eurasian union, triggered protests in kiev resulting in a civil war and an extreme tightening of relations between the west and russia. these joint proposals by the european union and russia to ukraine have led to the exacerbation of nationalist conflicts and the division of ukraine into several warring camps. the signing of this agreement risks plunging ukraine a little further into division. the european union's obligation to present and sign this association agreement as soon as possible is the result of a catastrophic management of its own diplomatic and trade relations with both ukraine and russia. by voting against, i wanted to express my opposition to this european interference and bidding that has only resulted in the division of a country into two or three parts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the association agreement between ukraine and the european union, because in the light of events, the european union must demonstrate that it is a solid ally of ukraine. the european union and ukraine need to work together effectively as a matter of urgency, especially as the legal situation was a dead end. the agreement thus sets out a long-term course of action to curb russia's expansionist policy and to assert ukraine's sovereignty. only if russia respects this fact will it be possible to restore new cordial relations.
in writing. - i supported the report by my colleague, mr jacek saryusz-wolski, which led to the approval by the european parliament of the association agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and ukraine, on the other. given the political and economic context of ukraine, the approval of the agreement by the european parliament is a strong signal from the european union that it is continuing to fulfil its neighbourhood policy and spread its values. the agreement was approved simultaneously and by videoconference between the ukrainian parliament and the european parliament. the agreement will strengthen economic and political links between the european union and ukraine.
in writing. - the european parliament has adopted the eu-ukraine association agreement as a matter of urgency. this agreement is based solely on free trade and will weigh heavily on the already struggling ukrainian economy. the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, has made this a direct communication operation with mr poroshenko and the ukrainian parliament, making the ukrainian president a champion of pacifism and the fight against corruption, forgetting in passing that two representatives of the extreme right are in his government. it's like we're back in the cold war, with the bad russians on one side and the good ukrainians on the other. the situation in ukraine is dramatic. no one should add fuel to the fire. it is a very sad sight to see in the european parliament. the gue/ngl parliamentarians voted against this agreement and continue to call for a genuine political dialogue that puts the interests of the people first and not the will to dominate one another.
in writing. any attempt at association in the current situation can only increase tensions and this part of the agreement is already distorted in its basis since 3 european countries will not participate and will not be subject to it. these are the united kingdom, ireland and denmark. the other countries, including france, will have to respect this provision, which is in fact aimed at easing visa issuance and gradually and in a timely manner implementing a visa-free regime (in particular with regard to the mobility of workers), i.e. increasing the immigration of ukrainians to the member states of the european union. that is why i also opposed this provision of the agreement.
in writing. on tuesday 16 september, the european parliament approved the ratification of the association agreement, which includes a comprehensive and in-depth free trade agreement, between the european union and ukraine. i welcome the vote on this agreement, which is the first agreement based on a political association between europe and an eastern partnership country. it is unprecedented in its scope in terms of the number of areas covered and in its depth in terms of the precision of commitments and deadlines. its key components include a focus on governance and sectoral cooperation in areas such as energy, transport and environmental protection, industrial cooperation, social development and social protection.
in writing. - on tuesday 16 september, the ukrainian parliament made the decisive choice to ratify, unanimously, the association agreement with the european union. at the same time, the european parliament also ratified the agreement, thus bringing the authorities in kiev closer together. while the trade part of the agreement is completely removed, its chapter on justice, immigration and security has been acted upon by negotiators who were certainly in a hurry to show goodwill to the ukrainian side despite the crisis of mistrust in europe. the article on the treatment of workers provides that ukrainian nationals legally working in the eu and europeans employed in ukraine should not be discriminated against in relation to nationals of the host country with regard to pay and working conditions. while i consider this provision to be reasonable, i would point out that any measure on visa liberalisation can only be considered as a hypothesis and that the examination of the conditions and modalities still needs to be further developed in the light of the humanitarian emergency but also of the capabilities, needs and security imperatives of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eu-ukraine association agreement on the treatment of nationals legally employed in ukraine and the eu. the agreement provides that ukrainian nationals legally employed in the eu and european nationals legally employed in ukraine shall not be subject to discrimination on grounds of nationality as regards working conditions, remuneration and dismissal procedures. the agreement was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - parliament is hereby asked to approve the aspects concerning the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed in the territory of the other party included in the eu-ukraine association agreement. i am of course committed to equal treatment of workers. but i am firmly opposed to this agreement which annexes ukraine to the liberal european yoke. i vote against it.
in writing. - these provisions concern a particular aspect of the negotiations concluded with ukraine: the treatment of nationals. this article does not create any new rights for ukrainians in europe or for europeans in ukraine. it provides that nationals legally employed under each national legislation shall not be discriminated against on the grounds of their nationality. so i supported this point, which is part of the overall agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the association agreement concerning the treatment of workers in relations between the european union and ukraine because it is the essential element for the proper implementation of the association agreement as a whole. i believe that the mobility of workers is a prerequisite for any association agreement, and that a clear implementation structure must be defined in order to establish optimal trade relations and to avoid any abuse.
president of the committee on budgets. - madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i would like to stress that the elections of 25 may delivered their verdict with severity and it is hardly necessary to recall how strongly euroscepticism has been. the criticism has culminated in sluggish growth and high unemployment, reaching desperate levels among young people. while populism is raging across the continent, the imf and oecd are concerned about the stagnation of the eurozone. the real question is whether the eu budget can remedy this and restore confidence. to answer this question, we need to clarify three preconditions: first, to prepare the revision of the multiannual financial framework adopted at the end of 2013. it sets the ceilings for expenditure and the level of revenue for seven years. this framework was voted on before the elections and clearly did not win the support of the electorate. democracy therefore requires us to prepare for its revision. can we expect some changes in the 2015 budget? is there no urgency in presenting a 'combat budget' in the face of the volatility of circumstances? is it reasonable to lock ourselves in a rigid budgetary tunnel, insensitive to cyclical events, such as the accidents of the road? the 2015 appropriations will largely cover operations launched in 2012 or 2013! at a time when europe is threatened by economic collapse, such inertia deprives the budget of its responsiveness. are we finally ready to implement specific and maximum flexibility as from budget 2015? secondly, i would like to sound the alarm again about the widening gap between commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. as of 31 december 2013, the balance to be paid is skyrocketing, the unpaid amounts are accumulating and growing: 5 billion at the end of 2010, 24 billion at the end of 2013. yet the treaties forbid the union from going into debt. this is a hidden debt that is taking shape and is causing difficulties for operators. this vicious circle is irresponsible. the budget of the european union is modest, representing barely 1% of gross domestic product (gdp). it is therefore necessary to design and implement it with discernment, method and consistency. i ask the council to tell us what its plan is to do to clear up the past and get us off on the right foot. finally, what will be the sources of financing for the 300 billion in investment announced by the president of the commission on 15 july? these cannot be transactions which would in any event have been financed by the markets. if europe is to have a driving effect, it means that it must take a risk, and this risk-taking must be reflected in the budget. since everyone recognizes the urgency, what will be the budget translation in 2015? the credibility of the president of the commission is at stake. in conclusion, i would like to express my strong hope that the 2015 budget will not be a mere continuation of previous budgets, with a new round of payment appropriations. europe is in crisis, europe is in danger, we were elected to put it back on its feet and to restore confidence to the europeans.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has demanded that the governments of the member states apply austerity measures which are striking hard at the middle and lower classes and which have in no way boosted economic activity and growth in the euro zone. it has required these same governments to set an example in budgetary matters by setting accounting and financial limits which must not be exceeded, or very heavy fines will be imposed. it is now clear that the european union should have started applying the rules of budgetary restraint to itself. the situation with regard to payments has reached a very alarming point, as the leading members of the committee on budgets themselves admit. the unpaid debts have thus been accumulating without the council apparently being alarmed. how could he let the situation deteriorate to such a level? the european union is going into debt and there is indeed a structural and not just a cyclical deficit in payments. this is the responsibility of the epp and the pse, which are co-leaders. as in france, where the ump and the socialist party have brought our country to the brink of bankruptcy, where the local authorities, led by the right and the left, are constantly increasing the debt, blowing up operating expenditure and increasing the tax burden. the horizon 2020 programme, which has excellent projects overall, is part of a multiannual framework. but given the circumstances, how can you commit to another seven years? the volatility of the economic situation should make you think, also in view of your demonstrated inability to set a rigorous budgetary framework. what is more worrying, ladies and gentlemen, is your reasoning. at a meeting of the committee on budgets, which i attended last july, mr zanni asked a very sensible question. he asked whether the council could consider making savings to restore the situation. the leading members, led by commissioners, were offended that all european union projects were vital. today, there are some very dark cuts to be made in the budget for horizon 2020, a programme which, let us remember, has some very good aspects. in view of the economic, social and financial situation in the euro area and the very worrying situation of the outstanding balance of over €200 billion at the end of 2013, we strongly urge you to take drastic savings measures in your projects and programmes and finally focus on efficiency, justification and priority.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr juncker has made the digital single market his number one priority, which is not reassuring when you think, as i do, that he is the man of the banks and the international financial lobbies. his project is a trap for the citizens. it's based on a mixture of lies and false promises. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the digital single market. net neutrality must be sought and protected because it guarantees free access to the digital network for all citizens, even the most modest. it is a shield against the will of certain large companies to give priority to those who can afford it. as i speak to you, the powerful gsma, the global association of mobile phone operators, is lobbying hard to bring down net neutrality. will the commission and the european parliament be able to resist it? nothing is less safe because the united states does not want net neutrality. but the european union usually gives in. the false promises are to adorn the future market with virtues that are almost miraculous. in its resolution of 4 july 2013, the european parliament stated that it would bring €800 billion to the european economy, but a year later, mr juncker lowered this forecast to €500 billion. how can you believe such fanciful estimates? the same authorities assure us that the future market will benefit small and medium-sized enterprises and will create 4,400,000 jobs by 2016. i believe, on the contrary, that it will destroy businesses and jobs, particularly in my country, france, by adding digital social dumping to the social dumping that already exists. in reality, this future market is a war machine against the sovereignty of states. with this project, the european union is once again seeking to remove national protections which it equates with obstacles, without wanting to understand that free competition is not an end in itself.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, it must be admitted that the digital revolution has largely taken place outside our borders. today this revolution is challenging our old europe. if we do not want to become a mere colony of the digital world, we must redouble our efforts. the digital agenda is given a prominent place in the new european commission agenda, and i would like to welcome two major initiatives by president juncker. the first is that it has made the completion of a digital single market its priority. the second is that we have appointed a vice-president specifically responsible for this policy. since 2010, there has been a lot of progress in terms of internet access. however, our policy will have failed if a digital divide persists between the territories of the european union, among its businesses and within its population. commissioner barnier said that only one in seven smes sell products online. i would add that only one in five rural households has access to a broadband connection. in france, only a quarter of people over 75 have access to the internet at home. we need to close these gaps and invest in rural broadband infrastructure, support the digitalisation of smes and train citizens in new technologies. i hope that we can meet this dual challenge of recovering our digital sovereignty and making it available to all our citizens.
mr president, contrary to what has been said, the conviction when we look at how the digital market works is that this market already exists today. transactions and non-market trade also go far beyond national borders. it is also, as has been said, a tremendous source of innovation, of changing economic models, but also of changing social relations, of cooperative uses. all this is changing very fast, much faster than european legislation. but that is not why we should give up. on the contrary, i am convinced that we must act because it is our responsibility as the european parliament to establish and strengthen a number of principles in the digital space, as we are trying to do in the physical space. the first of these principles, which we have discussed at length, is the protection of consumers and citizens. i am concerned when i hear that, under the guise of competitiveness, a rule as fundamental as the protection of personal data is being called into question. parliament, the european union, has done a lot in this area, but we must continue to pursue this principle and not sell it for the sake of economic efficiency. we also have to ensure fairness. i am also surprised to hear justification for monopoly situations. we need to ensure fairness, net neutrality and also research.
in writing. i would first like to welcome the decisive action taken by commissioner barnier in the service of the completion of the single market and the development of the digital economy in europe. the two aspects are also interlinked, as the digital single market is one of the key areas for improving the functioning of the single market and is a key growth area. the successors of michel barnier will have to live up to his legacy and continue the efforts to liberalise online services, communication services and e-commerce by breaking down technical, fiscal and administrative barriers. they will also need to strengthen the trust and ownership of digital by citizens, smes and administrations. the eu must now focus on developing a secure and competitive digital sector and i welcome the fact that jean-claude juncker has made this a priority in his €300 billion investment plan. it will be essential for the eu to seek greater technological independence and strategic autonomy, but also to protect the cultural and creative sector which is a source of wealth and jobs.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to highlight the contradictions in the european union's policy a few days before the new york climate summit. europe is hypocritical. on the one hand, we are imposing on our economies repressive and costly environmental policies in the name of global warming, and on the other hand, we are promoting a global trade that is completely disastrous for our jobs and whose carbon footprint, to use your reasoning, is catastrophic. what green policies do, liberal policies undo. in fact, to take an example, when you import a toaster made in china, you not only have to transfer the raw materials to china, process them in factories that are often three times less energy efficient than ours, but also re-export the finished product to europe. the question is, how many trees do we need to plant to offset the carbon footprint of manufacturing and importing this toaster? i therefore ask myself the following question: is europe, by pursuing this liberal policy, not in fact seeking to relocate pollution along with jobs? when you go to the new york summit to demand that developing countries reduce their carbon emissions, remember that these countries produce pollution to produce the cheap goods we import. so we have to stop pretending. europe can show its real priorities at the new york climate summit. we can either save the climate and our jobs, or we can pursue unbridled and destructive free trade. we have to stop covering our faces. the climate objective and free trade are totally incompatible. we therefore call for the development of short circuits and local production, because only this mode of production and distribution will make it possible to reduce considerably the energy and carbon balance of goods transport and, above all, to stop the job loss that you have triggered and that europe is currently experiencing.
madam president, madam commissioner, i join in the congratulations, and it would be absolutely dramatic, pitiful, if this house were to approve the transformation of the climate commissioner into an oil and conflict of interest commissioner. because it's an emergency. with all the scientific reports that come in one after another, inaction today is a crime against humanity. we see it all the time in climate issues, the future is catching up with us: the effects that were predicted in 10, 20 or 30 years are happening. unfortunately, when it comes to energy, the past is paralyzing us. it is clear that there is a tendency for the european union today to do less in terms of energy transition, to listen to the sirens of an energy counter-revolution. we know, as the stern report says, that acting in the energy transition is also getting out of the crisis. we cannot be satisfied today with the commission's proposals on energy efficiency, renewable energy in the climate-energy package. 40% energy efficiency by 2030, as recommended by the envi and itre committees, and two thirds less russian gas imports by 2030. we cannot be satisfied with the weakness of the renewable energy target. so, and i am addressing the italian presidency and the european commission, we must have a big climate-energy package, because europe will lead the climate negotiations if it is exemplary.
madam president, commissioner, if we take the question of climate change seriously - as you do and as we do - what you have said about the two-degree target is absolutely obvious. and yet we're not sure we're going to get there. in this spirit, the new york meeting is a kind of countdown for us europeans to make the paris conference, this cop 21, the success we all aspire to. but to do that, there are steps along the way. first, there is this summit in october, which must be successful. we are counting on you to change the situation and to convince the heads of state and government, through president barroso, that these binding targets will finally be adopted. then there is the question of the inequalities that may be brought about by the fight against climate change and climate change. this question of inequality is an incentive for us to raise the issue of the financial aspect which you mentioned, which we are very attached to and which also concerns inequalities in our member states. and finally, of course, there is the question of the growth model and therefore of which model allows us to be in harmony with a coherent strategy in europe and on a global scale.
madam president, commissioner hedegaard, we were together in copenhagen in december 2009 to witness, unfortunately, this fiasco, for those of us who are lovers of the earth - you yourself, all of us - preventing us from effectively fighting against global warming and climate change. you also pioneered the establishment of the green fund in 2012. we know that it has to be 100 billion euros by 2020 to be able to be transferred to developing countries. today, however, it is a transfer of a few million euros to these developing countries. you said recently in june that there would be no direct distribution, no direct funding from the european commission, because we were not on the board of directors. i think we must, before this summit, make sure that we have direct funding. i wish you could answer that.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, for environmentalists, this agreement about which the citizens will learn that the negotiations have been concluded but they still do not have access to their content clearly involves far more risks than benefits. as far as agriculture is concerned, we have farms in canada that are on average ten times larger than farms in france. the risk is known for livestock. on the question of gmos, it seems to be said in this agreement that there would be a forum for cooperation between the canadian authorities and the european authorities, including so that european legislation on gmos does not jeopardise the prospects for trade. we believe that public procurement should not be seen simply as a commercial tool but as a tool to help, especially local businesses. then, of course, there is this isds issue. you see that more and more governments and members of this parliament are opposing it because they consider it to be a challenge to their ability to decide democratically. i understand that the german government is trying to change the isds, particularly on the question of debt restructuring or bank restructuring. we in the european parliament will not be satisfied with that and i hope that the groups which are speaking out against isds today will continue to do so in the coming weeks. this parliament must reject ceta, especially if there is this investment agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the free trade agreement between the european union and canada will soon be put to your vote. one chapter is crucial regardless of your political beliefs because it's about justice. the text we have received provides for the establishment of private justice between multinationals and the states instead of public justice. this is the mechanism for settling disputes between investors and states. this private justice system consists of an arbitration court which can be seized when a multinational company established in france, for example, considers that the new laws and standards are unfavourable to its activity. the state will therefore no longer be able to enforce the french people's choice of society, their collective preferences, it will have to take account first of all of the interests of multinationals before taking a decision. the canadian government is being sued in this private court by an oil company for imposing a moratorium on shale gas. the private court is being called, and canada could be condemned for trying to protect its groundwater and the health of its people. i am fundamentally opposed to the emergence of this private and opaque justice system, created for the multinationals. justice must remain public and transparent. the best guarantee is that it is fair, that the powerful do not impose their law on everyone else. in the committee on international trade, on which i sit in brussels, i have heard almost all the members express their opposition to this private justice, to the backbiting. but the time of the vote is coming, and the time of the truth is coming. so, ladies and gentlemen, you must be brave and defend your peoples. can you for once say no to this shameful treaty that the european commission is imposing on us? the stakes are high. it's about justice and injustice. i implore you to be brave. for once, vote no.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what a tirade by mrs le pen! we'll never change you. you think you're in a tragedy. "cover this blank page given to the commission so i can't see it!" that's where you are, mrs le pen, but in history, if i may say so, it's you tonight, tartuffe. my dear colleagues, of course we can be critical of everything, but we need arguments. is it the role of the parliamentarians here to mix credible arguments with conspiracy theories or ideologies? this debate tonight comes too soon as usual. some repeat the positions of lobbyists by spreading alarmist speeches. yes, this is a historic agreement with a western partner and friend. yes, we must be vigilant about the respect of the mandate given to the european commission. and yes, there are some red lines that should not be crossed. but, more than anything, we have to explain. to say that we will be subject to canada and then the united states because it's coming is caricature. it is also interesting to note that the first to say that we are submissive when a free trade agreement is signed are the first to defend russia's aggressive trade policy against the european union. the most regrettable thing about these debates on free trade agreements in general is that you are either seen as the defender of democracy whenever you shout conspiracy, or you are a monster who wants to ruin the european economy whenever you try to be positive. and the european commission, as it so often does, comes too late with technical arguments to a population that needs concrete arguments. a population that needs to understand that small and medium-sized enterprises can also benefit from these agreements and open up new markets; i am convinced that our companies will have equal access to public procurement in canada. as you can see, some of the people here have already installed the guillotine. they are only waiting for a final 'no' from parliament to end any hope of progress. so, to avoid that, commissioner, how can you guarantee that the free trade agreement will be respected? what measures are being taken to monitor the implementation of this agreement? and finally, what guarantees will we have that canada will reciprocally apply this agreement and that it will not favour its companies at the expense of ours?
mr president, commissioner, you are watching the debate and you can see from that moment that a little wisdom is needed in this matter. isds today will not pass. that's a pretty strong case. there is a consultation that was issued by the commission. we do not know the results, but citizens have been involved. it is already - i would like to say - a major flaw in the agenda. secondly, you are members of a commission which is leaving office. the new commission president, mr juncker, has publicly said that he is opposed to isds, particularly in trade agreements concerning the united states, and thus by reference to canada. from that moment on, we are democratically elected representatives here, we are a democracy in the european union, it is impossible to speed up the process to make things signed and therefore uncontrollable. i therefore believe that it would be wise to leave it to the next commission to work on this.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we are still in a rather serious situation. i've listened to your proposals, but i find them a little weak. we have heard that 15 states have brought cases against the commission concerning the drug for hepatitis c, sofosbuvir. it is worth noting that the cost of the treatment is between eur 50 000 and eur 60 000 per patient for a period of 12 weeks. so it's huge for the budget. and that affects eight million people at the european level. at the same time, if this was just about this pharmaceutical lab that's making this drug, but it's now about a lot of drugs to treat breast cancer, kidney cancer. many states now rely on rationing, i.e. on cost-benefit: if you are too old, you are no longer entitled to it because the social security budget cannot cover it. so it's really a public health issue. then why did we end up here? some people have said it before: it is a problem of monopoly and patents. if these patents are for 20 years and the states have too often played on the monopoly, there is a back-up solution which is compulsory licensing. we must tell the states to use this license because it opens up the market and other laboratories can very well make drugs much cheaper. there is also the problem of research. take the case of ebola, the crisis that is currently in west africa. we've known about this ebola virus since 1976, but no pharmaceutical company wants to make vaccines and treatments because it's not profitable! in other words, we are on a market policy. but from the moment we put public money, from the moment the european commission puts public money, there must be a conditionality so that there are no monopolies and no patents. this allows for much lower drug prices and thus ensures access to drugs and also contributes to innovation because we are in a deficit of innovation.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr lamberts, i naturally agree with what you said about the green economy and sustainable development. the only question i have and would like to ask you is: is this possible without changing the policy of the european central bank? should we not do quantitative easing or monetary creation for the real economy? not just for the banks, but for the commission to propose a major investment programme. the only question i have is how she's going to finance it. so i think that without monetary creation, without quantitative easing at least 300-400 billion in sustainable development, it will not be possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you are here to prepare yet another summit at the request of france, but what exactly are you doing? in terms of economic outcome, experience tells us that this summit will end like the others, with a flat! or, as i like to say, hollow! indeed, since may 2010, the beginning of the eurozone crisis, you have tried to save the private banking system and your golden calf, the euro single currency, massive stimulus plans to stimulate economic activity, draconian austerity for the devaluation of wages, pensions and social insecurity the troika even went so far as to commit a hold-up on cypriot deposits in april 2013, not to mention the restoration of capital controls at the borders of cyprus, which proves that the monetary zone is not optimal. how many summits will it take in the euro zone and even in the g20 to finally understand that the euro zone is the zero zone! zero economic growth, zero employment, zero competitiveness except for germany, zero increase in purchasing power. the problem is the skyrocketing deficits and debts of the public sector. despite all the gifts given by governments and the ecb to listed companies and private banks, economic growth is completely stunted and competitiveness is still not there. your ultra-liberal europe is starting to take off. the other paradox is that mr juncker has appointed the least virtuous of the eurogroup's economic ministers, mr moscovici, as the commissioner responsible for deficit compliance. when will you understand that the single currency euro is a monetary aberration that goes against the other 180 countries in the world that each have their own national currency, their own central bank and their own borders. in france, the introduction of the euro coincided exactly with the reversal of the trade balance, which has become structurally deficitary; a french external deficit that broke its historical record last july, as we reached 85 billion euros at an annualized rate. as for the debt, it has doubled since 2003, reaching more than 2 000 billion euros at the end of 2014 in france. you are so desperate about the utter failure of the single currency and the decay of your economic system that you are asking member states to falsify the calculation of gdp by including the criminal economy, i.e. prostitution, drug trafficking and smuggling. the euro will not bring recovery, it will bring a new crisis! (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, europe is not liberal, it is ultra-liberal, like the whole of the world economic model which is imposed on us by the anglo-saxon system. of course, we are for liberalism at the national level and we are for protectionism at the international level. but where do you see today that the people are happy to live in this europe, the europe of unemployment, the europe of precariousness and the fall in purchasing power? is that your business model? (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". to answer your question, madam member, what we want is a europe of nations, a europe which creates wealth for the people and not wealth for multinationals and private banking systems. we want a europe that makes people happy. what we are proposing is very simple, the same solution as the world's major economic powers, namely the united states, britain, japan and china, which use their national currencies, their monetary and exchange rate policies, which use their borders and have central banks. we are asking for the same advantages and the same solutions and therefore for a return to the national currency and, eventually, a common euro currency. these are the solutions to restore equality to citizens and prosperity to the people.
mr president, commissioner, the world is moving and europe is sinking into deflation, into no growth, and you are not moving! the fed moved. mr mario draghi - who we would have liked to have had with us this morning - in his speech in jackson hole, in a way, made a poor assessment of the commission to which you belong, questioning its ability to mobilise global demand. what do you say? that we need even more structural reforms without ever understanding that a well understood structural reform is also the one that allows human capital to live. we're calling you in for questioning, mr. katainen. how will you prepare for this euro-zone summit which we so badly need to take account of the new situation, as illustrated by the oecd figures? when will you move to mobilise this capacity of strong domestic demand, of overall european union demand? when will you take action to implement this €300 billion plan that we are promised and which must spearhead a recovery of activity in our european union, in the euro zone, as a matter of priority, to create jobs and hope again?
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a figure: more than 8 million young europeans under 25 are neither in employment, training nor in a traineeship. it's an emergency. the need to finally include young europeans in society. otherwise the very idea of europe will disappear. mr renzi and mr juncker want to make youth unemployment their priority. you chick! "welcome to the club", as daniel cohn-bendit would say! but let's be ambitious! the next commission should start by proposing that investment in young people be excluded from the calculation of public deficits. may the youth guarantee finally become a reality. the european social fund should be really mobilised and the 300 billion announced by mr juncker should be invested where there are jobs, particularly in the energy transition. so, put the whole package on training and learning. there is something you have not said that is important: we must lift young people out of poverty. when will you implement a basic income directive? my dear colleagues, not including young people is to forget to prepare for the future. but young people, they're the ones who have to go faster, stronger and further. it is in this chamber that we must prepare for tomorrow. this is it. (the president withdrew the floor) (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr zdechovský, i will not answer your coffee proposal in this chamber, we will see this in a more discreet way, but i will answer you on the substance. why is there a need for a revival of consciousness in this house? you speak of emotion. it's because it's an emergency! the young people must make this europe. today's young people no longer vote or vote for parties that are against europe. i want to give hope. you say, "in systems that work". but these systems that work, why don't they work elsewhere? i believe that today we must take young people seriously and make them a priority, particularly in our european context.
madam president, my first words are to commissioner andor, who has made a good point of distinguishing between the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative. our basic policy is the youth guarantee, so that young people can return to work. the youth employment initiative is the tip of the iceberg. and so my second words will be to the council representative. we are no longer hearing here 'the council is aware of the gravity of the situation'. we're out of time to describe the situation. the policies have been voted on, now you have to implement them and mobilise the member states around you so that there is real implementation on the ground. the youth employment initiative - make no mistake about it - is not a way of reducing the number of unemployed young people by placing them in a placement or training. we want fundamental changes, changes that affect the fight against the drop-out from education without qualifications, the link between academic training and the world of work, new skills and new jobs, learning and the validation of acquired experience. it's time to get to work. thank you, i'm counting on you!
madam president, there is a debate i do not quite understand. it would be tempting to say that there is no problem of youth unemployment or access to the labour market in northern europe, whereas there is in the south. unfortunately, it's a matter of degree, not a matter of nature. the crisis is obviously hitting the south hard and it is extremely serious. but we also see in the northern countries - which are said to be doing well in quotes - a youth that is not at all in the favorable situation that it could have been a few years ago. this is partly because young people today are in the minority and we are structurally having difficulty in acting for them because many other age groups today are reluctant to make efforts. two considerations in this context. the first is that we must look at what is being done and the commission must be serious in its assessment, and there must be no deviations, as has been the case in some countries. the second element is that the funds of the 6 billion currently allocated must be mobilised in all the countries. and finally, we must look at what the ilo says about the 21 billion, even if we do not arrive at that figure immediately, we can understand it. we must increase the number of staff fairly quickly, in other words we must have a coherent and controlled strategy on this subject.
in writing. this european youth initiative, which incorporates the 'youth guarantee', provides for eur 6 billion of appropriations, including eur 620 million from the yei and the esf for france. of this amount, only 13 french regions are eligible for this programme. the economically disadvantaged regions such as lorraine will not benefit from these european funds, as the unemployment rate among young people is considered to be 'satisfactory'. this programme for neets (young people without education, training or employment) will not simplify the situation, since it will build on existing systems without really sharing them (platforms, missions and so on). on the other hand, the proposed objectives will not allow young people to enter the labour market on a lasting basis and will only be palliatives to the crisis (jobs for the future, civic service, etc.). a voluntarist employment policy would be worth pursuing, breaking with the ultra-liberal dogmas of brussels, allowing intelligent border protection, massive support for smes rather than multinationals and abolishing the posting directive, which contributes to social dumping.
in writing. commissioner, we are facing an unprecedented crisis and our young people are the first victims. precarity, unemployment, resignation: our young generation is in trouble. the european youth initiative must be acted upon and implemented quickly. unfortunately, the low level of advance granted by the commission is worrying. do we want to discourage our local missions and associations because of cash problems? if europe is to act effectively, it must do so in a way that is consistent with the economic reality of its territories. i come from a region, alsace, which is not eligible for the youth initiative. yet it suffers from high youth unemployment. the other european social fund projects must therefore be pursued in parallel. i am thinking in particular of erasmus for young entrepreneurs.
in writing. the current economic and social situation in europe requires us to help those who are losing their jobs as a result of globalisation and ultra-liberalism. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is there to train and re-train workers who have been affected by relocations and the financial crisis. the technical assistance appropriations for this fund correspond to a maximum of 0.5% of its budget, in this case € 330000. i abstained on this vote not because i did not want to help workers in difficulty but to say that this fund would not have been needed if brussels had not pursued ultra-liberal policies and had not opened our frontiers wide to unfair competition from all over the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the measures proposed by the commission under the technical assistance. this fund was established in 2006 by regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 to help workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes brought about by globalisation. in the face of the global economic and financial crisis, it must therefore provide effective and appropriate assistance. but it is still little known to the general public and little is known about its mobilisation by the member states. the commission may finance the expert group of egf contact persons which facilitates networking and exchange of information on the egf. the commission will also be able to reduce the administrative burden on member states by working on an electronic form for requesting the mobilisation of the egf. voting for this mobilisation means allowing for a simplified and effective mobilisation of the egf, which is needed in this time of crisis.
in writing. this text provides for a number of measures to improve knowledge of the different situations for which the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is requested. it also aims to make the processing of applications more efficient. it is essential to provide prompt help to employees who have lost their jobs. my support for this text also extends to the consideration of the possibility of mobilising the egf for young people in great difficulty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr liadh ní riada, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this fund enables people who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis to receive financial assistance to set up projects or to get back to work. the report was adopted by a large majority. i welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund is the symbol of the hypocrisy of the present european union. on the one hand, free and undistorted competition and relocations are encouraged, on the other hand, a palliative is created to mitigate the potential negative consequences of this policy. the regulation on the fund provides that a maximum of 0,5% of its annual amount may be allocated each year, on the initiative of the commission, to finance administrative and technical support activities and audit, control and evaluation activities. the commission proposes to allocate eur 330 000 for this technical assistance. the rapporteur of the gue/ngl group made concrete proposals to improve this european globalisation adjustment fund. the threshold for mobilising the fund is proposed to be lowered to 200 workers instead of 500. i have no illusions about this fund, but i am abstaining on this report which makes it possible to improve its marginal operation.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is used for training and retraining of workers affected by relocations and/or the financial and economic crisis. this economic and social damage is also directly caused by the ultra-liberal dogma defended by the eu. however, given the economic situation and the massive deindustrialisation in the euro area, this fund is necessary. it would not be so if the submissive governments of the member states had not politically encouraged the savage globalisation and ultra-liberalism which are destroying our industries, our companies and our jobs. we must decide here on the appropriations for technical assistance to this fund. according to article 11 (1) of the egf regulation, 0.5% of its budget can be devoted to these appropriations, i.e. a total of €750000 and we are asked here to budget €330000. these appropriations are used to assist the states, although we are paying these subsidies mainly to support the countries of eastern europe which are also participating in the unfair competition suffered by france. on the other hand, the cost of the 2 expert meetings (70000€), 2 seminars (120000€) or the website (20000€) is part of the waste of public money. for these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation, the economic crisis or a disruption to international trade. this vote concerns a request from the european commission to finance the technical part of this financial assistance. i voted in favour because the european commission wants, among other things, to change the procedure for submitting aid applications to simplify the procedure and allow for a faster mobilisation of funds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this globalisation adjustment fund because the commission's action requires sufficient flexibility to adapt to the needs of workers made redundant in the european union. i would therefore like to see the creation of such a fund to provide additional support for this policy of the european commission.
in writing. in this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, we are asked to release more than €6 million in favour of 508 employees made redundant by nutriart sa and its suppliers and 25 self-employed workers who have ceased their activity. this is a request from greece, which is in an unprecedented social and economic crisis and is suffering the full effects of the austerity policy imposed by the european union. the country has experienced a 5% drop in gdp since 2008 and unemployment is 27% nationally, including 28% in attica and 30% in central macedonia, regions affected by this aid. in view of these facts, i voted in favour of this aid, as i did in all the other cases.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this request for a financial contribution from greece for one of its companies, nutriart s.a., which was hit hard by redundancies in 2013. the application was serious and submitted in time, it is the first application for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund for the multiannual financial period 2014-2020. in the face of the firms hit hardest by the global economic and financial crisis, the egf must support those most seriously affected.
in writing. in the general context of a sharp slowdown in the greek economy, the food sector is experiencing particular difficulties. mass layoffs are occurring. the company in question was forced to lay off 508 employees. in this context, i support this text because it will make it possible, through the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, to help redundant workers to find a job again.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr geogios kyrtsos, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this fund enables people who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis to receive financial assistance to set up projects or to get back to work. the report was adopted by a large majority. i welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. - the globalisation fund is doing its job. instead of helping the workers, it encourages the shareholders and the states to submit to the liberalism of the moment. the application concerns the 508 workers and suppliers of the food company nutriat sa who have been dismissed or have gone bankrupt. the greek government justifies this situation by the fall in household disposable income, which has undermined the consumption of a whole range of products (in this case bakery products). the delay in payment by the majority of the firm's customers and the credit asphyxiation by the banks are also at issue. without proposing to break with the austerity policy that has led to this situation, the greek government as well as the eu treat the symptoms without ever tackling the causes of the evil. i abstain in order not to deprive the greek workers of this fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this dossier to allow the release of financial aid for the conversion of nutriart workers of eur 6 096 000. this aid will benefit the 508 former employees of the company, the dismissed persons who worked for the suppliers and 24 self-employed workers affected by the closure.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted today six reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of each of these reports. the aim of the fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament has given its consent to the release of eur 6 million from the fund for 503 beneficiaries in greece. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of the fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to those who have been made redundant so that they can return to the labour market as quickly as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the globalisation adjustment fund to create new jobs for the workers laid off by nutriart in greece. in view of the particularly difficult economic situation in greece, it is the role of the european union to help sectors in difficulty by encouraging the creation of new businesses.
in writing. the european steel industry is in a serious crisis. the case of these romanian companies forced to lay off 825 employees is a further illustration of this. all over europe we are faced with competition from foreign steel, sometimes leading to rescue-oriented restructuring but above all to social disasters resulting in large-scale redundancies. to deal with this, we need to take the appropriate measures that the financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund makes possible. that is why i support this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr siegfried mureşan, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this fund enables people who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis to receive financial assistance to set up projects or to get back to work. the report was adopted by a large majority. i welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. - the globalisation fund is doing its job. instead of helping the workers it encourages the shareholders and the states to submit to the liberalism of the force. the request concerns 1000 of the 1513 workers made redundant by the steel company sc mechel câmpia turzii sa and its supplier sc mechel reparatii targoviste srl. it should be noted that 250 of these workers will receive specific support in order to set up a cooperative company. the romanian authorities point to the increase in imports of finished and semi-finished steel products into the european union as the main cause of this situation. but there is not a single mention of solidarity protectionism, the only tool capable of stopping the european industrial bleeding. i abstain so as not to deprive the workers of this fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this dossier to allow the release of financial aid of eur 3 571 150 to benefit 1513 former employees in the steel industry in romania. i myself come from a region where the steel industry is in crisis, and i know the situation in the sector and the suffering caused by plant closures. even as europe produces less and less steel, it imports more and more. to tackle the decline, the union must take concrete measures to restore competitiveness to our businesses, support innovation and guarantee security of supply.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted today six reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of each of these reports. the aim of the fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament has given its consent to the release of eur 3.5 million from the fund for 1000 beneficiaries in romania. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of the fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to those who have been made redundant so that they can return to the labour market as quickly as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the globalisation adjustment fund to compensate and create new jobs for the workers laid off by mechel câmpia turzii sa, because their employment was terminated in conditions of unfair international competition. the steel sector is particularly affected by the lack of industrial policy in the member states. it is a question of helping these workers to diversify and innovate their activities while investing at european level in a common industrial policy.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is rightly being mobilised in this country. in the face of redundancies in the catering sector in spain, these funds will make it possible to provide effective support to redundant employees in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market through guidance, counselling and job search measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs anneli jäätteenmäki, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this fund enables people who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis to receive financial assistance to set up projects or to get back to work. the report was adopted by a large majority. i welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. - the globalisation fund is doing its job. instead of helping the workers, it encourages the shareholders and the states to submit to the liberalism of the moment. the application concerns 904 spanish workers made redundant in 661 enterprises in the catering sector. the spanish authorities identified the causes of this situation as the 'rebound of the economy, the increase in taxes and charges, including vat, and the fall in wages'. however, they do not call into question the rigorous policy in force in spain. i abstain so as not to deprive the workers of this fund.
in writing. - the aragon region in spain has been hit hard by the economic crisis. the catering sector was among the first to be affected by the difficulties. the decline in tourist attendance has affected employment. i therefore voted to mobilise financial aid for the conversion of eur 960 000 to benefit 904 workers made redundant in 661 different companies in the catering sector.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted today six reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of each of these reports. the aim of the fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament gave its consent to the release of eur 960 000 from the fund to 208 beneficiaries in spain. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of the fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to those who have been made redundant so that they can return to the labour market as quickly as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the globalisation adjustment fund for redundant workers in the catering sector in aragon, because, given the contraction in demand, this sector was particularly affected. i believe that the spanish state has rightly requested this aid, which should be aimed at creating new businesses and jobs.
in writing. the european parliament adopted six reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the application submitted by the netherlands concerns mainly the construction sector. the sector is in crisis throughout europe, owing to lower demand, in particular because of budgetary constraints imposed by the states, but also because of the difficulty of private individuals in obtaining bank loans. the aid provided here amounts to eur 1.6 million to help 475 redundant employees in 89 companies and to enable them to train and reorient themselves. that is why i voted in favour of this request.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this request for financial contribution from the netherlands, which was dealt with very efficiently within a period of five months. this aid will concern 475 workers made redundant in 89 enterprises. the support provided by the emf is appropriate and does not replace actions for which the enterprises are responsible.
in writing. through this european globalisation adjustment fund funding, the european union is helping to promote and accelerate the reintegration into the labour market of dutch workers made redundant in the building construction sector. this text will have concrete consequences for these employees by allowing them to be better supported in their job search, to be trained and to give them the capacity to be more mobile. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr paul tang, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this fund enables people who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis to receive financial assistance to set up projects or to get back to work. the report was adopted by a large majority. i welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. - the globalisation fund is doing its job. instead of helping the workers, it encourages the shareholders and the states to submit to the liberalism of the moment. the application concerns 562 dutch construction workers in 89 different companies. the dutch authorities explain the crisis in the construction sector by the strong dependence of the dutch financial sector on the global financial system. this has led to a contraction in credit, particularly in real estate, and a sharp fall in prices and values in the property market. but the report does not propose any binding measures on the banking sector and calls for greater mobility and flexibility for the workers who are made redundant. i abstain so as not to deprive the workers of this fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this dossier to allow the release of financial aid of eur 1 625 781 for 562 former construction workers in the gelderland region. the construction sector in this region has suffered greatly from the economic crisis. the decline in investment has led to a decline in new construction and renovation. beyond the aid for conversion that we have just approved, it is essential that the member states take their responsibilities by implementing public housing policies aimed at reviving investment in the sector.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted today six reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of each of these reports. the aim of the fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament has given its consent to the release of eur 1.6 million from the fund for 475 beneficiaries in the netherlands. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of the fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to those who have been made redundant so that they can return to the labour market as quickly as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the globalisation adjustment fund for redundant workers in the construction sector in the netherlands. the credit crunch during the financial crisis had a severe impact on housing construction, which the european union needs to address in order to stimulate the creation of new businesses and new jobs.
in writing. in a country which already has one of the highest unemployment rates in europe, a full range of services is needed to give spanish workers who are unemployed the ability to return to work quickly. funded by the european globalisation adjustment fund, assistance for vocational guidance and intensive job search, vocational training and the development of entrepreneurship will be an asset in helping them re-enter the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr esteban gonzález pons, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this fund enables people who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis to receive financial assistance to set up projects or to get back to work. the report was adopted by a large majority. i welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. - the globalisation fund is doing its job. instead of helping the workers, it encourages the shareholders and the states to submit to the liberalism of the moment. the application concerns 400 spanish workers made redundant in three companies active in the woodworking sector. this is due to the sharp decline in exports of woodwork and carpentry products to and from the eu. the wood sector is a european asset to be exploited. to help these workers effectively, a solidarity protectionism should be put in place to reduce the share of exotic and often illegal timber in favour of european timber. i shall abstain, however, in order not to deprive spanish workers of this fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this dossier to allow the release of financial aid of eur 700 000 for 587 workers made redundant by three timber companies in the castilla y leon region of spain. the closure of european timber factories is a huge waste. europe's forests are one of the world's main wood reserves. too often, this wood is exported to countries with low labour costs only to be reimported to europe as processed products. here too, priority must be given to the competitiveness of our enterprises in order to protect and develop employment.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted today six reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of each of these reports. the aim of the fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament gave its consent to the release of eur 7 000 000 from the fund for 400 beneficiaries in spain. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of the fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to those who have been made redundant so that they can return to the labour market as quickly as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the globalisation adjustment fund for workers made redundant in the wood and cork sector in castile because there have been major changes in the structure of this sector in terms of international trade. this was one of the main sources of employment in the region. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union.
mr president, i shall now turn to point 6 of this report, namely the conditions under which we were led to ratify the association agreements with ukraine. i believe, as the report partly indicates, that there has been an unprecedented event, which is the direct intervention of a foreign politician, a foreign parliament. this has put considerable pressure on our assembly and i think this has spoiled the consent given by parliament to the adoption of these reports. that is why i ask you to put this report to the vote to see whether or not a number of my colleagues, as it seems to have been the case, share this view and therefore refuse to accept the minutes, given the defects in the procedure.
mr president, to complement what my colleague mr gollnisch has said, there has been interference by a foreign power in the deliberations of parliament. in other words, there was a desire to influence the vote of the european parliamentarians in the context of the economic agreement with ukraine. we therefore contest the validity of the vote and ask that the minutes be put to the vote today to determine whether we really accept this foreign interference.
mr president, to complete what you have just said, what we are denouncing is this live link which was not put to the vote. in other words, it was a fait accompli, we were forced to have the ukrainian parliament present during a debate in the european parliament. this connection should have been accepted beforehand.
mr president, at your discretion. you can vote by show of hands if the vote is secured, or by roll call.
mr president, i would like to see a vote on the minutes to see whether we adopt it or not, given that it creates a very worrying precedent, which could put us in contact with the parliaments of potential partners at each association agreement, which is obviously putting psychological pressure on our parliament.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to return briefly to the question of how we have managed and mismanaged this epidemic. it started on march 22 in guinea and quickly spread to sierra leone, liberia, and now senegal and nigeria. as you said, there are more than 4,900 people, but that's an estimate because we don't really know how many people are infected, and more than 2,400 dead. the international community has not reacted fast enough, not even the who. they said, we're going to do what we did before, we're going to be able to contain the outbreak. and then it went off at a great speed and we realized that the countries could not respond, we are at war. when we look at the situation in liberia, even the prime minister says "my country is going to collapse", there is no health system, there is no business and even there is a food crisis threatening. i was quite happy to see that the commission said it was providing 150 million, but that is not enough! there has been a lack of international coordination and we would have liked the united nations, through ocha for humanitarian crises, to take up this problem, because we need real coordination. when i heard president obama say "we're going to put 3,000 troops" - and i would like to respond to my colleague - it's not 3,000 troops, it's 3,000 people who are going to put up hospitals to meet demand. and that's a good thing. but beware, that will not be enough, the commission must say 'we too will put in hospitals, we too will put in staff'. i have my children who are with msf there and the situation is catastrophic. i heard commissioner borg say that the risk is low in europe. but he didn't understand anything! if this virus ever mutates, it could be a global epidemic. so we really have to be aware of the scale of the problem. lastly, it is very good to say that we need repatriation, we need planes, but do you know that at the moment there is no plane that is capable of repatriating a volunteer and especially all those humanitarians who work on the ground?
mr president, as all my colleagues have said, and i will repeat it, there is obviously an urgent need for international action against this terrible scourge with the many consequences that have been described, whether they be health, economic or, of course, social tomorrow. we must ask ourselves, when we emerge from this crisis, why the international response has been so extremely slow. what's been going wrong for months that we've taken so long to really take this issue head-on? that's the first question. second, i want to commend president obama's commitment. i think it is good that there is a strong voice that has taken up this issue. and i know what you are doing, madam commissioner, but i regret that there is no loud voice - i do not know where the president of the commission is or where the president of the italian council is - speaking on behalf of the union, on behalf of europe in this battle we all have to fight against ebola. it has not been done and i wish it were done. third, we give money and that's very good. but we know very well that it is not just money that is needed on the ground. when you talk to the medical staff -- and this happened to me -- who are on the ground, they're devastated, they can't cope, they're not enough. what they need is practical help. it's logistical help they need. it's additional medical and health personnel, it's mobile labs, it's airlift assistance for themselves. it is all this practical help that we europeans must pool our efforts to fight this battle. finally, and this is a very important fourth point, we must not wait for the epidemic to reach neighbouring and cross-border countries before we deal with it. we must now prevent the risk of an outbreak in these countries. i am thinking in particular of côte d'ivoire and mali. this is a war that must be won, a war that must be fought, and for that europe must rise to the challenge.
mr president, the seriousness of the ebola epidemic must finally provoke a necessary reflection on the pandemic risk, that of europe. the analysis reveals serious shortcomings in the european union. health and social imprudence in the use of aid to sub-saharan africa for fifty years, with colossal financial masses dissolved in corruption and the opacity of objectives. failure to provide for the training of local carers. the result is a three-month delay in diagnosing the epidemic. and above all, the lack of foresight for the consequences of south-north imbalances and large-scale uncontrolled intercontinental migration. the recent outbreaks of sars or h5n1 are forcing europe to finally take responsibility, because a deadly pandemic is not only predictable, it is inevitable. it's only a matter of time. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the european migration policy must be revised, by re-establishing health controls at europe's borders, but also at the borders established between the member states, with places of reception for medical quarantine. like it or not, that's the advice of our top infectious disease experts. finally, and most importantly, a major plan must be drawn up to create specific structures for multidisciplinary care in europe itself. this request is made by our infectious diseases specialists. they have the lucidity that some politicians lacking, who are caught up in their angelism and their inconsistent third worldism. only at this price can europe say tomorrow that it has assumed its responsibilities.
mr president, commissioner, of course many of us have already said this, but we now know that the who's forecasts for the evolution of this ebola epidemic are particularly pessimistic. let us not be mistaken, this is not a problem that concerns only west africa. in the face of the scale of this epidemic, we are all affected and it is really time for mobilization, extreme mobilization because we have already lost a lot of time. it would be so easy to dismiss our responsibilities and say that this disease does not directly affect our continent. in fact, it is a truly global crisis. the values which we europeans defend in the world, the values of solidarity, dignity and respect for human rights, make our support for the countries concerned a moral obligation. i really want to highlight the efforts that are being made by the medical teams, there on the ground, by the ngos. it is really important to give all our support, but beyond these values that i have just mentioned, it is also about protecting our fellow citizens from the indirect consequences that this health crisis of an unprecedented scale could have. there are of course health risks that could spread to europe, but above all there is the risk of destabilising an entire region socially, economically and humanitarianally. europe cannot and must not remain passive in the face of such a tragedy, because that is also what europe must be for our fellow citizens: a europe which takes its full place on the international scene and which assumes its responsibilities. but, we can really ask ourselves. the ebola virus was discovered in 1976, and until now there is no known cure! this should be a question. i see this as proof that we need to encourage research and innovation in the medical field more than ever. it's absolutely essential. scientific progress, innovation, the role of europe, european solidarity, the ebola epidemic is challenging us beyond the health crisis. the european union has a duty to respond strongly for the countries concerned and for itself.
mr president, commissioner, yes, there is urgency, as was said before me. 20,000 people are potentially going to die by the end of this year, but let's not forget that a million africans are now in quarantine as part of this pandemic. there is urgency and i welcome the european commission's effort to release the 152 million euro. but now we must say concretely what this money will be used for. first, it should aim to increase the number and capacity of treatment centres with isolation services, deploy qualified staff, install more mobile laboratories, establish air bridges, create a regional network of treatment centres. this is something we could do usefully in an emergency. i was rapporteur for the decision on serious cross-border threats to health that we adopted here in july 2013 and which was implemented on 6 november 2013. there is - and i regard him as rapporteur - an urgency for the member states to organise very quickly an extraordinary meeting of european health ministers to discuss this pandemic. as specified in the decision on serious crossborder threats to health, the european union must first of all, as soon as possible, draw up an inventory of health facilities capable of receiving patients, activate the network of european laboratories for the detection of highly infectious pathogens and, above all, be in close contact with the european centre for disease prevention and control. that is the emergency we are facing, commissioner.
thank you very much, mr president, for voting on this. it is true that the regulation is a little ambiguous, since paragraph 2 speaks of approval. we could simply say that parliament expresses its disapproval of paragraph 6. you want to go through with the amendments. i therefore propose the following amendment, which is an addition to the first paragraph of rule 6 of the minutes. here's what that supplement would be. i repeat the first paragraph: 'voting time is being held via video-conference simultaneously with the verkhovna rada (ukrainian parliament in kiev), which is to vote on the eu-ukraine association agreement at the same time as the european parliament.' my amendment would be to add this sentence: 'this unopposed non-regulatory procedure has not been submitted to the agreement of the members of the european parliament.' i repeat: 'this unannounced non-regulatory procedure has not been submitted to the agreement of the members of the european parliament.' that is an undeniable fact, i think, and it completes the minutes so that it reflects exactly what happened in this sitting.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, it took the fall of mosul, the terrible persecution of christians and other minorities, the murder of western hostages for our states to take urgent action against the destabilisation of iraq and the whole region by a terrorist group calling itself the islamic state. we pointed out here, a little less than two months ago, that this phenomenon unfortunately did not date from those tragic events but was much more deeply rooted in the sectarian misgovernance that has prevailed in iraq in recent years, in the syrian chaos naturally and in the messy games of influence between many regional actors. the diplomatic and military reaction of the united states and several european states is welcome. she's a good one. air strikes and aid, particularly to kurdish fighters, have helped stem the tide of islamist militancy. however, i think that we should have no illusions about the format chosen, as it is currently presented. the display of a broad coalition is an exercise that may be indispensable diplomatically but suffers from serious limitations. firstly, this coalition, behind a very short-term common objective, is full of ambiguity on the part of actors with divergent interests. it ignores key countries that we need in this struggle - i'm thinking particularly of iran - and it also ignores the complexity of our approach to the syrian conflict. we also know that air strikes and arms deliveries are necessary but will not be sufficient to defeat this terrorist group. finally, the focus on the islamic state is understandable, but it risks leading to the oblivion of certain other groups, of certain other threats, while at the same time provoking the rallying of jihadist groups, hitherto marginal, to the islamic state. the islamic state and its expansion in iraq and syria are far from the only islamist threat facing the middle east and our western societies. in the face of this multifaceted challenge, a strong and very pragmatic coordination of legal, intelligence, special operations and military operations is needed to bring about a lasting solution. i would particularly stress the need for harmonisation of anti-terrorism legislation between european countries, because we are seeing the phenomenon of these european foreign fighters who are training in syria and iraq, a phenomenon which is growing and which poses a real threat to our societies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many of the men and women of your stature are being naïve when these matters of diplomacy and geopolitics are brought up in our public debates, because, as the former archbishop of mosul said yesterday, the so-called islamic state in iraq and the levant is not a spontaneous generation that came from nowhere. the origins are much deeper, including, unfortunately, textual justifications drawn from the koran or from the hadiths. in the name of freedom of movement and belief, you have imposed tolerance without borders and refused to talk about the problem of the rise of radical islamism showing its most odious face today in the world and even in europe. we've been asked to support regime changes in iraq, libya or the attempted syrian uprising. we have organized or had organized by the military forces of our states arms deliveries and combat training to the militias and terrorist groups that must be fought. recognize today that the islamist organization enjoys financial support, no doubt from qatar or saudi arabia, which according to the report makes it the richest terrorist organization in the world with more than 2,300 million dollars available. today, we seem to be heading towards the public revelation of the purchase by some eu members of oil from isil-controlled oil reserves or wells via turkish networks. that's what mr. howitt was talking about. we must put an end to this scandal as soon as possible, the arab league must take responsibility and these barbarians must be crushed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a moral obligation to prevent the situation in iraq and syria from deteriorating and to take effective and coordinated action against the islamic state, but we also have a political obligation. this is a moral requirement because a group, in the name of a religious perversion, persecutes with its murderous fanaticism all who do not share its folly. firstly, christians, to whom i have already drawn the attention of the president of parliament on 22 july and then several times in august, asking him to convene an extraordinary meeting of parliament on this subject. i'm sorry i wasn't heard. but also on moderate muslims, on foreigners but also on nationals of these countries. and we, in the name of our values, cannot afford to let this go, we must act, not just in words but in a concrete way, by allowing people to stay at home too because we are not talking about countries becoming monoreligious, which could only lead to further tensions. that is why it is also a political necessity for us to act because this fundamentalism feeds and encourages the war between the western world and the muslim world. it is inciting terrorists to act against our citizens anywhere in the world and against our countries. i think it is important to remember that no country is immune from terrorist acts, whether it is large or small, whether it is in the north or south of europe, whether it has acted in such and such circumstances or not. no one is immune, and that is why it is important that everyone takes action. a political summit, a sports meeting, a religious event are, in the eyes of terrorists, the ideal place to act because what they are likely to be looking for is not so much killing as media coverage. and they're very good at using communication. we do need, together, to have the necessary needs. i say 'together', which means that perhaps some countries, which are still relying on others for military action, must also understand that they must also make financial efforts. and then we have to fight the islamic caliphate, not us as westerners, because we would fall into the will of the terrorists to create this general conflict between the western world and the muslim world, but we really have to involve moderate muslim countries. today, they must not merely say so, but actually take action. it's up to our diplomacy to convince them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our debates have shown that the fight against barbarism, fanaticism and terrorism is a necessity for the vast majority of us, and that is why i wholeheartedly support our motion for a resolution. but at the same time, as some have already said, we are forced to consider today that the fight against terrorism is not a sufficient foreign and security policy. in recent years, we have felt that we have responded to the blow by blow. yesterday's friends are today's enemies who may be tomorrow's friends. and we see that the situation - we have intervened in iraq, we have intervened in libya, we are present in syria - is getting worse every year. if we look at this situation and those who have called for a long-term political solution, then we are forced to ask questions that we have not asked for a number of years. we must define a strategy for europe which is both coherent and comprehensive for the near and middle east. how are we talking to iran, what are we doing today with turkey, what is happening with saudi arabia? i hope that, as a new commission is about to be set up, as we are beginning work, that strategy will now be defined, because otherwise we will be moving from charybdis to scylla.
mr president, why should europe in particular defend the christians of the east? for historical reasons, first of all, but also because we europeans share the same civilization with the christians of the east. it is not a religious question, it is a philosophical question, because today it is the jihadists who are the enemies of a certain idea of europe. a europe which invented free will, which invented freedom of thought, freedom of belief but also - and this is probably a characteristic mark of europe - freedom not to believe. and that's not what the jihadists want. and let us say in this chamber that if we europeans do not defend the christians of the east, who in the world will? what are the solutions? of course, the military. the european union must be able to take action against the islamic state and prevent it from doing harm, and in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, shame on all those member states of the union which are unable to put one single plane or one single soldier on the line to defend their values. of course, we must increase our humanitarian aid, but at the same time we must put an end to these totally idiotic policies which, under the guise of protecting eastern christians, want to move them to europe or elsewhere. the christians of the east are at home in iraq, they are at home in syria. that's where they have their homes, that's where they have their values. that's where you have to defend them. of course, to give them the means to weigh their future when peace is restored. and in this respect, we must bear in mind the lebanese political model, which is not perfect, but which gives each religious group guarantees of political representation. finally, to those who think that the christians of the east must fend for themselves and who have not seen the genocide that is taking place, i want to say the following very simple thing: if you do not want to act for the christians of the east, act for yourselves! because europe is at war with the islamic state, including at home. look at the number of young europeans who go, indoctrinated, to war. ladies and gentlemen, in defending the christians of the east, we also defend who we are.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yes, there is an emergency, chaos is here, we are at war with daesh. urgency to act, yes, but urgency to think - as my colleague vincent peillon has said - about a european strategy for the near and middle east. urgency, yes, to support the international alliance that has been created. we must also welcome the initiative taken by the president of the french republic, françois hollande, to organize a conference on security in iraq last monday in paris. the danger is immense, the threat is deadly, the creation of a jihadistan in southern europe is under way if we are not careful. we know that there are terrorist groups in egypt, libya, syria that have already pledged allegiance to daesh. well, let's unite, let's work together to fight these terrorists and make sure this war is unrelenting.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, we have spoken about ukraine, we have spoken about syria and iraq. at the risk of being a bit shocking, i think that libya is currently the country in our immediate neighbourhood that probably concentrates the most security and humanitarian challenges for europe. the structural fragility of this country was of course brought to light by the circumstances of the fall of the gaddafi regime in 2011. but we must not be deluded. these structural difficulties, this fragility of libya, are not the result of military intervention and it is not a question of endlessly speculating on the validity of what was done three years ago or not. the complexity of the crisis we face today, the weakness of libyan institutions, the multiplicity of actors mean that there is no possible solution in libya without a minimum of consultation and coherence in the actions of neighbouring countries and international organisations. in this respect, we can regret the lack of coordination between all these actors over the past three years. the un framework was, of course, legally indispensable but it proved to be very weak operationally and everyone, in fact, pursued their own little libyan policy - including our member states - in their own corner and without any real consultation. this was the case, in particular, on the key issue of security structures, security institutions and, from this point of view, the united states, italy, france, the united kingdom, qatar, turkey, nato and i do not know who else, each pursued its policy without real consultation and we are now in a situation of total confusion. the libyan confusion, which should not be excused, which should not be exonerated, was met by international confusion, and we were unable to find a lasting solution. this is also true, and i would like to mention it at the end, of the famous european mission we have undertaken, the eubam mission, which is about border management. that's a key issue. that mission failed, it must be acknowledged today, and it probably needs to be redesigned to produce something that is more in line with the reality of libya's complexity today.
mr president, mr panzeri has said it, others have said it before. it is true - as i said earlier - that intervening every time without a political strategy and intervening militarily can create more harm than good, even if it can sometimes serve as a bail for both sides at a time. i even hear moral speeches at times. now we are in a dramatic situation and i would like to draw attention to one point. of course, the only solution we have today is to support the political process and the parliament that emerged from the june elections, and to do so, of course, by involving all the regional actors, since they are the ones who are now using libyan territory to confront each other. thinking we're gonna be the police all by ourselves doesn't make any sense, not here, not anywhere. but there is a matter which was raised earlier by one of my colleagues, which is of great concern to europe, which speaks - and we have done so a great deal this afternoon - of human rights. there is the question of immigration, there is the question of the mediterranean becoming a graveyard for thousands of citizens and in particular for those citizens who are now being looked after by mare nostrum but who we know are still essentially dependent on the action of italy. we should show solidarity with the other european states and our passion for human rights should not be a mere slogan but a reality in the face of these human lives.
the question is "blue cardboard". a question to our honourable colleague in the house. can you tell me how many women and children have died in these seven weeks of conflict?
mr president, in modern warfare it is always the civilian population that suffers the greatest human and material damage. the conflict between israel and palestine has dragged on for decades, causing needless suffering to civilians on both sides. yet, many people in both gaza and israel remember how they used to celebrate religious holidays with each other. there is, when you talk to these populations, as i did a few years ago, a real expectation of progress. let us not forget that this conflict is also the basis on which terrorism and the pretexts put forward by fundamentalists thrive. the european union has unfortunately been too absent from the solution of this conflict for several years. it is essential that we go beyond our grand declarations of solidarity and that we provide concrete and rapid solutions - which is not always the case - to the needs of the civilian population, but also that we take genuine diplomatic action to help create the necessary confidence. on both sides, the more pragmatic are very close to the solutions we all know about, the two states and the guarantee of israel's security. it lacks the trust element. some countries like egypt are participating in this, and we have a role to play in this. time is against the civilian population and against us. it's time we took action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is there any hope for peace when we meet the israelis, when we meet the palestinians - i was there twice this year? it's doubtful, especially among the younger generation. is it our job, by making speeches in favour of one side or the other, to spoil what could be, after this tragedy, a hope of negotiation? i do not think so, and i do not think that our resolution today on two very concrete points should be underestimated. the fatah chairman, president abbas, cannot go to gaza. so, the question for the negotiation is: who are the interlocutors? the palestinians must be reconciled, but it is not done. and the first thing we can do to help - there is the problem of civil servants' salaries rather than go off into great speeches - is to determine how we, the european union, can first of all bring a solution, in the coming days, to the palestinian reconciliation. because in gaza, even the democratic palestinians cannot enter today. secondly, and this is our resolution, the european union is available to provide border control and to say that security is guaranteed. we have here the confidence condition, which was proposed earlier by our colleague, which would allow us to return, of course, to the colonies and the embargo. but until we make very concrete progress on these two points, namely the interlocutor in the palestinian reconciliation and border control - some are already boasting of rebuilding the tunnels - there will be no peace solution. let's go with the peaceful solution.
mr president, in the face of the violence of the facts, the war crimes committed in gaza, and the suffering of the occupied, colonized palestinian people, who are denied their most basic rights, there is no need - i think - to add violence of words here. but it is our responsibility to say that the international community and europe have no excuse. you see, in other times, it was possible to say "we didn't know", but here we knew and we let it go. we know what is happening in gaza and we continue to turn a blind eye. however, during our visit to jerusalem and ramallah, we saw that the palestinians are still waiting for europe, because it is true that a new impetus can now come from europe, provided that they believe in our diplomacy. i would like to conclude with a word: on condition that we also stop making the palestinians hostages of a european conscience on which europe's barbaric history is based.
mr president, i have been the last of this debate in this house for an hour now. i must say, as the last one, that the debate we have had since earlier gives me a very bitter taste. bitterness because i've heard prosecutors on both sides, i've heard warring voices on both sides as well. and i've heard few messengers of peace in this debate. i believe that we are a large majority in the european parliament in wanting peace and in showing that there is indeed a balanced voice to say stop to what we have been experiencing during this week in which more than two thousand children, women, particularly on the palestinian side, have been massacred. we also know that at the gates of this region we have jihadist terrorists, whether it is daesh in iraq, we talked about it earlier, but also al-nusra in syria, but also in egypt with the supporters of jerusalem. we are well aware that the only solution is reconciliation, that is to find the voices of peace, to find at last a credible voice, a credible diplomatic policy of the european union, and that is what i am asking for. let us return to the european initiative, to the oslo agreements, because there is a possible basis both with regard to israel and with regard to palestine. my colleague, vincent peillon, has put a number of proposals on the table. well, i hope that not only will we vote for this resolution by a large majority, but that a large majority in this house will finally be able to find the way to peace.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the european union annual report on human rights and democracy in the world (2014/2830 ((rsp)).
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, in the five years that i have been working here on human rights issues, as a member of parliament, i have mixed up perplexity, anger, rage and impotence. it is in this spirit that i read your fifth report. yes, since 2009 there have been improvements, but overall we are still far from the mark, far from a document that simply allows us to have a comprehensive analysis, to judge objectively what the european union is doing in this area. i shall take two cartoon examples, but i think they will show what efforts need to be made. when i read in the union's report on this matter that mrs ashton took part in the 150th anniversary of the red cross, i think to myself: who are we kidding? when i read that the european union has helped china and poland to have a dialogue on good practice in youth unemployment, i have the same thought. more seriously, because i like to be constructive, yes, the contribution of the european parliament is better taken into account, but to move forward - as i have already said - the contact group must really work. we're way off the mark. we must really give our emergencies serious consideration. so, i thank you, mr. lambridinis, for all your efforts. i just want to say, thank god you're here. and very concretely, yes, there are focal points everywhere, but their effectiveness varies greatly. so let's take a real look at this and work on it. the same is true of the national strategies, which would be more effective if they were transparent, in particular if they were communicated to the ngos working in the countries concerned. the country-by-country analysis is still marked by a certain "double standard" contrary to a universalist view of human rights. and let us not ourselves be nourishing cultural, religious relativism, as we have just heard. this would be even more so if the issues were really being raised by the high representative, the member states and the new composition of the commission. the commissioner's letters of assignment are contrary to the priorities you have just set out. you know very well, commissioner, that this is not the case, but there is still a world of difference between the european union's words and deeds in this area.
madam president, we can only welcome the european union's annual report on human rights and democracy in the world. but for 2014 it is also a question of explaining, in the future, why the european union has supported and continues to support kosovo, whose leaders have a criminal profile. why, in our culture of democracy and human rights, did we in ukraine agree to the signing of agreements with the democratically elected government of mr yanukovych in november 2013, when a western-backed coup d'état was being prepared? is this the rule of law? why didn't we reveal that pro-maidan snipers were shooting at the pro-maidan population? did human rights prevent us from doing so? why did we agree to elections in a country in civil war, when we usually support a government of national unity and then hold elections? so, was democracy afraid of elections in a peaceful ukraine? why did we agree to the kiev government bombing its own people? with the result of three thousand dead, ten thousand dead according to other figures ,
sir, would you like to begin your remarks? we're breaking time after one minute. sir, would you mind speaking for a minute? you asked for it, you got it, take the floor for a minute, sir. no, i got it.
author. - madam president, in the spring of 2012, hundreds of people took to the streets of baku to demand democratic reforms. the government responded with a wave of repression, the effects of which are still felt today, and are even getting worse. political opponents, civil society activists, journalists are as always the victims. leyla yunus is the symbol of this. while international tension is focused on ukraine, european tension, i would even say, the ruling clan believes it enjoys total impunity, as it is courted because of its large hydrocarbon reserves. azerbaijan is bound by a partnership and cooperation agreement with the european union and an association agreement is being negotiated. what is the point of these negotiations if they are not conditional on respect for human rights? in azerbaijan, not only is there no progress, but it is steadily declining. it is therefore urgent to suspend the negotiations, to strictly apply the association agreement to the exclusive benefit of civil society and to suspend it if necessary. otherwise, all we have said before is just wind. the european union has the means to act here, let it do so!
member of the commission. - madam president, relations between the eu and azerbaijan are indeed very important, in some areas even strategic. however, they also present us with a number of challenges. let me highlight two concerns in particular. first, we are witnessing a serious deterioration in the human rights situation in azerbaijan. in recent months several prominent human rights defenders have been arrested and imprisoned as part of an accelerated crackdown on civil society. secondly, this summer we also saw an escalation in the conflict over nagorno-karabakh, which registered the most serious breaches of the ceasefire agreement since its signature in 1994. the eu had been vocal in expressing its concerns over these worrying developments, in particular over human rights and the conflict situation. human rights have also been raised bilaterally with the azerbaijani administration. commissioner füle and deputy secretary-general helga schmid did so during their meetings with president aliyev and with civil society representatives in their recent visit to baku for the eastern partnership informal ministerial dialogue. these issues were also addressed during president barrosoʼs visit to baku in june. in response to the rapidly deteriorating situation we have also triggered our guidelines on human rights defenders and instructed the eu delegation to offer concrete support to human rights defenders at risk. the ongoing pressure on independent civil society in azerbaijan contradicts our common values and the spirit of the eastern partnership. we cannot stress enough the importance of a thriving civil society for a thriving democracy and we will keep on reminding our partners in azerbaijan that the best way to achieve stability and prosperity in the country is through a functioning multiparty democracy, open societies and open economies. we maintain our offer to base our relations with azerbaijan on a new, legally binding basis. it will have to be inspired by common values and in particular human rights and fundamental freedoms. we have started negotiating an association agreement and a strategic modernisation partnership. these steps are very important, not least in the context of azerbaijan’s role in ensuring europe’s energy security. the eu recommends that azerbaijan, which is currently chairing the council of ministers of the council of europe, reviews its recently amended ngo legislation and takes forward the recommendations of civil society and international organisations to bring the legislation into line with the commitments it has made in the council of europe. we will continue to pass messages to all relevant stakeholders in a spirit of partnership. following the contact between the council of europe’s secretary-general thorbjørn jagland and president aliyev, we look forward to a meeting of the joint committee between the presidential administration and representatives of civil society in the presence of a council of europe representative. unfortunately the committee has not been convened in the last six years, so this meeting would be an opportunity to relaunch dialogue between the azerbaijani authorities and civil society.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on burundi, in particular the case of pierre claver mbonimpa [2014/2833 ((rsp)) ]
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr mbonimpa, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the situation in burundi. on 15 may, mr mbonimpa was arrested and placed in provisional detention following statements he made on burundian radio denouncing the imbonerakure training camps for the ruling president's party youth in the east of the drc. these camps exist and represent a major threat to peace in burundi. we condemn the provisional detention of mr mbonimpa and call for his release and for respect for the rights of the accused and for judicial procedures. we also call for the protection of human rights defenders and for an investigation into the actions of the imbonerakure. the situation in burundi is getting harsher and the ruling government is restricting protests and the rights of political opponents. but next year elections will be held in burundi and it is necessary that the political debate can take place in a calm and serene manner.
author. - madam president, burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world, with the highest hunger rate among the countries where this index is calculated. it is suffering the consequences of the crisis in its large neighbours and has to cope with the influx of thousands of refugees. a series of elections are due in 2015, and the climate is deleterious. all those who do not support the regime, who dare to criticize it, are victims of a terrible repression, whether they are political activists or ngos, journalists or ordinary citizens. pierre claver mbonimpa is one of them. a brave man, who dedicated his life to human rights. our debates, commissioner, are currently being followed in burundi. i greet those who are watching us. our discussions must be hopeful for them. the european union has the means to act. its assistance under the 10th edf has more than doubled to €432 million. this is essential for a country whose budget depends on foreign aid for more than 50 per cent. yes, the leaders of this country are corrupt. the european union must therefore press for its aid to be allocated only to the country's priority problems, conditional on respect for human rights, the release of all political prisoners, and support for the un's demand to open an investigation into the military training centres, which are at the heart of the accusation of pierre claver mbonimpa.
madam president, i apologize for my lack of experience. i wonder on what basis we are voting in the order you have chosen today. it seems to me that as usual - but perhaps i am wrong again, and i shall be glad to be refuted by you - a compromise resolution tabled by several groups is put to the vote first.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in ukraine and the state of eu-russia relations which, beyond taking account of the dramatic diplomatic situation we are experiencing, highlights the catastrophic situation facing our farmers. the crisis facing european farmers, particularly french farmers, is not a health or market crisis but a diplomatic one, caused by a standoff between the european union and russia. we therefore called on the european commission to act accordingly and to take better account of the needs of farmers while considering the possibility of using budget lines other than agriculture.
in writing. - in these recent turbulent times in relations between ukraine and the european union, we must support all initiatives for peace but also remain clear about the intentions of russia, engaged in the undeclared "hybrid war" it is waging against this country. it is in this context that i have voted in favour of this resolution calling on the european union to stand up to russia by strengthening the sanctions envisaged and to increase support for european farmers who are badly affected by the trade embargo. while we welcome the signing of the minsk ceasefire agreement, we must also deplore the fact that it has been violated by russian troops and separatist forces. but it is much more important to make every effort to find a political solution than a military one. finally, i welcome the decision of the french government to suspend the delivery of mistral helicopter carriers to russia, and other member states are expected to follow suit.
in writing. - the european parliament has rightly denounced the russian embargo on agricultural and food products, the immediate and disastrous effects of which we know in france. i am a strong supporter of french agriculture and am particularly concerned about this retaliatory measure, whose effects are now spreading to other sectors such as the transport sector. the european parliament calls on the parties to the conflict to engage in dialogue and to find a diplomatic and peaceful solution, which i welcome. however, i will remain cautious when it comes to discussing relations with our russian partner, a major economic power and member of the g8. i have read amendments calling russia an authoritarian state. it would not be in the european parliament's interest to add fuel to the fire by further aggravating the parties currently in negotiation. let us not indulge in caricature and instead support the diplomatic path if we want to end this crisis as quickly as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in ukraine and relations between the european union and russia. the resolution welcomes the ceasefire agreement reached and calls for a genuine peace process, while stressing the inviolability and integrity of the ukrainian territory. the ambiguous role of russia is also condemned. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution to call for the ceasefire in eastern ukraine to be maintained and for the minsk agreements to be strictly enforced. the unity and independence of ukraine must be strictly guaranteed. to do this, it is important to work towards a political solution to this conflict and to avoid any further escalation, including by completely isolating russia at international level. nevertheless, it was fundamental in this resolution to condemn russia severely for its actions and to support the latest sanctions adopted against it by the eu. in the face of moscow's retaliatory measures, namely the boycott of eu fruit, vegetables, meat, dairy products and fisheries, it is important that european producers are properly compensated. in addition, given the current particularly complicated situation, the eu needs to reduce its dependence on russia in various fields (energy, technology, etc.). finally, with regard to the eu-ukraine association agreement, which was approved by the european parliament and the kiev parliament, it was essential to resist russian pressure by saying that nothing could change it.
in writing. - i support the ceasefire agreement between separatists and the ukrainian authorities in the east of the country and a dialogue-based settlement of the current crisis. the text of the resolution proposed to us goes far beyond relations between ukraine and russia. the european union can act as a moderator in the current crisis. but this resolution lacks impartiality as it calls for more sanctions against russia, while supporting the eu-ukraine free trade agreement. ukraine must be able to choose its own path outside of any foreign influence and interference, find a system of government that will address the concerns of a part of its population in the east, and find a modus vivendi with russia that addresses its concerns without ukraine losing its sovereignty. this must be done without any pressure, whether from russia with gas prices or from the european union with the free trade agreement.
in writing. - this unjust resolution denounces the russian aggression in ukraine and calls for the continuation of sanctions against russia. to justify these positions, it presents as established facts highly questionable claims such as the inability of investigators to access the mh17 crash site or the presence of a continuous flow of arms and ammunition from russia. but no reaction on svoboda's presence in the government. or on the azof division which makes up the bulk of the ukrainian troops and which has the same emblem as the nazi division "das reich" responsible for among other things the oradour on glane massacre. i vote against this bellicose text. i therefore welcome the defeats of the ukrainian neo-nazi gangs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the state of play of the situation in ukraine and eu/russia relations. parliament called for the ceasefire to be respected by all parties and for decisions to be avoided which could jeopardise it.
in writing. although the resolution acknowledges the relative improvement in the situation following the signing of the ceasefire in minsk, the text promotes solutions that take too much sides in the conflict and thus threaten the security of the region and ukrainians. similarly, the promotion of the eu-ukraine association agreement cannot serve the interests of the ukrainian people, knowing that this treaty is one of the reasons that has led ukraine to tear itself apart for several months already. i therefore did not vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - i am extremely in favour of the adoption of the european parliament's resolution on the situation in ukraine and the state of relations between the european union and russia, because it was becoming urgent for the european parliament to take a clear and precise position. in this sense, i support this resolution because it sets out a strict policy in the face of russia's actions. nevertheless, the facts of the conflict must be presented as clearly as possible in order to establish such a policy on an unshakable basis. i therefore voted against amendment no 9, because the claim that the ceasefire is a pretext for russian troops to establish a 'land corridor' to crimea and transnistria could not be substantiated.
in writing. in view of the rapid spread of the ebola virus, which has already killed 2430 people out of 4907 cases recorded as of 15 september, the outbreak has been declared by the who as a public health emergency of international concern. the commission announced an 'ebola package' worth €140 million and it was decided to launch preparations without delay for the development of a european mechanism for the coordination of medical evacuations. in total, up to 20,000 people are expected to be infected and studies suggest that 373 million euros will be needed to stop the epidemic. some airlines have suspended flights from guinea, liberia and sierra leone. the national front called for the suspension of these flights to and from these countries. i therefore voted against this resolution. whereas, in view of the current situation, it is now necessary for us to engage in a rapid action plan, whether for the deployment of medical teams, the establishment of treatment centres, the establishment of a sustainable risk management policy, vaccine research or information and awareness raising among the population.
in writing. - i voted in favor of the ebola outbreak resolution. since the beginning of this outbreak, european commission structures have already provided €147 million in humanitarian aid and treatment to help contain the virus, but our response remains slow. the affected regions of central africa do not have a health system to contain the outbreak, which has repercussions on security in the region. in a coordinated action with the un, the eu will therefore provide comprehensive assistance: not only health and logistics, but also support for the training of carers, education and prevention, health and nutrition assistance, always complementing long-term development aid. the role of the african union as a regional organisation that can provide local responses is to be highlighted.
in writing. with this vote, the european parliament wanted to highlight the critical health situation in west africa. faced with the spread of the ebola epidemic, this region of the world needs stronger international support. this has led us to call on the international community to intensify its efforts. in particular, it is important to encourage the european commission to act more vigorously in close cooperation with the united nations and the african union by conducting needs assessments and developing country-specific action plans to identify and coordinate assistance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on ebola which calls for greater involvement of the international community in the fight against the epidemic and calls on the european commission and the member states to take coordinated action in this regard. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. - i've asked to be a co-signer of the joint resolution on the ebola outbreak in west africa. the pandemic poses a real challenge to global security, for which the european community must mobilise humanitarian, logistical and financial resources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the resolution also calls on the european community to strengthen medical research and to support the initiatives of the african union to combat the spread of the virus and to address the political, economic and social consequences of the epidemic for the region.
in writing. the resolution welcomes and encourages the african union's aseowa mission with the help of the european union to contain ebola. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the virus. nevertheless, i wonder whether it is appropriate to have a joint military and civilian mission of aesowa as is the case and which also includes the sending of american military personnel who are once again taking advantage of the situation. for these reasons i abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the european union's response to the ebola crisis. through this vote, we deplore the loss of life in the affected areas. the problem is not an african problem, but a global problem. the international community must play a greater role and african states must shoulder their full share of responsibility. the resolution calls for a series of prevention measures and actions to be implemented in africa and europe. it is vital to act against the disease and its health and social consequences.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is a step forward in the fight against one of the most serious epidemics that africa has experienced in recent decades, in particular in consolidating the support provided by the eu and its member states in terms of medical expertise and equipment. the resolution calls for the dispatch of doctors to the affected countries and for better cooperation between african and european countries.
in writing. - since march 2014, the ebola epidemic has been spreading rapidly across the african continent and the virus has already infected more than 4,000 people and caused more than 2,000 deaths. i voted in favour of this resolution, which clearly demonstrates the european union's support for the health actors involved in the fight against this virus. more resources are needed and there is an urgent need for the european commission and the member states to step up their action. this includes helping to strengthen weak health systems in affected countries, ensure better information and prevention and continue the search for an effective vaccine. it is also essential that these actions be carried out in cooperation with our international partners, the united nations and associations. the ebola epidemic is now a global security challenge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the ebola epidemic, because the european union must become aware of this catastrophe, which has been excluded from our agenda for too long. i therefore deplore the lack of reaction from the european union, especially when it affects the health of european union citizens. so i am in favour of any action to contain this epidemic.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the eu response to the ebola outbreak. the latest figures from the world health organization for the outbreak are almost 2,630 deaths and 5,357 cases. a dramatic result, and yet probably underestimated. it is therefore crucial that the european union and its member states mobilise to stem the epidemic. the resolution stresses in particular that the international community must play a greater role in combating the epidemic and assume its responsibilities in this regard. in supporting this resolution, which calls on the european commission to step up its support for the states concerned and also calls on the member states to draw up an emergency plan to deploy the necessary personnel and equipment to the countries affected by the epidemic, i wanted to remind them that this crisis is not just west africa's but the whole of the international community's and that it is high time to mobilise.
madam president, i am glad that we are finally taking an interest in the plight of minorities and, in particular, christians in the middle east. but i regret that this interest is so belated when the situation has only worsened since the us invasion of iraq in 2003. you only mention the so-called islamic state. the islamist militias in iraq and syria are, however, just as violent and hateful to each other. how can you claim to be fighting daesh while supporting the syrian branch of al qaeda, the al nusra front? it is totally inconsistent for nato member countries to tolerate turkey continuing to arm, train, finance and buy oil from the so-called islamic state and to accept that recruitment and recruitment is organized in the streets. beyond the usual gestures, it is time for european countries to take clear positions to fight all islamist militias in cooperation with the syrian and iraqi governments.
in writing. - religious minorities continue to be persecuted in iraq and syria, massacred, and driven from their historic place of life. it is our duty to support them and to fight against terrorism and isil. the european union must take firm and concrete measures to defend eastern christians and all religious minorities. the european parliament's resolution is balanced and condemns all violations of human rights. it calls on the member states to take responsibility and to combat all forms of discrimination. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the advance of the islamic state (often called daesh which means the same thing but shows a semantic logic) has already resulted in a large number of abuses and one could even speak of crimes against humanity (forced conversions, slavery, trafficking in women, torture, murder ...). this translates to 1.8 million internally displaced people and nearly 190,000 deaths in syria since the start of the conflict, according to the un. in these countries, areas under the control of the islamic state, a faction of al-qaeda, are in a state of growing anxiety, subject to a rigorous interpretation of sharia law and the establishment of a caliphate that violates human rights and persecutes religious minorities, especially christians. support is needed to enable them to live safely on their land and to guarantee the return of displaced people to their places of origin. in view of this situation, i voted for this resolution in order to strongly condemn these abuses, to put an end to the illicit trade of the islamic state which finances its advance, to ensure the protection of persecuted populations, to facilitate access to humanitarian aid and to prevent european citizens from leaving the territory of the union to go and fight alongside the terrorists.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in iraq and syria. we support the minorities persecuted in the conflict, especially the christians of iraq who are victims of religious intolerance. the so-called "islamic state in syria and iraq" has no legitimacy and its actions, including the barbaric murder of journalists, have been unanimously condemned as criminal. we must not allow it to profit from its oil sales on the international market. the international community is therefore supporting the legitimate iraqi authorities and is supporting the protection of the civilian population by the un. security measures will be taken to prevent foreign jihadists, including european citizens, from supporting the islamist insurgency.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution on the islamic state offensive in syria and iraq and the persecution of minorities there. the european parliament voted to reaffirm its strongest support for persecuted religious minorities, especially christians in the east. it was particularly necessary to recall the right of these christian communities to continue living in their native lands while being free to practice their religion. these multiple human rights violations against religious minorities, atrocities such as the murders of journalists james foley and steven sotloff and humanitarian worker david haines, are proof that the european union must take a very firm stand against the barbaric actions perpetrated by the islamic state.
in writing. - barbaric acts, forced conversions, kidnappings, slavery, sexual abuse and torture are crimes perpetrated daily and with impunity by the islamic state (is) in iraq and syria. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the institutions and governments of the european union to take urgent measures to help and protect religious and ethnic minorities, especially christians, and to provide humanitarian aid to civilian victims. hundreds of european citizens also joined the insurgents. it is therefore urgent that the european union and the international community take legal action against anyone suspected of involvement in acts of terrorism.
in writing. - the european parliament has chosen to react by expressing its indignation at the suffering of the iraqi and syrian peoples, in particular the christian populations and the yazidi minority persecuted by the jihadists of the islamic state. in the face of barbarism, words are of little comfort but indifference would have been the manifestation of a cruel carelessness. i share the pain of these displaced people and those who are under the yoke of the islamic state. beyond the french military action, which is in response to a request from the iraqi president and which i would like to see taken up at european level, i am concerned about another phenomenon of such magnitude that threatens the security of our territories, the return of jihadist fighters, 946 of whom are french. the threats posed by these radicalised individuals must be taken into account in the formulation of our border management policies. while this remains a highly national issue, the abolition of internal borders and the de facto free movement of these people require enhanced cooperation between the european police and judicial authorities. european action is therefore needed.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution of the situation in iraq and syria. the text condemns the ongoing violence and persecution, in particular by the terrorists of isil, and calls for support for the iraqi government and protection of the civilian population. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - as a co-signer of this resolution, i wanted to emphasise the tragic situation of eastern christians who are victims of the religious and cultural cleansing carried out by the islamic state. it is our civilized heritage, our values, our culture that is being murdered with them. this is a crime against humanity, a crime against the diversity of the world, a crime against the identity of the middle east but also of europe. the eu must commit itself to allowing the christians of iraq and syria to remain in their homeland or to return safely, because to condemn them to exile would be to recognise the end of their civilisation. in the face of the emergency, the eu must act to: increase its humanitarian aid to persecuted communities; organise a massive military response to defeat the islamic state; supporting political transitions in iraq and syria ensuring better institutional representation for christians on the lebanese model; we must stop the jihadist contagion by protecting vulnerable neighbouring countries like lebanon, but also our own countries which are threatened by the return of jihadists from europe, whose numbers are growing. for these jihadists, we are the target to shoot because, like the christians of the east, we are the face of otherness. let us face their barbarity relentlessly.
in writing. - this resolution is unconditional support for the coalition formed by the united states, without any mention of responsibility for this disaster. the blame for the situation is placed on syria, while isil was created in iraq in 2006 following the us intervention. there are some calls for the protection of civilians, but they are not being taken into account. the european parliament is dishonoring itself by adopting the us military's war leaflets as a resolution. i vote against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which strongly condemns the offensive of the islamic state in iraq and syria and the abominable persecution of minorities. i have called for a real mobilisation of europe and the member states on this issue since june when the islamic state took mosul. through this vote, we condemn the cruel and cowardly executions of journalists, and denounce the caliphate established in the region. i am glad that the resolution refers to the 'paris appeal' of the muslim organisations in france which denounce the actions of the islamic state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the persecution of minorities in syria and iraq because in the face of the atrocities witnessed by the european union, we must support these populations and condemn their persecutors. the massacres committed by the islamic state cannot go unpunished. in this sense, i support the european parliament's initiative to denounce this situation. it is therefore vital to encourage any action that promotes stability in the area and the silencing of terrorists. the urgency of such action is all the greater because such a situation is fostering the indoctrination of young europeans to religious hatred and terrorism.
in writing. - i am deeply shocked by the events taking place in iraq and syria. i supported this resolution so that the european union can step up its action to help the national and local authorities in iraq to combat extremists. it is essential that a solution be found to combat the rebel and jihadist groups and to achieve a political solution. attacks on civilians must cease and the perpetrators of barbaric acts must be severely punished.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution on the current situation in iraq and syria which, as too often, ignores the causes of the problem and proposes simplistic solutions and goes to war. first of all, let us remember that the so-called islamic state, now the richest terrorist group in the world, could not have prospered without the financial support of rich private donors from the gulf countries, to whom the governments turned a blind eye - something which this resolution does not emphasize. the resolution also 'welcomes the call by the united states for an international coalition against isil' and 'calls on all eu member states to assist the iraqi authorities ... including by providing military assistance'. this obstinacy not to take stock of all the military interventions with the united states at the head, not to see that the sources of crisis are multiplying, can only contribute to the chaos that reigns in the region.
madam president, i myself voted in favour of this resolution because it takes account of the impact on the catastrophic situation in libya and also highlights the problems we are facing, but which had to be mentioned, namely the circulation of arms, the presence of terrorist groups and the mass arrival of migrants on the italian coast. however, we would like to emphasize the role of france, my country, and nato, which plunged libya into this hell, and also to emphasize that libya is first and foremost the victim of this risky diplomacy - we cannot say more about europe and the west - and that, in the current situation, there is no lasting solution.
in writing. the situation in libya since the arab spring and the fall of dictator gaddafi remains very deteriorated. benghazi is hit almost daily by deadly clashes and many libyans and foreigners are leaving the country (150,000 between mid-may and late august according to the un). moreover, the democratic situation in the country is catastrophic. the parliament, which was elected in june last year and is recognised by the international community, is currently in tobruk for security reasons. on the other hand, in tripoli, the general national congress (gnc) considers that the current government is not legitimate and libya may therefore end up with two parliaments and two governments. the return to stability in libya will also prevent the mass arrival of asylum seekers and migrants on the maltese and italian coasts. the priority therefore remains the restoration of the political and military situation and it is essential that the eu supports the mediation efforts currently being carried out by the united nations on the ground. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in libya. the violence generated by the conflict has led to thousands of refugees fleeing the country, creating a catastrophic and difficult to manage humanitarian situation, including the mass arrival of migrants and refugees in italy and malta. the motion recognizes the house of representatives elected in june 2014 as the legitimate representative of the libyan people in their political transition from the gaddafi regime. the european union thus wishes to promote stability and democracy so that libyan citizens can live in security, in compliance with international law and human rights. the proliferation of weapons in the country is a threat to regional stability and international security, as is the presence of terrorist groups linked to al-qaeda that must be combated.
in writing. in libya, the security, political and humanitarian situation has deteriorated very seriously. that is why i supported the european parliament's call for all stakeholders to end the violence, to engage in a national dialogue in order to build a democratic state based on respect for human rights and the rule of law. with this vote, i also wanted to draw attention to the dual threat posed by the libyan crisis to our continent: on the one hand, the increase in migratory pressure at the union's external borders, and on the other, the presence of terrorist groups linked to al-qaeda on its territory.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption on 18 september 2014 of the resolution on the situation in libya. the return to sustainable security and political stability will inevitably require the establishment of an inclusive national dialogue between the libyan parties and the restoration of credibility to the political process. it is in this context that we call on all national actors to recognize the legitimacy of the only parliament that emerged from the elections of 25 june. we therefore ask the commission and the eeas to focus their support on strengthening the state and the institutions. the mediation efforts of neighbouring countries or the united nations and their new special representative should also be encouraged. parliament also expressed concern at the impact of the deterioration of governance in libya on regional and european security. in the chaos that continues to claim hundreds of victims and displaced persons every day, a significant number of migrants fall prey to smugglers and traffickers, with the tragic end that we unfortunately all too often experience. it is time for the european union to have a genuine migration policy, including by strengthening the synergies between the eu's internal and external policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on libya which supports the libyan central government and calls for an end to violence between the various factions and for the protection of the civilian population. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. - i am a co-signer of this resolution, which is justified by the sharp deterioration of the security, political and humanitarian situation in libya in recent weeks. every day libya sinks deeper into chaos as rival militias clash, some of them linked to extremely dangerous islamist armed groups. at the political level, it is essential to avoid the emergence of two competing parliaments as a result of the non-recognition of the tobruk parliament by the general national congress. the eu should therefore support un initiatives to foster constructive dialogue between the different parties and support the strengthening of the libyan state in the context of the post-gaddafi democratic transition process. it should also contribute to the reform of the security sector in libya to combat terrorism and take the necessary measures on migration in cooperation with libya and regional actors. as requested at the cairo conference on 25 august 2014, the involvement of neighbouring countries is essential to ensure stability in libya.
in writing. - libya is a place of militia fighting. many civilians are subjected to abuses simply because of their ethnicity or religious affiliation. but as is often the case, this text does not seek to establish any responsibility for the manufacture of this chaos. what about the nato intervention which went beyond the un mandate (to protect the people) by bringing down the regime, and moreover without any strategy for the future? the proposals are condolences, wishes and formulae full of good feelings, without any kind of concrete solution. the text calls on the parliament elected in june to assume its role, in particular to provide the country with a constitution, without specifying that this parliament, which had no influence on the country for a long time, recently took refuge on a ferry in the tobruk bay... in these circumstances, the mere mention of nato as a 'partner' to help the libyan leaders build state security forces capable of restoring security leads me to vote against this text whose authors are pitiful copyists of north american propaganda.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the escalation of violence against civilian populations and legitimate institutions in libya. the european parliament calls for the restoration of the rule of law in the country and the bringing before the competent courts of all those guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity. the current situation in libya has important effects on europe and particularly on the migratory pressure. europe and the member states must play an important role in restoring peace, in order to ensure security in the country and to stop the migration at our borders as soon as possible.
in writing. the resolution on the situation in libya is biased on a crucial point: it makes no mention of the interventions of nato and eu countries which have unquestionably led to the current destabilisation of the country and its fracturing along ethnic lines. although the resolution contains an important point on irregular immigration and asylum seekers, which is of course an issue on which the eu must play a major role, the resolution seems to me to obscure europe's responsibility for the situation in the country, and does not deal with the root of the problem with sufficient force. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the deteriorating situation in libya. it is therefore the responsibility of the european parliament to point the finger at the atrocities taking place there in order to arouse the interest of all the actors of the international community and to encourage any initiative aimed at promoting peace in that country.
in writing. - the current situation in libya is worrying. despite the parliamentary elections in june 2014 and the formation of a government, the situation in libya remains critical from a political, economic and security perspective. i supported this resolution so that the european union can strengthen its commitment to stability and the transition to democracy in libya. the use of violence against civilians is unacceptable and a ceasefire between the various parties must be established as soon as possible. it is also important that the european union acts in coordination with the international community, in particular unamid and the recently appointed united nations special envoy for libya, bernardino leon.
in writing. - the resolution on the gaza war and the situation between israel and palestine welcomes the ceasefire brokered by egypt in august. it is essential that the two sides continue to dialogue to ensure that this ceasefire is sustainable and to achieve a lasting resolution of the conflict. the european union recalls the 1967 borders and the creation of two states with jerusalem as their common capital. the european union must strengthen its support and diplomatic, humanitarian and political assistance for a viable long-term solution in the middle east.
in writing. with this vote on the situation in israel and palestine, we recall that the european union's priority following the ceasefire is to respond to the humanitarian crisis there. an adequate water supply is urgently needed. the european union cannot simply welcome the ceasefire agreement brokered by egypt. it must also commit itself to participating in the reconstruction process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the conflict in gaza which welcomes the ceasefire agreement reached through egyptian mediation and calls for the rapid reconstruction of gaza. the resolution was adopted by a large majority. i welcome the outcome of this vote.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european parliament has supported this joint resolution on the situation in israel and palestine after the gaza war, in which meps welcome the ceasefire agreement reached on 26 august 2014 through the mediation of egypt and call for the rapid deployment of emergency humanitarian aid to the gaza strip. the resolution also calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region. in this context, the resolution calls on the european union to assist in the reconstruction of gaza and to participate in the international donors' conference to be held on 12 october 2014.
in writing. - the joint resolution before us is too timid in its condemnation of israel's illegal actions and marks a retreat from the european parliament's positions on the settlement of the israeli-palestinian conflict. this text puts the two belligerents on an equal footing, while everything from human losses to material destruction to the causes of this conflict, points to a blatant imbalance in favor of israel. the absence of a clear condemnation of the massive israeli bombing, the collective punishment it inflicts on an entire people, the continuing siege of the gaza strip, its responsibility for the worsening of the situation and its parallel continuation of settlement in the west bank, cannot be justified. that is why, in the absence of sufficient support for our amendments which were intended to correct these deliberate errors, i have preferred not to support a text which absolves israel of its responsibilities and refuses to call into question european diplomacy in relation to the many abuses and distortions of international law perpetrated by israel.
in writing. - under the guise of a consensus that puts all violent entities on the same level, the text takes the side of the extreme right-wing israeli government against which absolutely no sanctions are proposed. none of the very important means of pressure which the eu has at its disposal vis-à-vis israel is being used to force its government to stop the massacre. i vote against this grossly aligned, hypocritical and unjust resolution. the authors of this document would have had a better chance of drawing inspiration from the brave dissidents from the israeli military and services who denounce the role of their government instead of playing pontius pilate.
in writing. - i voted against the individual resolutions but in favour of the joint resolution. the commission is calling for reconciliation between the palestinians, hamas and the palestinian authority, so that they can work together to rebuild gaza. a peaceful, political and lasting solution must be found without further delay. the european union must contribute to a comprehensive and sustainable long-term solution to the crisis, strengthening the security, well-being and prosperity of both palestinians and israelis. it is imperative that the palestinian authority, the european union, egypt and jordan take joint action to ensure that terrorist groups in gaza and the west bank cannot rearm, resume rocket manufacture and tunnel construction.
in writing. despite some positive points, the amendments our group proposed to make the resolution relevant such as ending the blockade of gaza, ending israeli settlement, holding an inquiry into israeli war crimes, or requesting international protection for gaza were not adopted, and i have therefore voted against this text which is content with wishful thinking and empty statements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the events in gaza, on which it is imperative to shed light and condemn the violence. the european union must become an international player, equal to its status as the world's leading donor to palestine.
in writing. - the european parliament has just adopted a resolution on the situation in israel and the palestinian territories following the gaza war. the resolution also calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region. in the immediate aftermath of the signing of the ceasefire on 26 august 2014, priority must be given to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of gaza, as well as the delivery of humanitarian aid. the eu must not only participate in this emergency humanitarian effort, but also play a more active role in achieving a lasting peace between israelis and palestinians. moving towards peace does not mean returning to the status quo before the conflict. working for peace requires lifting the blockade of gaza, disarming the gaza strip and stopping the settlement. parliament also reiterated its support for the policy pursued by mahmoud abbas towards reconciliation between the palestinians, which is a necessary condition for peace and dialogue. it is time to open a new chapter of peace to allow the two-state solution to finally become a reality.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution tabled by my group in the gue/ngl but against the one tabled by the ppe, s&d, ecr and alde groups. our resolution called for the release of palestinian political prisoners, a ban on the export of european arms to israel and a substantial increase in the funds allocated to unrwa (united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east). a very large majority of the members of this parliament even voted against requests that israel reimburse eu-funded projects destroyed by its army, that the member states apply the guidelines on the ban on the import of products from the colonies, and that a committee of inquiry be set up into the human rights violations committed during the last conflict. the resolution finally adopted by the european parliament says not a word about the blockade imposed by israel on gaza, turning it into a veritable open-air prison; not a word about the expansion of illegal settlements; not a word about the war crimes committed by the israeli army.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution to exclude fiji from the group of acp (african, caribbean and pacific) countries which enjoy trade advantages in their trade with the eu. indeed, fiji had made progress in the process of negotiating an association agreement with the eu, which made it eligible for these transitional trade benefits. i welcome the rejection of this resolution.
in writing. - an economic partnership agreement was signed between fiji and the european union in 2009. on 17 july 2014, the self-proclaimed president of fiji informed the european union that he had decided to implement the interim partnership agreement. the commission authorised that implementation by delegated act on 25 july 2014. the report proposes to review the commission's decision since the present military dictatorship in fiji has no legitimacy to take a decision on the application and ratification of the agreement. i would add that the sole purpose of these agreements is to plunder the resources of the countries concerned and that they contribute to the economic and political destabilization of the region. that is why i am voting for it.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal to continue to exclude fiji as a trading partner. the population must not be held hostage to the political situation in their country. as a partner of the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific), the european union must seek to normalize relations with all the members in order to create stable conditions that will promote the economic and political development of the various regions.
in writing. - i opposed the european parliament resolution on the economic partnership agreement with fiji because such a rejection, as proposed by certain political groups in the european parliament, would risk inflicting a double penalty on a country on the eve of democratic elections. this country is in the process of development and is dependent on the european union for trade. it must therefore be able to continue to benefit from trade advantages specific to access to the european union market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint gue/ngl/greens/efa resolution, of which i was a co-signer, on the eu's economic partnership agreement with the republic of fiji. seven african countries (botswana, cameroon, côte d'ivoire, ghana, kenya, namibia and swaziland) and the republic of fiji are at risk of losing their preferential access to the european market, which they enjoyed as acp states, as from 1 october. the republic of fiji, unlike the other seven, signed an interim economic partnership agreement with the eu in 2004. since 2006, fiji has been ruled by a military dictatorship following a coup d'état. the resolution was intended to remind the gue/ngl that this dictatorial regime has no legitimacy to ratify an international agreement, which should be considered null and void and contrary to the democracy and human rights clauses of the cotonou agreements.
mr president, the conference of presidents has planned to call first the draft budget for 2015 and then amending budget no 2 for 2014 for the budget debate. i fully agree with all the coordinators of the committee on budgets that i would like to see us reverse the order of the discussions and deal first with the amending budget for 2014 and then with the draft budget for 2015. the main budgetary debate will certainly be on the 300 billion in the programme announced by president juncker, but for the time being the issue at stake in the budgetary debate is the unpaid. over the years, since 2010, we have seen the number of unpaid debts rise steadily: 5 billion in 2010, 11 billion in 2011, 16 billion in 2012, 23 billion in 2013 and perhaps 30 billion by the end of 2014. it is a sneaky debt that is emerging and we cannot alter the authority of the european union by allowing the unpaid to progress. in these circumstances, we would like to test the council's intention by first referring to the draft amending budget for 2014, as they are an opportunity to stabilise this debt. at the trilogue last thursday we set out this principle in full agreement with the coordinators: first the amending budgets for 2014 and then for 2015. that is why i hope that we can reverse the call for papers on tuesday, during the debate, and on wednesday, during the vote, that is to say first the 2014 amendments and then the 2015 budget.
mr president, i did not quite understand what we have just put on the agenda. there was a proposal from one group and a counterproposal from another group. you only voted once, and it was not very clear. could you explain to us what we have voted on for the agenda?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the south of france has been hit hard by floods for the 15th consecutive year. in 15 years, 15 major disasters have killed 80 people and caused more than 500 million euros in damage. systematically, the same causes are identified, followed by the same effects. the urgency of the disaster must also be taken into account, and the files and procedures are cumbersome. i have only one question: what are you planning to do to simplify these procedures and to ensure that funds are released quickly to help people and communities?
mr president, even when prevention efforts or risk management efforts have been in place for years, disasters can occur. in september and october last year, three exceptional rains struck languedoc-roussillon and the midi-pyrénées. in the gard department alone, 147 people were rescued, more than half of them by helicopter, which shows that civil security has intervened. unfortunately, five deaths are to be deplored. most public facilities and communities were damaged. the damage is colossal. agricultural losses are also considerable. the damage to property is estimated at nearly 100 million euros. the european union solidarity fund for natural disasters was set up during the severe weather that hit europe in 2002 to provide support for victims. with my colleague, mr franck proust, we want him to intervene, and to intervene quickly, to show that europe is not just a matter of regulations or constraints but also of genuine solidarity.
in writing. after the terrible floods in our northern languedoc region, i wanted parliament to take note of this news. i fought for us to have a debate on the situation in the affected areas. from the first day as first deputy mayor of nîmes, i was on the ground with my fellow citizens in distress. i can testify that some of them have had their lives literally washed away by the raging waters. i remain convinced that in such catastrophic situations europe has its place, both in responding to the emergency and in the environmental challenges that need to be addressed. that is the importance of this debate.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, time is running out, there is urgency! what opportunities have been lost since august! remember, mr. borg, we were together before the envi committee, and we told you how urgent it was. it is true that we did not find an ear as attentive as we might have wished. the french organization doctors without borders believes that the states have joined a kind of global coalition of inaction. this is the war we must declare on the ebola virus! in addition to the 180 million euros provided by the european union, you must be able to give us a programme of measures to be taken in west africa! we need you to tell us tonight - after the appointment this afternoon of a european coordinator by the council of ministers for european affairs - how we can, with this coordinator who will be appointed in the coming days, put in place a european mechanism to prevent this virus from spreading in europe. because, as we know, the director-general of who said recently, if nothing is done, more than 20,000 people in west africa and europe will die from ebola. we therefore expect you to give us urgent answers, worthy and commensurate with the stakes of this issue and this war.
mr president, madam commissioner, the gravity of the threat and the urgency with which we are faced today require us to act responsibly, humanely and in solidarity. and yet we have taken a long time to react to a crisis that, we naively and proudly thought, did not directly threaten us. but the crises on the other side of the world are now our business and our responsibility. globalization has gone through this. it took one death in the united states and a few reported cases in europe for a sudden spate of crisis meetings, summits, alarming editorials and psychosis. what are we really waiting for? i simply hope that the european coordinator we should have will be able to coordinate the means to stop the epidemic and protect our fellow citizens. but the primary emergency is not here, it is there, on the ground, because a humanitarian and economic crisis has already added to the health crisis! there are countless orphans left behind, or sick people who are abandoned and stigmatized, and no one wants to be near them. in the face of this crisis, both material and human resources are needed. we also need medical personnel to be sent to the scene.
mr president, commissioner, if i may believe the french press, you are discovering that the planet and, a fortiori, europe lacks a crisis management system. this is exactly what our group alone denounced in this house a month ago. europe's unpreparedness is as shocking as the epidemic itself, as this episode, which affected nearly 10,000 people and killed 5,000, highlights the consequences of uncontrolled human movement. it was the closing of its borders that just saved nigeria, temporarily or, i hope, permanently. what about vector controls when vector controls for vectors such as mosquitoes are almost impossible? for example, despite advances in medicine, nearly 627,000 people died of malaria in 2012 out of 207 million infected. this is a pandemic. what about the global epidemic of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis? what do we do tomorrow if a spanish flu-like pandemic breaks out? it is urgent that europe finally take up one of its few positive prerogatives and ensure public health on our continent.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, thank you for your very informed and fair speech in more than one way. i would remind the council that there are six commandments to remember. i'll give you the short version, you won't get ten, you'll get six. but remember these six commandments for successful youth employment integration programmes. the first commandment is to combat unqualified exits from training systems. a large proportion of young people who leave training - almost 20% - have no qualifications and are directly unemployed. this is the first area where you really need to make an effort: fighting against unqualified outputs. the second commandment is to modernise training in general, not just vocational training. we are in a situation today where young engineers are also unemployed. it is training that must be modernised, and linked to the world of work in a much more operational way. the third commandment is to give full play to apprenticeship, rotation and traineeships. the traineeships have been diverted throughout europe, and apprenticeship and rotation are considered to be less important training in most european countries. but these are essential training courses and they are a form of thinking for young people. the fourth commandment is to have a 'new skills, new jobs' vision. we have been working on this, and you know very well that in the coming years, by 2020, 15 percent of low-skilled jobs will still be gone. we must prepare for it, or we will continue to run after time. the fifth commandment is to have not only knowledge but also skills and abilities. finally, the sixth commandment for the council is to set up operational programmes. while some heads of state or government were adamant about abolishing the esf, i see that it is still the main lever for the youth guarantee today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a summit on employment in europe, yes, but for what purpose? after berlin and paris, the milan summit, to admit the obvious that the employment of young people must be europe's priority, at the risk of turning young people away from the european union. another summit to break down open doors but above all to break our economy again and again with deadly measures for youth employment, such as lowering the cost of labour or market liberalisation. europe continues tirelessly to deal with the effects of unemployment rather than tackling the causes of this endemic unemployment which affects all layers of our society, especially the youngest. to save jobs in europe, we should rather protect ourselves from globalisation, free trade and unbridled liberalism; we should protect ourselves from cheap products from all over the world which ruin our agricultural and industrial production; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to help our enterprises, particularly smes and small firms, which account for 80 to 90% of paid employment. for the employment of young people in particular, we should give a new value to manual work, reinstate apprenticeship as the sure means of obtaining a qualification, reform vocational training, use tutoring in our companies. i say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that europe is no longer a chance for young people who are fleeing to other continents.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a summit for nothing. this is how many media outlets have described the situation at the time of the milan summit, not only before but unfortunately afterwards. it is also in this spirit, it seems, that a number of partners and participants in this summit left, thinking that this summit had served no purpose. however, the issue, which concerns us all, is crucial for europeans and is obviously crucial for the unemployed who are concerned and particularly for young people. i had simply thought, perhaps very naively, that this summit would at least serve to put the terrible problem of youth unemployment, which is our top priority, at the top of the list. but the tools we have put in place, and we have been talking about since 9 o'clock this morning, are slow to get going and are not being applied. only two member states have actually implemented the youth guarantee. how is this possible when 24% of our young people are unemployed in europe? how can we imagine that the commission does not push the member states to implement this system which it often talks about and which is not put into practice? we are not going to be able to do anything about it, and we are not going to be able to do anything about it. so, beyond the financial aspects we have discussed, beyond the tools, we must move the whole system: mobility, the correspondence between studies and the demand for employment, infrastructure, support, especially for smes, which are the only ones to create jobs. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, for us the challenges are precisely both the urgency of the response and this idea of responsibility and solidarity towards the new generation to avoid it being a lost generation, as it quite often calls itself. it's our responsibility. it is european and must not lead us to talk about it, but to put a global european will into action, by cooperating, by making progress on all fronts (education, economy, mobility, infrastructure) and by choosing our priorities.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i have just heard our colleague denounce big business, the private sector, and say that more government intervention is needed. but i did not quite understand what concrete solutions it proposed to promote youth employment, if not the use, perhaps, as in france, of public contracts, but precarious, which means that after two years our young people are again unemployed. i would therefore be very happy to hear the solutions proposed by our colleague, rather than systematic criticism.
in writing. this third high-level meeting (a whole programme!) will be an opportunity to exchange experience in raising the employment rate, encouraging entrepreneurship and setting up an instrument to combat unemployment. the implementation of the youth guarantee, which is presented here as a miracle cure, is only a palliative and does not provide a lasting way of integrating young people into the labour market. five million young people are currently unemployed in europe and €6 billion is being spent on the initiative (€1200 per young person). too little for tangible results or too much for the uselessness of the measure, everyone will judge... on the other hand, you talk about solving the problem of unemployment and reviving economic activity in europe by implementing different policies, even though the eu has passed the so-called 'posted workers' directive which creates real competition in our national labour markets and creates a frightening social dumping. is that not a profound contradiction?
in writing. the european union organised the umpteenth european employment conference at the beginning of october. the same pontiffs and wishes... youth employment would thus be the top priority for the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly. of course, it's better to say it... we have understood that this conference was really just another communication operation. the eu with its ultra-liberal dogmatism is the very cause of the explosion of unemployment in europe! and what about the so-called european directive on posted workers which has created a terrible competition in the labour market in france, germany, italy... and what about the fact that the eu is always demanding more immigration even as unemployment and impoverishment explode! in reality, without a return to reasoned protectionism, without the re-establishment of national borders, without the challenge of the ultra-liberal dogma (free and undistorted competition), national economies will remain weak and be permanently impacted by the devastating effects of globalisation and zero growth, and we will soon sink into recession.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president of the council, why are we here today? sometimes, when reading this long document - and i thank the rapporteurs for their synthesis work - it seems as if everything and everything is being put into it. it is a bit sad, because when we introduced the european semester into the six-pack - i was one of the rapporteurs at the time, along with other colleagues here today - we had two objectives in mind. the first was to make national parliaments aware that we had a common good: european prosperity, the single currency. it is something that europeans have in common and yet it is something that is decided at two different levels. the debates that exist in countries like mine, like italy at the moment, or even in germany from another angle, clearly show that this sense of interdependence and of learning - as we say in english - of common rules is unfortunately not always present. our second objective was to facilitate the implementation of the commitments made by the states to benefit from the best economic policy. this was noted by several of the auditors, including the commissioner. i think we need to be aware of the stakes. i would simply say that we must be careful not to turn the exercise we have done here in this parliament into a self-centred exercise in which each political group tries to add what is dear to its heart. the real challenge is to inscribe in the national debates as broad an acceptance as possible of the fact that the single currency is a common good, that european prosperity is a common good, that the commissioner is working in the general interest of europe, that he is not a schoolmaster who comes to give us lessons and that he is simply doing what he has been asked to do. therefore, commissioner, go back to brussels with the feeling that the members here are asking you to take up your responsibilities - the italian presidency, i believe, is taking up its responsibilities - to ensure that the member states respect the commitments they have made and that european growth does not come from sterile debate but from concrete actions in favour of our young people, in particular. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, you do me the greatest honour, madam, in thinking that i alone will have the solution. i can give you my feeling, nothing more. i feel that this parliament has already done a great deal. firstly, it has incorporated the european semester into legislation and has given full weight to the dialogue with national parliaments. secondly, we questioned the troika members in the previous parliament and put them under pressure as far as the law allowed. thirdly, we have made a report, which has enabled members of parliament to visit countries covered by the programme. of course, all this is not enough. personally - and whatever mr terho says - i believe that if we had a truly federal europe, we could go much further. it is precisely because europe is not federal at all and because it leaves member states - without always assuming their responsibilities - considerable room for manoeuvre, sometimes in defiance of common rules, that we are facing these difficulties today. let's not be caricatured, let's all try to be constructive. the compromise must not, however, lead us away from the idea that we have a huge responsibility towards the youth of europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr. lucke, you don't know me that well. not yet. the idea, i could really only say here, the liberal ideas have been watered down: that's sausage, if i may say so. it's really sausage. i'm out of my mind, and it's bullshit. i'm sorry about that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this goes far, far beyond these petty partisan controversies.
mr president, first of all i would like to pay tribute to a great french businessman who died last night, mr christophe de margerie, chairman of total, and to express my condolences to his family. the report contains a lot of incantations about growth, employment and structural reforms. however, did it take months of reflection on macroprudential criteria to reach such banal and premature conclusions? since 2011, the european semester has been aimed at harmonising the economic policies of the eu countries, but with what results? a "euro divergence" between germany and most of the eurozone countries, a "euro divergence" of the unemployment rate in the eurozone countries, inflation rates and nominal borrowing rates that discredit your utopian optimal currency zone. the only convergence: growth, still close to zero in the eurozone before, alas, the next structural recession by 2015 or 2016. to top it all off, 11 out of 28 countries are in the excessive deficit procedure, not to mention the budget of the european union. what solutions do the epp and the s&d propose in this document? no more europe, of course. if this does not work, then there is not enough of a federalist europe, as there was in the old days of the politburo for communism. your recipes are still the same, ultra-liberal, but they will lead to the same result: social austerity for the people. it is therefore clear that your european semester instrument is ultimately useless. none of your desperate attempts to coordinate the economic policies of the economic and monetary union to restore growth and employment will work. worse, the troika's suicidal austerity policy will soon plunge us all into widespread bankruptcy.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to paragraphs 122 and 123 of this resolution on the european semester and to paragraph 7 of the opinion of the committee on budgets on the question of member states' contributions to the union budget. these contributions are integrated into the expenditure of the states and add to their public deficit, even though we all know that 95% of the european budget is directed towards investment. our states and our union are sinking dangerously into recession, under the weight of an absurd rule which prevents them from creating investment margins. the european parliament has repeatedly voted against this, regretting that the member states' share in the union budget is included in the calculation of the structural deficit. ladies and gentlemen, we must give back the budgetary margins to our european governments. the exclusion of national contributions from the calculation of the public deficit would be a first breath of fresh air. this will not relieve us of the need to find our own resources to make our community budget an autonomous instrument, finally free of national egoisms and intended for investment in growth and employment.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, europe and, in particular, the euro area, is facing a situation which is quite exceptional in its scale, its duration and its isolation on a world scale, where recovery is still a long way off. the basic indicators of economic health are all in the red, whatever the strategy applied by the member states, mr hökmark. we are seeing near-zero inflation, weak growth and unemployment, which is still high, first among the most vulnerable. the reality is that we cannot dismiss the observations and recommendations of all the experts and the imf. in comparison, europe must implement the 300 billion we want. but we cannot do this simply as a rearrangement of the structural funds or as a proposal which would be based solely on private investment or which would be totally diluted over time. that is why, mr katainen, we are counting on the next commission to have a real mobilization, a declination on the ground so that these 300 billion will allow europe to reorient itself on the path of the ecological and digital transition. this will also require accepting a shift away from a logic of fair return and towards an asymmetrical approach which takes account of the reality of the situation in the member states and the economic situation in both the euro area and the european union.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion. i would also like to point out that to date more than 2 300 workers have not found work and are unemployed, and that this plan is designed to help them find work. i therefore thank the members for their willingness to approve it.
in writing. - this application for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain concerns the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 142 enterprises in the manufacture of metal products in the autonomous community of valencia (communidad valenciana), spain. the application concerns 633 workers made redundant, 300 of whom are beneficiaries. the purpose of this appropriation is to mobilise eur 1 019 184. faced with a global economic and financial crisis, spain is hard hit by the decline in demand and production of metals. in this region alone, the number of jobs in the metalworking sector decreased by 43%, from 35 868 in 2008 to 20 873 in 2012. in view of this situation, i have decided to support this request.
in writing. - parliament decided to accept the request for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund from the steel companies of the comunidad valenciana in spain to help the employees of this company, which is severely affected by the employment consequences of globalisation. the dismissed employees will receive training aimed at reintegration into the labour market and job search. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. - this text will enable redundant spanish steel workers to benefit from a range of services which will help them to return to work. they will not only be offered vocational training but also incentives to start their own businesses.
in writing. - it is important to support employees who suddenly lose their jobs as a result of a global financial and economic crisis. we must help them to find their way back to work. this aid of eur 1,02 million will help the many employees in the production of metal products in the municipality of valencia in spain to return to the labour market and find a job that is appropriate to their skills, whereas from 2008 to 2013 43% of jobs were lost in the region.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the request by spain for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of redundancies in metal products companies in the province of valencia. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this financial aid amounting to just over one million euros.
in writing. the globalisation fund is doing its damaging job. instead of helping the workers, it encourages the shareholders and the states to submit to the liberalism of the moment. the application concerns 633 workers made redundant in 142 enterprises in the manufacture of metal products in the spanish region comunidad valenciana . the spanish authorities argue that the economic crisis has had a severe impact on the manufacturing sector across the european union: between april 2008 and april 2009, industrial production in the eu fell by more than 22 percentage points. but without questioning the economic model which is the cause of europe's de-industrialisation and without promoting the only effective remedy: solidarity protectionism. the spanish government and the eu treat the symptoms without ever addressing the causes of the disease. i abstain in order not to deprive spanish workers of this fund.
in writing. spain requested eur 1 019 184 from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) to support the reintegration into the labour market and training of 300 of the 633 workers made redundant in 142 enterprises in the metal products manufacturing sector in the valencian community. these redundancies only exacerbate the fragility of the labour market in this part of spain. it is recalled that the production of metal products in spain decreased by 36,6% between 2008 and 2013 due to the decrease in demand from the shipbuilding and automotive industries. it should also be noted that the unemployment rate in this country is very high and that the youth unemployment rate is one of the highest in the euro area. spain and its people, who have been affected by the crisis for a long time, must not only cope with the social damage caused by the ultra-liberal dogma put in place by the european union but also with the austerity measures imposed by brussels. for these reasons i voted in favour of granting this aid to spanish workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of eur 1 019 184 for 300 former steel workers in the region of valencia (spain). as a member of a steel-producing region which has not been spared by the crisis, i am very familiar with the economic situation of the sector and the dramatic social consequences. the eu's crude steel production increased from 206,9 million tonnes in 2006 to 177,6 million tonnes in 2011. this corresponds to the decrease in the european market share in the sector from 16,6% in 2006 to 11,7% in 2011. at the same time, the chinese market share increased from 33.7% to 45%. i would stress that the mobilisation of these funds is a timely and necessary response, but we must implement structural measures quickly to remedy the decline in european production.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because of the importance, in these times of economic crisis, of eu support for workers whose businesses have suffered particularly. the metal products sector in the comunidad valenciana has been hit hard and it is absolutely necessary to give the population the means to reconvert.
in writing. - i regret this perverse system by which the european union, on the one hand, destroys the economic environment and, on the other, pays out a few subsidies which do not sufficiently compensate for the difficulties that its policy has generated. i do not hesitate to support job creators, but i regret that the union is putting them in a position where they have to ask for help to survive. when will we have a rational policy that protects businesses and workers through controlled borders? taking a few measures to reduce the effects when we keep aggravating the causes makes no sense.
in writing. - the large fluctuations in the international metalworking market combined with the financial crisis led to massive redundancy measures. i therefore vote in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund requested by the valencian community, in the hope of increasing the retraining of workers made redundant.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund is designed to provide assistance to people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes. i voted in favour of granting it to the valencian community. the steel industry in the autonomous community was hit hard by the crisis: between 2008 and 2012, it suffered a 43% decrease in its employment (14,995 jobs), 8 percentage points more than the national average for this type of activity. more than €1 million will be provided to finance training and to promote entrepreneurship and job search for 300 former employees in the sector, and i welcome this.
in writing. - under the european globalisation adjustment fund, belgium submitted an application egf/2013/012 following the redundancies of 512 people, of which 479 were affected by the measures concerning the ford-werke site in genk and 10 suppliers of ford genk. as ford is the largest employer in the province of limburg, these redundancies will have serious consequences for the local economy. in addition, the closure of the ford site is likely to lead to two further waves of redundancies (650 and 4 000 jobs lost according to the belgian authorities). the european car industry is facing serious difficulties in the face of unbridled globalisation and unfair competition from low-cost countries. in addition to the reduction in the union's market share in car production, the number of new cars sold in the union is also falling, with our manufacturers suffering a double blow. this sad fact is only the result of successive european policies, but the mobilisation of eur 570 945 under the egf will help the workers made redundant to train and reintegrate into the labour market, which is why i voted in favour of the request.
in writing. it is clear that car production in europe has fallen sharply. for example, in the context of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), belgium submitted the egf/2013/012 application following the redundancies of 479 people. the redundancies at ford-genk and at ten suppliers, for example, symbolise the decline of the european union's market share in car production, which is being burdened by unfair production costs and competition, and in the face of which the european institutions are hopelessly powerless. the concern is growing in the industrial world, where european workers are increasingly affected by unbridled globalisation and are struggling to find a job. the mobilisation of eur 570 945 from the egf will help redundant people to enter into appropriate training courses, which will facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i therefore voted in favour of this fund.
in writing. - the european parliament decided to approve the request to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at the ford genk assembly plant and at ten ford genk suppliers in belgium. i voted in favour of this action, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. - with the mobilisation of the egf, displaced workers in the belgian automobile industry will be able to benefit from job-search assistance and personalised support. these measures are particularly useful in speeding up their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. - it is important to support employees who suddenly lose their jobs as a result of a global financial and economic crisis. we must help them to find their way back to work. this aid of eur 570 945 will support the 479 ford genk employees who were made redundant in belgium in their return to employment.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the request by belgium for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund concerning redundancies at the assembly plant and at ford-genk suppliers. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this financial aid amounting to over eur 570 000.
in writing. the fund for aid to globalisation is well aware of its destructive role. instead of helping the workers, it encourages the shareholders and the states to submit to the liberalism of the moment. the application concerns 512 redundancies at the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh in genk and at ten suppliers of ford genk in belgium. according to the belgian authorities, the difficult economic situation of the car manufacturing sector in the european union is mainly due to a steady decline in sales of new cars in the union as a result of the economic crisis and structural overcapacity problems experienced by some manufacturers in several member states. these factors have led to plant closures and restructuring at several car manufacturers and their suppliers, resulting in a large number of job losses in the automotive sector in recent years. the world automobile industry has been undergoing major capitalist restructuring for several years now, thousands of employees have already suffered the consequences of plans to cut jobs and reduce activity, while the groups were making considerable profits. for the 2013 fiscal year, ford reported net profit of $7.15 billion, up 26%. i vote against this request for a shareholder's severance bonus.
in writing. the steady fall in new vehicle sales in the union has led the entire automotive industry in europe to a lasting economic slump. the automobile manufacturers responded to the crisis by ramping up new plant construction in countries with low-cost labor, leading to the closure of many production sites in western europe and plans for mass layoffs. it was in this particularly tense context that belgium requested eur 570 945 from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) to help with the conversion and training of 479 people made redundant at the ford-werke gmbh assembly site in genk. these redundancies have a serious impact on employment in the province of limburg, which is already affected by high unemployment and low skill levels. in addition, two new waves of redundancies are coming due to the planned closure of the ford genk site. in addition, the closure will have an impact on direct suppliers (for every 100 jobs lost at ford genk, 65 will be lost at direct and indirect suppliers in limburg). i voted for this fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text which will mobilise eur 570 945 for 512 former ford employees and for former employees of 10 of its suppliers. this aid is intended for the vocational reintegration of dismissed persons. europe has been experiencing an overall decline in car production since the start of the crisis. as evidence, the egf has been mobilised 17 times since 2007 to intervene in the automotive sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because of the importance, in these times of economic crisis, of eu support for workers whose businesses have suffered particularly. the automotive sector has been hit hard and is still undergoing major restructuring around the world. the reintegration of employees in this sector is absolutely necessary but difficult given the specialisation. the eu had to give the people the means to convert.
in writing. - i regret this perverse system by which the european union, on the one hand, destroys the economic environment and, on the other, pays out a few subsidies which do little to compensate for the difficulties its policy has generated. i do not hesitate to support job creators, but i regret that the union is putting them in a situation where they have to ask for help to survive. when will we have a rational policy that protects businesses and workers through controlled borders? taking a few measures to reduce the effects when we keep aggravating the causes makes no sense.
in writing. - the european union's efforts to deal with the mass redundancies must not be allowed to fade and must provide rapid and concrete solutions. i therefore vote in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund requested by genk, because of the redundancies at ford, then one of the largest employers in the province. however, i believe that, in view of the growing difficulties in the automobile sector, it is urgent to opt for a european industrial policy that creates stable jobs. to achieve this, europe must rely on automotive products, for which it has undeniable technological advances.
in writing. - the purpose of this application is to mobilise eur 911 934 for belgium following the dismissal of 939 workers at the carsid s.a. production site in marcinelle (one of the charleroi sections). the measure concerns 752 workers, with a view to reintegrating them into the labour market through training, retraining and individual support for job search. following a decrease in the union's share of crude steel production (from 17,1% in 2006 to 11,9% in 2011), some 280 000 workers lost their jobs in the metallurgical sector between 2008 and 2013 (- 20%). the steel industry is therefore hard hit in europe and unfair competition from certain countries such as china (its share in crude steel production has risen from 35.5% to 46.8% over the same period, an increase of +32%) is having serious consequences for employment in some regions. i therefore voted in favour of this text to support workers who are victims of globalisation.
in writing. - parliament decided to accept the request for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund from the metal manufacturing companies in belgium to help the employees of this company, which is heavily affected by the consequences of globalisation on employment. the redundancies of many carsid employees in belgium are due to increased global competition in the steel sector. the dismissed employees will receive training aimed at reintegration into the labour market and job search. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. - faced with redundancies in the steel industry, belgium has called on the european globalisation adjustment fund. the funds released must constitute effective and concrete supplementary aid for the workers made redundant. personalised services must provide them with real added value in order to support them in their efforts to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. - it is important to support employees who suddenly lose their jobs as a result of a global financial and economic crisis. we must help them to find their way back to work. the aid of eur 911 934 will enable redundant workers at carsid's crude steel production site in belgium to benefit from a personalised training programme to facilitate their return to work.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by belgium concerning redundancies in the crude steel company carsid sa near the city of charleroi. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this financial aid of almost eur 912 000.
in writing. the globalisation fund is playing its destructive role. instead of helping the workers, it encourages the shareholders and the states to join the social irresponsibility of the liberal frenzied. the request relates to 939 redundancies at the crude steel production site of carsid sa ('carsid') in belgium, of which 752 workers were affected by the measures co-financed by the egf. the belgian authorities argue that the economic crisis has had a significant impact on the manufacturing sector across the european union: in the eu-27, for example, between 2008 and 2013, some 280 000 workers lost their jobs in the metal industry. but it does not question the economic model which is the cause of europe's de-industrialisation, nor does it propose the only effective remedy: solidarity protectionism. the belgian government, like the eu, treats the symptoms without ever tackling the causes of the disease. i abstain in order not to deprive belgian workers of this fund.
in writing. belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund for 752 of the 939 persons made redundant following the closure of carsid s.a.'s production site in marcinelle (one of the charleroi sections). these redundancies are the concrete result of major structural changes in the steel industry in europe. the decrease in european production of crude steel from casting (-13,4% between 2006 and 2011) is thus directly linked to a decrease in demand in the automotive sector and in the construction sector. in the face of direct competition from low-cost countries (e.g. china and india), around 280 000 people lost their jobs in the european metal industry between 2008 and 2013. it should also be noted that southern hainaut (charleroi region) and the neighbouring regions are particularly affected by the decline in manufacturing activities, a phenomenon which makes the retraining of dismissed persons essential in order to regain employment. i voted in favour of this aid to co-finance individual training and retraining measures, so as not to deprive these victims of the benefits of globalisation and the ultra-liberalism of this fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text which provides for the mobilisation of eur 911 934 for former carsid employees in belgium. carsid produced steel slabs for processing at sites belonging to the duferco group in belgium. the production was mainly used in the construction, transport, automotive and equipment industries. all these sectors were hit hard by the crisis in europe and the company was unable to cope with the decline in orders. i hope that the european parliament will soon adopt a package of measures which will enable european companies to regain their competitiveness vis-à-vis foreign companies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because of the importance, in these times of economic crisis, of eu support for workers whose businesses have suffered particularly. the metal industry is a symbol of the great changes taking place in the organization of world trade; we know it all too well in france. it is therefore logical that the eu should help and give the people the means to reconvert.
in writing. - i regret this perverse system by which the european union, on the one hand, destroys the economic environment and, on the other, pays out a few subsidies which do little to compensate for the difficulties its policy has generated. i do not hesitate to support job creators, but i regret that the union is putting them in a situation where they have to ask for help to survive. when will we have a rational policy that protects businesses and workers through controlled borders? taking a few measures to reduce the effects when we keep aggravating the causes makes no sense.
in writing. - the steel sector is a sector severely affected by a large drop in demand in the union and by the variation in its prices at international level. the consequences are therefore very heavy for the employees, all the more so when, as in the charleroi region, the prospects for conversion are difficult. i therefore vote in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund, in particular to encourage business creation.
in writing. - the request concerns the mobilisation of eur 12 704 605 from the egf to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by peugeot citroën automobiles (psa). the commission has decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of the application of the rules on the free movement of goods laid down in article 93 (2) of the eec treaty. while global vehicle production increased by 44% between 2000 and 2012, production in western europe fell by 25%. the share of third countries such as china and turkey now reaches 47% of world production, compared with 15% in 2000. the european market is becoming saturated and unfair competition from these third countries is increasing, and our manufacturers are the first victims of this situation. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. in view of this, economic patriotism should prevail, for example by introducing targeted customs duties in the face of unfair international competition. i nevertheless voted in favour of this request in order to support workers who are victims of globalisation and ultra-liberal policies and to give them a chance to recover.
in writing. - the european parliament approved aid for psa employees made redundant at the sites of aulnay in the ile-de-france region and rennes in brittany. this financial aid will enable them to undergo training to reintegrate into the labour market and to find a job. i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund. the european and particularly french automobile sector is strongly affected by both the economic crisis and global competition. financial assistance from the european union was therefore fully justified and necessary.
in writing. - almost exactly one year ago today, the last vehicle left the psa plant in aulnay. affected by the decline in sales in europe and the lack of competitiveness of the french automobile industry, thousands of employees at the psa plants in aulnay and rennes were laid off. to cope with such an economic and social disaster, these employees will benefit from the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund amounting to eur 12.7 million. i welcome the vote on this text which will allow thousands of psa employees who have been made redundant to be better supported in their job search. the epp, and particularly the french delegation, was right to fight for the maintenance of this fund which the states wanted to abolish at one time.
in writing. on 25 april, following the restructuring plan of the psa company, france submitted a request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, which the european parliament approved this week. i voted in favour of this request for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is aimed at 2,357 workers made redundant. the emff helps workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis; it is a key tool by which the european union intervenes to help european citizens and a good example of european solidarity. as the member for the grand est constituency in france, i particularly approved this request because it concerned not only the employees of the rennes and aulnay sites but also 89 workers at the tremery site and 48 people at the metz site in lorraine, 202 people at the mulhouse site in alsace and 608 people at the sochaux site in franche comté: 4 sites in my constituency.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the answers are not just financial. they also have to go through a quality training offer adapted to the profiles of the employees. france must redouble its efforts in this area. however, i can only welcome the fact that the european union has shown solidarity by mobilising eur 12.7 million for the 2 357 employees of psa peugeot citroën. i now hope that this funding will make it possible to set up a personalised training programme for each psa employee so that everyone can find a job that suits their skills and that no one is deprived of the opportunity to look to the future with confidence.
in writing. - it is important to support employees who suddenly lose their jobs as a result of a global financial and economic crisis. we must help them to find their way back to work. the eur 12.7 million aid will enable the 2357 psa peugeot citroën employees who were made redundant in aulnay and rennes to benefit from a personalised training programme to re-enter the labour market and find a job that is commensurate with their skills.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the request by france for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the redundancies at peugeot citroën automobiles (psa). the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. the european union's aid of €12.7 million will help more than 2,300 french workers made redundant by psa to find new jobs. i welcome the adoption of this financial aid.
in writing. - after supporting it in the parliamentary committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of the globalisation adjustment fund (g.a.f.) to help former employees of the psa automobile industry in the aulnay and rennes sites with their reintegration into the workforce. the project financed provides for the creation of spaces for mobility and professional development, the provision of external experts and advisers, the organisation of thematic and information workshops, access to a large range of training courses, and the award of grants for the creation of enterprises. the european union will contribute 60% of the cost of a project of € 21 174 342 (€ 12 704 605). this is an example of concrete action by the european union in favour of employment. i must, however, regret that france does not make sufficient use of these european funds.
in writing. - the european union has a globalisation adjustment fund (gef) to mitigate the effects of relocations and the crisis by financing training and conversion aid. the request to mobilise this fund concerns former employees of psa's rennes and aulnay sites. a budget of eur 12.7 million is to finance up to 60% of retraining programmes, personalised assistance, training, aid for setting up businesses and training leave beyond 4 months paid by the company for 2 357 former employees. as a member of the committee on social affairs, i have a say in every single application for the egf. in this review, i make sure that the aid we give goes only to the workers so as not to relieve the companies of their social obligations. the commission notes that the psa group's shareholders are not in a position to take a position on the restructuring plan. i therefore voted for this additional aid, but i maintain my demand for increased control of the use of these funds to ensure that they benefit only the workers.
in writing. the globalisation fund is a severance bonus. instead of helping the workers, it encourages the shareholders and the states in their social irresponsibility. the request concerns 2357 of the 6120 workers made redundant at psa for a total amount of eur 12 704 605 from the fund for france. the closures of factories in aulnay-sous-bois and rennes are not justified by the lack of profitability or by the decline of the french automobile industry, which has been recovering for 18 months. the psa group's profit margin was eur 477 million for the first half of 2014. the result of years of shameless pursuit of ever higher rates of return by the main shareholders of the peugeot family, who are tax exiles in switzerland. the commission considers that the measures in question are imputable to the state and that they are imputable to the state. the aim is to make taxpayers pay for the financial consequences of the decisions of rentier and irresponsible shareholders. instead of randomly distributing a few pence to employees, it would be better to have ambitious industrial policies that allow the revival of activity and ecological planning. i vote against this request for a severance bonus.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) was set up by the eu to enable the retraining of workers affected by relocations and/or the economic crisis. last april, france submitted an application for aid from the egf for 2 357 employees of the psa group, the amount of which was set at eur 12 704 605. this request for co-financing follows the closure of the aulnay site and the restructuring of the rennes site, which resulted in the dismissal of 6 120 workers. the french car industry is suffering the full economic consequences of the ultra-liberal dogma and free and undistorted competition demanded by brussels and applied with submission by successive governments of the right and left in france. for example, between 2000 and 2012, french car manufacturers saw their sales of new vehicles in europe fall significantly, which led to a significant decline in production and restructuring plans in france. although i think this egf shows the eu's cynicism, i voted for this report, considering it a way of recovering part of the €20 billion that france pays to europe every year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text which will mobilise more than €12 million for some of the workers made redundant by psa in brittany and ile de france. the french automotive industry has experienced a significant decline since the 2008 crisis. the government i was in in france had taken a series of measures to support the sector. since the changeover, no major structural reforms have been undertaken and the social consequences have been severe. i regret that the french socialist rapporteur is taking advantage of this important text to start a controversy. i also denounce the rapporteur's desire to make the procedure for mobilising the egf more difficult. the strength of this fund is that it allows relatively rapid mobilisation of aid for redundant workers. the rapporteur wants to increase the number of consultations before the submission of the budget, which will inevitably lead to a slowdown in the procedure. this is an anti-social idea and does not take into account the emergency situation of the displaced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which makes it possible to mobilise just over 12 million euros for the 2300 workers made redundant at psa. the automobile sector, and in particular the french sector, is still suffering from the crisis and there is a need to help workers in the sector to convert. in the face of the social consequences of the crisis, it was unthinkable that the eu should not act: it has done so!
in writing. - i regret this perverse system by which the european union, on the one hand, destroys the economic environment and, on the other, pays out a few subsidies which do little to compensate for the difficulties its policy has generated. i do not hesitate to support job creators, but i regret that the union is putting them in a situation where they have to ask for help to survive. when will we have a rational policy that protects businesses and workers through controlled borders? taking a few measures to reduce the effects when we keep aggravating the causes makes no sense. peugeot is suffering because it has refused to relocate in large numbers and has tried to preserve employment in france. it's unacceptable that this choice will ultimately harm him. this is proof that europe's economic directives are absurd and unfavourable to the citizens of the european countries.
in writing. - several psa sites in france have been affected by massive redundancies i therefore vote in favour of the mobilisation of this globalisation adjustment fund, the aims of which are training and retraining. nevertheless, prevention is better than cure, and i therefore ask the governments of the union to adopt common industrial policies to deal with the distortion of competition and the flight of our industries.
in writing. - the european automobile industry is experiencing a deep crisis, which is not new but whose effects on employment are increasingly devastating. it is our duty as elected europeans to do what we can to help hard-hit workers to bounce back from being laid off, sometimes even the outright closure of the factory where they have worked for years. that is why i supported my colleague isabelle thomas in drafting her report on the mobilisation of the egf for former psa employees, and i naturally voted in favour of it. the regions of île-de-france and brittany have been affected by the thousands of job cuts, and it is now time to convert as many people as possible. the psa group has also provided a number of comments on the restructuring plan. these are difficult times, and european funds are all the more important for implementing european solidarity and providing practical and effective help for our fellow citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting eur 12.7 million to former employees of psa peugeot citroën. this assistance is provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is specifically targeted at workers in the sectors most affected by the crisis. it will be used to co-finance measures to support the job search, training and entrepreneurship of more than 2 000 former employees of psa peugeot citroën, and this is a project that deserves our support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to provide financial and professional assistance to the 2,357 employees of psa peugeot citroën who have been made redundant throughout france. the €12.7 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund will enable displaced people to benefit from tailored training programmes and subsequently find a job that matches their skills. i would like to remind you that the french epp delegation and i have always supported the continuation of the european globalisation adjustment fund and have clearly defended it when it was called into question. the psa case clearly shows that we must continue our fight for a fairer europe closer to the citizens.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted by a large majority the report by isabelle thomas calling for the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund of €12.7 million for 2 357 of the 6 120 workers made redundant at psa, announced in july 2012. i voted against this report because it finances the laying-off of thousands of employees in a company which has obtained a guarantee of 4 billion from the french government, the european car industry having also been massively supported by the eu following the crisis of 2007-2008. i also voted against because the reasons given were the company's losses, the deterioration of the european car market, whereas car registrations have been rising continuously for 13 months and france is the second european beneficiary of this increase; the former head of psa believes that the "labor cost" in france is the highest in europe, even though the company had set aside several million euros for his pension, which he was forced to give up in the face of the scandal of these thousands of redundancies. i believe that large companies have other ways of financing their redundancy plans than by using public funds.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president barroso, when you talk about your satisfaction with your ten-year record, it is hard to understand why so many europeans do not realise that they live in the best of all worlds and why they refuse to vote now. in your plea, you talk about yourself, all the time, but very little about those millions of hardworking people, those who are burdened by unemployment, poverty and austerity every day. in ten years you have succeeded in making people hate the very idea of europe, by your efforts to privatize the large public sectors, to deregulate railways, energy and the postal service, and to make the management of the single currency almost exclusively a matter of speculation rather than giving priority to work and productive and ecological investment. not content with that, you and the governments have succeeded in this feat of transforming private debts into public debts and have even had the audacity to call upon the international monetary fund and its shock therapies to settle them, the consequences of which are now being borne by the youth and the peoples of greece, portugal, ireland, spain and now italy and france with unprecedented violence. we were told that the lisbon strategy was a resounding failure; so is the europe 2020 strategy. you have refused to include any criteria of social progress and ecological progress in the major european decisions. you have recently rejected the draft european minimum income, the extension of the maternity leave directive and a genuine positive amendment to the directive on posted workers. not content with the fierce competition between workers and firms within europe, you have proposed to widen the field of exploitation by activating the transatlantic single market project. the future depends on the exit from these austerity and regressive choices which are leading every european project into a dead end. we must instead invent a humanist europe. we must now imagine a policy of social recovery, replacing the relentless pursuit of lower labour costs with a hunt for capital waste and attacks on the environment. the european central bank's rigidity should be countered by what we have stopped defending here: a new fund for social, human and ecological development and a large cooperative investment plan, without which there will be no future for our european project.
in writing. mr barroso has violated democracy by imposing the treaty of lisbon on the french people; law by saving the euro in defiance of the treaties; and our values by starving people. a terrible record of oligarchy.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, as you have said, the council meeting on 23 and 24 october will have to deal with important and topical issues. it will, inter alia, decide on the objectives to be set for the new climate and energy action framework, and address the key issues of strengthening energy security, europe and interconnection needs. let us be clear: our aim is not to wage an ideological war against climate change, which would leave the mangled bodies of our companies and their employees on the battlefield. it is really - and i say this emphatically - that europe is committed to combating climate change while preserving its competitiveness and ensuring its security of supply. the situation in ukraine is a good reminder of the importance of ensuring the security of our energy sources. europe faces major challenges: high energy prices - in some sectors up to 40% of production costs - national policies are not sufficiently coherent and the internal energy market is still fragmented. finally, we have an obligation to move towards a decarbonised economy. to meet these needs, we must therefore diversify our sources of supply: renewable energy must be supported until it is technologically mature. we also need to strengthen energy infrastructure. interconnection between member states will be the key to building a genuine common european energy policy, an energy union, so dear to the new president jean-claude juncker, who has made it one of his priorities. the objectives set by the european council will be important in informing and guiding the investments of our companies. we need to provide them with a stable framework and visibility. let's stop changing our goals all the time. i take the example of the list of sectors exposed to carbon leakage: it should not have led to hesitation and our group, the epp, has shown its unity on this essential subject. the support given to enterprises to change their production methods and the use of their resources must not be mere words, but a concrete act and a promise to be kept. today, many european industrial sectors are world champions in energy efficiency and emission reduction. in building construction and transport, the potential for efficiency gains is enormous. in contrast, carbon capture and storage technologies have not really taken off. the storage of electricity must also mobilize us. it is the only way to make the development of renewable energy credible. europe cannot be left behind in these vital areas. the european union must therefore give strong support, first and foremost, to our companies in their research and development efforts. this will enable them to use ever more innovative and less polluting technologies to meet the challenges of sustainable development. in december, at the lima conference, we will have to engage with our partners in a frank, serious and pragmatic dialogue. we must not impose our goals on others because acting unilaterally is not the solution. while the eu is currently responsible for only 11% of global co2 emissions - a share that will decrease in the coming years - it cannot take the decisions on its own. europe must not be the great naïve of the climate negotiations. the lima conference must therefore be a real preparatory phase for the great paris conference. in 2015, we have a good chance of reaching a concerted international agreement, which is therefore sound and respected by all. you have mentioned many challenges, commissioner, and there is an urgency to solve the ukrainian problem. there is an urgent need to combat terrorism. there is an urgent need to stem the spread of ebola. we all have to be determined. as jean monnet said - and i conclude - 'the important thing is not to be optimistic or pessimistic, but to be determined'. and in the epp group, on all these issues, we are.
mr president, in 2008 the european institutions adopted the first climate-energy package and europe was in fact taking a leading role in energy, climate and industrial matters. unfortunately, this ambition has been exhausted and the package proposed by the european commission, on which our european leaders will be working, considerably reduces this ambition. with a 30% efficiency target, this is an ambition reduced by a third between the decade of 2010 and the decade of 2020. with a target of 27% renewable energy, that's a reduced ambition by half. so how can this new commission see that with such a package we are going to be the world leaders in climate and energy? we talk a lot about economy and realism here, but the reality is that with 40% efficiency, we do without russian gas. the economic reality is that two thirds of new electricity capacity installed in europe is renewable energy sources. there is economic realism, there is climate realism. let us have the ambition to be pragmatic, to save the climate, to save european industry and to create jobs!
the question is "blue cardboard". mr. parliamentarian, we are all a little tired of your pontifications about russia. russia is a stable partner and a great nation, and to want to put russia in all the sauces is only to poison our relations with this great country of europe. my question is this: do you not think that today, at the dawn of all european projects, russia also represents our energy security?
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, we are at the beginning of the parliamentary term and i want to point out two shortcomings. the first is the emergence of a hidden debt due to a growing lag between commitments and payments. the position of the committee on budgets has been made clear by those who have spoken, and we intend to adopt a strategic line to remedy this. the multiannual framework 2014-2020 does not take into account the unpaid amounts, which at the end of 2013 amounted to 23,4 billion. i thank commissioner dominik for the clarity he has brought to this matter. the second dysfunction is linked to the internal market, because we are seeing new resources accumulating with the fines decided by the court of justice. this means that the functioning of competition is imperfect: 1.331 billion additional resources at the end of 2013, including interest on late payments, but probably 3.5 billion fines for 2014. this dysfunction of the internal market seems to me to be serious because a poor functioning of competition is detrimental to growth and therefore to the reversal of the unemployment curve. it is important to remedy this, because the court of justice needs four years - i say four years - to deal with competition cases. the court of justice had requested additional resources in march 2011 but the council was unable to find a solution for the appointment of judges because it was requesting twelve additional judges. for three years the council has been unable to meet this expectation. so we are probably going to appoint 28 additional judges because that number corresponds to the number of member countries of the european union. i hope that this dysfunction will be quickly remedied, first because it is detrimental to growth and secondly because failure to take a decision delays the payment of these fines.
madam president, mr minister, thank you for being with us today. it is a sign of respect between our institutions but it is probably the last sign of respect because if this presence tells us: "i listen to you", your position on the budget tells us: "because always". i want to denounce the insincerity of the european states which, last november, agreed in the framework of the dialogue with parliament to create a contingency reserve in the financial framework 2014-2020. but today the council refuses to apply it. he proposes that we should be cavalier in the budget and ask us to let the project promoters and the local authorities shoulder the burden of their own carelessness. without these elements of flexibility, the council would not have been able to reach agreement with parliament. but today the council is trampling on that agreement and at the same time trampling on our assembly. everyone knows that the union needs a boost to growth and employment. everyone knows it's not gonna happen without fresh money. so let the council get out of its schizophrenia, let it respect the citizens of europe and let it start by paying its debts and keeping its commitments!
madam president, commissioner, it has been announced that a number of member states in the council do not wish to approve the 2014 amending budget as proposed by the commission and amended by the committee on budgets. ladies and gentlemen, what i am proposing today is an exercise in political fiction. let us suppose that the council maintains its position and decides, in effect, not to respect its commitments. what are we going to say to the associations, researchers, ngos and local authorities in our respective countries who have applied for european structural funds and see nothing coming? what are we going to say to our fellow citizens in the face of the european union's looming default, with over 24 billion euros short of what is needed? how are we to explain to our fellow citizens that this europe, in which they have placed so much hope, is not on the appointed date of history? the council must accept our proposals, which are very reasonable, if we do not want to have to answer these questions. at the very least, the 4 billion in the budget and all the fines, of course, must be mobilised.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs eider gardiazabal, on her excellent work on the 2015 budget. it allows parliament to take a particularly ambitious position on an agreement involving the bulk of its political groups. i want to assure the rapporteur of the support of the socialist and democratic group, which i represent this evening. we share his determination to restore, in the budgetary reality, a european ambition for growth and employment. mr president, we decided last november in this very house on a seven-year agreement, with precise budgetary commitments and the necessary flexibility mechanisms. one year later, what does the council propose? it refuses to use the flexibility instruments and cuts 2 billion in budgetary appropriations for strategic expenditure, expenditure on actions already carried out and waiting for the union to pay its bills. yes, we know the difficult situation of the public finances of the member states, but they themselves have decided to apply austerity measures in the midst of the crisis. we've known for centuries that applying a blood bath worsens the patient's condition. and what does the council propose? another bloodletting, this time in the community budget. yet, meeting after meeting, everyone proclaims that they want a stimulus plan for growth and jobs in europe, but how can we believe in a stimulus plan when we start by not paying what we owe? mr minister, tell the council that the only confidence-building measure that would restart this process is the one that the members of parliament are proposing today: pay back to the europeans 10 billion euros out of the 32 billion euros you owe them.
mr president, this general budget of the european union for 2015, presented as the miracle cure to revive and stimulate growth, create jobs or promote competitiveness and investment in all 28 member states, is nothing but a deception. as in previous budgets, no real savings will be made by the union, since every section, every action, every programme and every project is obviously considered necessary, indispensable and highly priority. left and right, you are calling for expenditure and still more expenditure which will sooner or later be financed by direct european taxation. exits the budgetary rigour, which is required of the member states. the union is a supranational authority which obeys only its own rules, including those on budgetary matters. however, the economic and social situation in the euro area should have given you pause. the commission's proposals are not only a means of ensuring that the community's citizens are not left behind, but also a means of ensuring that the community's citizens are not left behind. you have imposed on the peoples, with the complicity of governments of the right and the left, the single currency. in france, the purchasing power of our compatriots has melted like snow in the sun, paralysing the engine of consumption. you have imposed ultra-liberal dogma and free and undistorted competition. in france, our firms and industries have found themselves in a bind against totally unfair competition from countries with low production costs. you have imposed the so-called posted workers directive, thereby creating, in france, with full legal force and the greatest cynicism, a monstrous social dumping, to say the least in view of the costs entailing the least in social terms in sectors directly linked to investment, such as the btp, public works or transport. you are calling for more and more immigration, even though france has more than five million unemployed and 8.4 million poor. this is your europe, the europe of submission to the markets and the banks, of ultra-liberalism, unemployment, deindustrialisation and zero growth.
mr president, it is late and most european farmers are asleep at this hour, but it is also a moment of truth for them. without wishing to go on too long, i will simply say that agriculture is the poor relative of the budget. the 2015 agriculture budget is the capitulation budget. the capitulation to other production needs, with the generalization of decoupled aids. the capitulation to the fall in the income of french and european farmers, whose aid is being greatly reduced as a result of this budget. the capitulation still - and it is not over - to the major competing blocs, such as the united states, which, with its new farm bill, is taking over the production logic that you have abandoned. finally, the capitulation which is leading you today to undermine the original objectives of the cap: ensuring our food self-sufficiency, preserving decent incomes for european farmers and guaranteeing the quality and, in particular, the traceability of our products.
madam president, commissioner, mr council representative, ladies and gentlemen, we have just learned that the college of commissioners has adopted a letter of amendment to the draft budget for 2015, in which all the emergency measures taken as a result of the russian embargo would be financed from the crisis reserve. i do not think that this crisis reserve should have been used for this purpose. we have said it many times: this is not a market crisis or a health crisis but a political crisis. if we accept this, we will be penalising farmers twice: once because of the consequences of the russian embargo and a second time because of the reduction in direct aid the following year. the information we have received suggests that this letter of amendment would be discussed directly in the conciliation committee without going through the committee on budgets. this is a real problem because it prevents any debate on the subject. i hope that other sources of funding will be mobilised for these measures. one way of thinking about this is to use the contingency margin as a last resort.
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, in the face of a world that is changing around us, the debate clearly shows that we need a europe that is more united and stronger. if the question of own resources had been settled in the budget for the period, perhaps the debate tonight and the positions of both sides would have been easier. it seems that sources of savings and administrative simplifications which could generate additional margins must be sought. finally, a final word on this famous letter of amendment. after having cut the cap budget and the budget for direct aids, can we now make farmers - and only farmers - pay for the russian embargo and ask them to pay for the fourth time next year by imposing a further cut in direct aids? this is unfair and unacceptable.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 22 october 2014, at 1 p.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary (2014/2852 ((rsp)).
for the gue/ngl group madam president, we are living in a somewhat surreal time here and the word is weak. what is happening in hungary is part of that. mr orbán now wants to build an illiberal state. its models are china, russia and turkey, and it wants to break with the dogmas and ideologies of the west. unfortunately, the facts are not in the words: ngos are political agents paid by foreign countries, accused of "spying for the vikings", as kehi, the government watchdog office, puts it. in question: ngos fighting corruption, for lgbt, roma and human rights in general, funded by a norwegian fund for civil society, hence the "vikings". in the spotlight: ngos such as amnesty international and transparency international. at the same time, the media and the judiciary continue to be put on a pedestal. rtl club, a subsidiary of a large luxembourg company, is financing 65% of the new media tax, even though its audience is only 15%. the election results are in, but the electoral law has been changed to better serve the interests of the majority party. fidesz has been omnipresent in the media and the osce - sorry for the smallness - says: "hungary's elections are free but not democratic". and what are the european institutions doing? i didn't say anything. mr juncker has proposed to give the portfolio of culture, education and youth to tibor navracsics, the minister who led the reforms called into question by the council of europe and our european parliament. the values of democracy and human rights are universal. they must not vary according to political affiliation. it's true here, it's true somewhere else. there is an urgent need to react and what i have heard so far does not seem to me to be up to the task. (the speaker agrees to answer two 'blue card' questions (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs vergiat, i would just like to say that the rule of law and the law come from the people and the sovereignty. the universal values are the values inscribed in this sovereignty and in natural law, which our institutions do not recognize, even though this right is millennia old and is also inscribed in religions. it is our institutions that often pose problems and violate democracy when they do not respect certain democratic choices, in france and in other countries. so i cannot understand your position on the rule of law. what is the basis for this position?
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i think i will be brief. as for me, i'm not a liberal. i have no problem with that, i am not dogmatic about it and i am not in favour of the european institutions imposing dogmas, as they are doing in the economic field at the moment. but i have values. these values are the european charter of human rights, the universal declaration of human rights and the european convention on human rights. and when these values are violated, there is an urgent need to act. as regards the second point, i shall simply refer to the osce statement, which said that the elections in hungary were not democratic.
madam president, this is the second, third or fourth debate we have on this subject in this house and i hope, if there is any electricity in the air, that it will lead to a real dialogue tonight, in the sense that the commission has explained, and that it will lead above all to the silencing of the concerns that are emerging with regard to the protection of our fundamental rights and values, which, in essence, unite us, cement the rule of law and european democracy and make us europeans. i too have met in recent days with representatives of rtl club, who explained to me the elements that led them to initiate a complaint procedure before the commission after the adoption of the law of june 2014. we do not have to judge - and anyone who is not a hungarian citizen does not have to judge - the decisions taken by the hungarian people under their legislation. but, as with all the states, all those who have decided to sign the treaties and to belong to the union, these laws must respect our common foundation and we must therefore examine whether the principle of equality and pluralism of the media is respected or not. the credibility of the union, and therefore of all of us, is at stake.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although it is late, i would like to remind you of a number of things, particularly for the commission representative. let's go over the numbers. the union's surpluses to ukraine increased fivefold between 2002 and 2012, from 2 billion to 10 billion surpluses. it was not the union that helped ukraine but ukraine that helped the union. the already reduced customs duties have not brought economic growth and development to ukraine but have led to job losses, recession and unemployment. the agreement does not bring economic stability but economic instability in ukraine and unfair competition, especially in the agricultural sector. in france, where farmers are suffering more and more, there is more than one suicide a day. in a few years' time, it will be the population of the west of ukraine after that of the east that will know that the union and its european institutions are bringing political and economic instability, even if it must be admitted that this agreement has, at least, the advantage of not wanting to oppose the west and the east in the development of ukraine.
mr president, mr juncker, it is urgent that you can implement a number of the commitments you have made to us. but if you make commitments, that means you also agree to be monitored for their implementation. that's where we'll meet. when you mentioned the 300 billion plan, you said you would present it with mr katainen. it seems to us that your neighbour, your left hand or your right hand, obviously depending on the day, mr frans timmermans, will also have to be directly and totally involved in order for this 300 billion plan to be a plan in the service of a sustainable development strategy. you have wanted to promote the energy transition in this plan, and we thank you for that. we are with you in this, but we must also think about a digital plan. if we are also in favour of a digital economy, we know that we will not make progress towards such an economy without directly, precisely and effectively addressing the taxation issues in this area. when you make proposals to us on this 300 billion plan, take account of the investment deficit you have identified and which leads you to put this proposal on the table, but do not forget that there are other debates behind these 300 billion and that this 300 billion proposal cannot be a balance at all. we must not forget that it is also there because there are differences between the economies of the european union, that it cannot be a plan with a fair return logic, that it must be a plan to correct the asymmetries in the european economies, which are fatal to the common work of the peoples, and that everyone finds a reason to hope in the european project. i wish you luck.
mr president, we will give you our confidence. it will be demanding and impatient because europeans expect concrete results. but you have your assets: a great deal of experience, a european conviction that has never wavered and a real political legitimacy. however, you will also need character and courage to make europe a place where political will can be formed. that's the problem. this requires vision, which heads of state or government all too often lack. the vision of a europe that is finally taking up the big issues and deciding to weigh in on the world, to defend its interests and to act for its economic and social development. it will also require, as you have said, a new institutional practice, a return to the community method, with a commission which, i hope and am sure, will finally regain its full right of initiative. mr president, like you, we want europe to succeed. that is the full meaning of the trust we will grant you.
mr president, today i am surprised. you have spoken for almost 46 minutes and you have not said a word about the future of agriculture or the future of the farmers. this is a real problem: agriculture is the first budget of the european union and today it is no longer part of the discourse on the future of europe. farmers are threatened by free trade agreements and the end of milk quotas; we may be facing the worst crisis in the coming months. at the same time, food supplies are threatened. it is true that in july you spoke about gmos. i think that a clear policy is needed in this area too. at the same time, we are trying to impose new products on consumers, nanotechnology in food, titanium in yoghurt to make it whiter. do we need this? i believe that europe must be strong and that the aim of the european commission, if it wants to re-establish ties with the citizens, must be to defend both their daily lives, through food, but also the future of our territories, with the peasants.
mr president, mr barroso has left a european union without a plan, a european continent adrift, in a deplorable state. to save the euro, it has applied austerity plans to the people of southern europe with unprecedented severity, with catastrophic results in terms of unemployment, debt and impoverishment. mr juncker, let us now talk about your commission, an institution which is not based on any popular legitimacy. to moralize and regulate the financial sector, you appointed lord hill, a close associate of the city, who spent half his career as a lobbyist, working for hedge funds or big banks. to deal with the euro and social dialogue, you have chosen valdis dombrovskis, a former latvian prime minister who led the most serious austerity plan in his country, which resulted in a mass exodus of his population. you appointed miguel arias cañete to the climate and energy portfolio, and this man has very close ties to two oil companies, which he founded and which his family continues to control. by lacking such ethics in politics, such independence from the lobbies, you humiliate and insult all europeans. the road map for your new commission is terrifying: new types of full free trade agreements are planned with canada and the united states; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to cope with the problems of the world market. this agreement will align all standards, the collective preferences of the french, with american standards. finally, shame on the european commission! it is imposing, in these free trade agreements, a private justice for multinationals against the states. so you've completely destroyed our old democracies, at the mercy of the attacks of the transnational corporations. you need to dismantle public services a little bit more, they will have to be competitive and competitive or disappear. this is the role of the tisa treaty, which the commission is currently negotiating. unfortunately, these treaties will be the beginning of the takeover of democracy in europe by multinational companies. finally, your 300 billion euro bank loan programme will have an undue effect on the economy because, once again, it will only have an indirect effect on the real economy and employment. what, in conclusion, about your desire to bring turkey into the european union? what a visionary you are, mr juncker! the people of kobane are amazed! mr juncker, we will vote against your commission because, contrary to the french saying, with you the worst is always certain.
mr president, the europe of democracy and transparency has just suffered a serious setback. by accepting the appointment of mr miguel arias cañete, whose family has very important direct interests in the oil sector, as commissioner for climate and energy, this parliament is dishonoring the very foundation of democracy and the greatness of this house: the defence of the general european interest. respect for transparency and independence and the fight against conflicts of interest and corruption are not optional in a democracy, they are the condition for it. these principles should never be abandoned in the name of a grand coalition and of efficiency with blurred and totally opaque contours. today, therefore, i reject the commission presented by mr juncker and i do so as a pro-european. i want this europe to fulfil its primary function, that of defending the general european interest.
in writing. the juncker commission is no more legitimate than the barroso commission. contrary to what we are led to believe, the european parliament does not decide and the major european parties have quietly negotiated the distribution of commissioners' posts. the new commission will of course continue the disastrous policy of the previous commission and will further trap the people of europe in a cycle of austerity, mass unemployment and impoverishment. it will remain subject to multinationals, lobbyists and banks. the commissioner for financial services, john hill, is british (and will therefore be in charge of the city...); the european union's energy commissioner, miguel canete, is a shareholder in two oil companies, and the finnish employment commissioner, katainen, now wants a €300 billion stimulus package, even though he was previously the champion of austerity and wanted to mortgage the parthenon in exchange for financial aid to greece. europe will therefore continue its ultra-liberal policy of opening up its borders, destroying public services and enlargement. the commissioner responsible for the neighbourhood, johannes hahn, himself admitted that turkey should be included in the list of priority countries. for all these reasons, i voted against this commission.
in writing. we denounce the composition of this commission which could have been expected to bring renewal to a continent drifting by mr barroso and his catastrophic record. the commission, which has no popular legitimacy, has a bad smell, that of the lobbies that cannibalize the living resources of nations for the benefit of stateless multinationals. the presence of lord hill so close to the city does not reassure us. the situation of valdis dombrovskis is terrifying, who has driven a part of his people away with a most sinister austerity plan. what about miguel arias cañete, the oil tycoon whose family owns the company? to these glaring moral failings is added a calamitous road map where it is clear that europe's alignment with american standards will reach an unprecedented scale, with its predictable cortege of bankruptcies and unemployment for european workers. no, i do not accept these men of decadence and decline who want to control the justice of our countries by private justice. so in rejecting this college, i say no to the double humiliation of addiction and decline.
in writing. - for the first time in the history of the union, the president of the european commission was appointed following the results of the european parliament elections last may. the european people's party won the largest number of votes and the largest number of seats, and its candidate, jean-claude juncker, was appointed president. it is a further step towards a political europe closer to the citizens. i voted for the new commission because i believe it is balanced and has competent personalities. i also support jean-claude juncker's programme for growth, jobs and competitiveness in europe. the new commission will now begin work for a five-year term.
in writing. - in conscience and in line with the commitments i made to my constituents, i voted against the new european commission. i voted for and campaigned for jean-claude juncker. but i did not find in the remarks of the commissioners-designate at their hearings the key proposals on which we were elected in france. how, in particular, can we give a blank check to a commission in which the commissioner for migration and home affairs not only supports the entry of romania and bulgaria into schengen, but also seems to have no inclination whatsoever to carry out the urgent schengen reform that the peoples are waiting for? the commissioner-designate for the accession negotiations, on the other hand, did not express any wish to pause the enlargement process, supporting the continuation of negotiations with the candidate countries, in particular turkey. and how can we approve pierre moscovici's candidacy for the post of commissioner for economic and financial affairs when we know his catastrophic record in france? in this context, i have decided to be faithful to my constituents and to my commitments by voting against.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new european commission proposed by jean-claude juncker. this confidence will be demanding and impatient, as europeans expect concrete results. and jean-claude juncker has his assets: a great deal of experience, a european conviction that has never wavered and genuine political legitimacy. it will also require character and courage to make europe a place where political will can be formed. that's the problem. this requires a vision which heads of state and government too often lack. the vision of a europe that is finally taking up the big issues, that is deciding to weigh in on the world, to defend its interests and to act for its economic and social development. it will also require a new institutional practice, a return to the community method with a commission which will finally regain its full right of initiative. we want europe to succeed. that's the full meaning of the trust we've placed in you.
in writing. - i voted for the european commission and the college of commissioners as proposed by its president, jean-claude juncker, after the hearings held by the european parliament. the composition of the college reflects the results of the european elections and it is normal for democracy to speak out, but i will be very attentive to the proposals that the various commissioners may make and will not hesitate to oppose ideas that i do not share.
in writing. - i welcome the establishment of the new commission of jean-claude juncker. finally, we will have real interlocutors, mostly former ministers, who, through their experience in government, know their responsibility in the political choices that will involve europe. however, while i am pleased that a team has been set up and that the political balances have been respected, i will be particularly attentive to the immediate decisions that will be taken, particularly as regards the budget of france. i also expect the new commissioner for migration, whose portfolio has been supplemented - and this is very regrettable - by that of citizenship, not to confine himself to symbolic speeches on respect for fundamental rights but to make realistic choices in the field of migration policy, choices that are as close as possible to the sometimes difficult and dramatic realities of lampedusa and calais.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european commission proposed by jean-claude juncker following the process of the european parliament hearing the various candidate commissioners. these auditions were a test of each candidate's knowledge and commitment to europe. he would not have been responsible for further delaying the establishment of this new european commission, at a time when many europeans are still suffering greatly from the economic crisis. the commission was approved by a majority of 423 votes in favour, 209 against and 67 abstentions. i welcome this vote which will enable us to get back to work quickly to get europe out of the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new european commission chaired by jean-claude juncker. in these difficult times, the new european executive will have to get to work quickly and prove itself up to the challenges that lie ahead. the results of the european elections on 25 may were a testimony to a profound disdain for europe and a demonstration of the european union's inability to make itself heard by european citizens. if the union is to regain their trust, it will have to give itself the means to be a real power: an economic, commercial, energy, social, cultural and political power. it must be where we expect it to be, by choosing to focus on the essentials, by stopping drowning in useless texts and by providing practical solutions. finally, it will have to foster a sense of european belonging to a common destiny. this can be done by fostering pride in being european, including by teaching our common history from school.
in writing. - the election of mr juncker as president of the european commission is full of symbols. firstly, because the president of the commission is elected for the first time. but the members have no choice, since mr juncker was the only candidate! secondly, while the european elections in may showed a strong desire for change, a candidate from the serrail was elected, the result of backstage negotiations where transparency was not welcome. the illusion of european democracy is complete: the voice of the people is heard only in the distance. finally, as the prime minister of one of the founding countries of the union for 18 years, mr juncker bears responsibility for the policies that have led to the current situation: ultra-liberalism, austerity plans, mass unemployment, sluggish growth, competitiveness deficit, euro rescue mechanisms and failing banks, public over-indebtedness, etc. it embodies the continuity of a europe which refuses to question itself in the face of its failures. the evidence is its commitment to the transatlantic treaty, a real time bomb for our companies and our market. the european parliament's euro-realist members will therefore be putting the new european commission under increased scrutiny over the next five years.
in writing. mr barroso leaves an eu in a total stalemate, with austerity plans being implemented with the sole aim of saving the single currency. the european union has a duty to help the poorest countries in the world. the new juncker commission will obviously be the commission of accelerating the processes of dislocation of nation states and subjugation of peoples. this commission, which has no popular legitimacy, will thus intensify the mechanisms of globalisation. the free trade agreement with the united states and canada will bring our standards into line with american standards. in the agricultural sector, this will lead to even more productivism at the expense of product quality, the environment and consumer health. with the new juncker commission, public services will have to be ever more competitive and competitive or else they will simply disappear. for the new juncker commission, turkey's eu accession process will also be a priority... finally, the new juncker commission is woefully lacking in independence from lobbies by virtue of its very composition. for all these reasons, i voted against the juncker commission.
in writing. - it was after much hesitation and careful consideration that i decided to vote in favour of the commission. the commissioners' hearings have shown us that the portfolios allocated to certain commissioners were not wise. i want the catastrophic hearing of pierre moscovici to be recorded in the annals as the trial of france for the poor economic results of which the commissioner is the accountant. since françois hollande had nominated him as a candidate, it would have been more sensible to give him responsibility for something other than economic affairs, where he has seriously failed in his own country. however, since pierre moscovici, by disgracing france, found himself under the tutelage of two vice-presidents, and other commissioners had really demonstrated their competence, i chose not to penalise the commission for a few who did not seem to me up to the task. i also chose to respect the democratic legitimacy of jean-claude juncker as president-designate in accordance with the election result. finally, to reject the commission would have delayed our work, while the people expect us to deliver concrete results. my vote is not a blank cheque but a vigilant and demanding support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this new european commission which reflects the political balances resulting from the elections last may. jean-claude juncker has a real european character and if i regret some of the casting of his new team, it is the responsibility of the states, some of which have made rather risky choices. this commission will take office on 1 november and i am glad that we can finally get to work.
in writing. - a new european commission is in place, headed by jean-claude juncker. this is a great victory for our political family, the epp. we are the leading force in the european parliament, so it was logical that we should take over the commission. now i hope that the projects and policies outlined by president juncker will not remain a dead letter and will be implemented by the commissioners: investments, administrative simplification, ambitious policies for industry and energy, deficit reduction, a trade policy focused on the growth of our businesses. i will be vigilant to ensure that the commitments made to parliament are translated into strong action.
in writing. - the european parliament voted 423 to 209 with 67 abstentions to approve the new european commission headed by jean-claude juncker, which will take office on 1 november. i supported the future european commission and its political guidelines for the next five years. the programme of jean-claude juncker is ambitious and coincides with the current political, economic and financial situation of the european union. the rapid implementation of a €300 billion investment plan will enable the union to boost growth and employment. on international trade, juncker said that future free trade agreements would not be concluded at any price and that he was committed to achieving a fair and balanced agreement on the current trade negotiations between the eu and the us. this vote marks an important step in the construction of an ever more democratic european union. the european citizens, in the european elections on 25 may, were able to vote on the election of the future president of the european commission and on the political orientation of the eu. this is a further step towards greater transparency and democracy in europe.
in writing. - with my gue/ngl colleagues and 200 other meps, i voted with a heavy heart against the commission proposed by jean-claude juncker. the majority of the european parliament approved it by 423 votes to 209 with 67 abstentions, far fewer than the commission under manuel barroso in 2004 and 2009. but this is only a continuation of the same dogmatisms, which are far removed from the message of the citizens in the european elections. the new commission is therefore not up to the challenges, particularly the democratic and social challenges of the present day. its architecture puts market in almost every commissioner's portfolio; the commission has not taken account of the few requests made during the cartoons of the hearings of the commissioners-designate before the european parliament. while the actual evaluation of the candidatures before the parliamentary committees quickly gave way to blackmail between the main political groups, the epp, s&d and alde, the majority of the european parliament has thus finished ridiculing itself and will bear a heavy responsibility in the situation to come. the maintenance of mr navracsics and mr canete are two sad caricatures of what should not have been done. let those who supported it not come and lecture us.
in writing. this draft amending budget for 2014 on the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2013 financial year aims to record more than eur 1 billion in surplus for the 2013 financial year, eur 771 million from positive revenue (including fines and interest on late payment) and eur 276 million from under-implementation of expenditure. i would like to remind you that the 2014-2020 multiannual framework does not take into account the outstanding amounts, which at the end of 2013 amounted to eur 23.4 billion. the growing gap between commitments and payments has led to the emergence of a european debt even as brussels is sending letters to the member states on their budgets. it is also interesting to note that european competition policy is not so perfect, as evidenced by the high level of fines and interest (an additional 1.331 billion for 2013 but surely more than 3 billion in 2014...). finally, as this draft amending budget does not in any way change the budgetary and political guidelines adopted, i voted against it.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts of sound budgetary management which have resulted in a surplus of around eur 1 billion in the 2013 budget. given the very high pressure on the budget of the european union, this surplus will be entered as revenue in the 2014 budget. in a context of budgetary difficulties, it is essential to ensure the proper allocation of surpluses.
in writing. the eu financial regulation provides that the commission presents each year a draft amending budget to budget the surplus resulting from the previous year's budgetary exercise, in this case 2013. the payment situation is becoming critical from year to year. so, at the end of 2013, there were more than 23 billion unpaid and today they would be approaching the amount of 30 billion. this is of course a cause for concern, as the european budget is financed by 75% national contributions. although the treaty gives the council and parliament the same power over expenditure, in practice the states have the final say on payments. an agreement on the 2014 amending budget is therefore both an urgent necessity and a prerequisite for the final adoption of the 2015 budget. we will be vigilant, as europe needs a consolidated budget to invest in growth. more deeply, the recurring crises are a reminder of the urgent need for a substantive debate on eu resources in order to increase the eu's budgetary autonomy.
in writing. - the draft amending budget is only intended to budget the surplus for the financial year 2013. however, we are again facing a deficit in payment appropriations this year. we must find a lasting solution to the recurrent problem of unpaid debts and stop this snowball effect from becoming paralysed in a budgetary crisis. the credibility of the european union is at stake.
in writing. this report endorses the 2nd amending budget of the union for 2014. it aims to enter in the 2014 budget the 'surplus' of the 2013 financial year of eur 1 005 000 000. sign of chaotic eu management: the budget shows a surplus while at the same time all existing indicators show a shortage of payment appropriations, both in the 2012 budget and in the 2013 budget. the report proposes to allocate this 'surplus' to finance a new budget line, numbered 40 04 01, entitled 'reserve for additional payment needs'. a cat won't find her kittens there! a surplus to pay for a non-payment of the same budget. i shall abstain on that text.
in writing. this draft amending budget no 2/2014 does not solve the serious underlying problem of unpaid debts. at 31/12/2013, these amounted to more than €23 million and, taking into account the expected snowball effect, the outstanding invoices will exceed €27 million by the end of 2014. worse, the eu has 220 billion ral (commitment appropriations not covered by payment appropriations) on its hands. clearly, the eu has made commitments it cannot honour and is therefore unable to apply to itself the budgetary rigour it requires of the member states. today, it is practically on the verge of default. finally, in such a context, what credibility can be given to mr juncker who announces a major multiannual programme of additional investments of eur 300 billion? who 's gonna pay for this ? the member states ? or should we expect the creation of a european direct tax which will put a further strain on the purchasing power of the european people, already crushed by the austerity measures imposed by brussels... this draft amending budget is therefore only a small backstop to contain a hemorrhage. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft budget which aims to reserve the 2013 budget surplus. as part of its competition policy, the european commission collected more than €1 billion through various fines. the payments are paid directly to the general budget of the european union after deduction of national contributions. however, we already know that the 2014 budget will be unbalanced, due to the council's unwillingness to pay for the closure of the various programmes. i therefore supported the idea of putting the 2013 surplus in reserve until a solution was found to balance the 2014 budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the deprez report amending the amending budget for the financial year 2014, as it deals urgently with the question of the 23 billion euro budget deficit. the bulk treatment of all the draft amending budgets introduced for 2014 seems to me to be a good strategy. this should make it possible to avoid any refusal by the council of additional appropriations in the context of the closure of this imbalance. the beneficiaries of european programmes, like europe itself, deserve to see commitments honoured. i also agree with the principle of not entering into negotiations on the 2015 budget until the 2014 amending budget is amended.
in writing. - i supported this resolution of the european parliament on the amending budget for 2014. in order to honour payments made by local authorities, small businesses and other recipients of eu funds in 2014, the european commission had to request additional funds. the agreement between the political groups on the 2014 amending budget was essential to start negotiations with the council on the 2015 budget.
in writing. i want to denounce the insincerity of the european states which, last november, agreed, in dialogue with the parliament, to create a contingency reserve in the financial framework 2014-2020. and now the council refuses to apply it. the commission has already proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget. without these elements of flexibility, the council would not have agreed. and today the council is trampling on it, along with our assembly. everyone knows that the union needs a boost to growth and employment. everyone knows it's not gonna happen without fresh money. while the council comes out of its schizophrenia. that they respect european citizens. let him start by paying off his debts and keeping his promises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2015 budget because europe must have the means to act in favour of growth and employment. however, i am strongly opposed to the paragraph concerning a so-called road map for a single seat in parliament. the wording is a targeted attack on strasbourg. but such an attack is legally wrong and politically unacceptable. i have to remind you once again that there is only one seat. this is strasbourg! so yes, mr president, i am in favour of a single seat but for the single seat in strasbourg!
in writing. this draft general budget for 2015 reveals the hypocrisy of the european union. on the one hand, it is asking countries such as france to review their budgets because of excessive deficits; on the other hand, it faces recurring payment delays that reach impressive levels: almost €30 billion in unpaid invoices at the end of 2014! faced with this situation and the impossibility of demanding ever more credits from the member states already heavily indebted and affected by the economic crisis, the european union will soon have no choice but to bring out of the drawers its idea of a european tax. whether it is juncker or barroso, the epp or the pse, the same ultra-liberal and technocratic policies will be applied. i therefore voted against this general budget, which is part of too many years of confiscation of the sovereignty of the nation states.
in writing. - i voted for amendment no 232 tabled by mr bas eickhout, which calls for the abolition of direct aid from the cap to bullfighting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to provide the necessary financial support to the farmers.
in writing. - aware of the challenges facing the sugar sector, i have been a strong supporter of the sugar sector, particularly during the negotiations on the common organization of the market, for which i was rapporteur in the context of the reform of the cap, where i was able to secure a postponement of the end date of the quotas. however, in the present budgetary context, particularly in view of the urgent need to finance aid in connection with the russian embargo, it seems to me important to have a more thorough discussion in the committee on agriculture in order to work out the best ways of supporting the sugar sector in the context of the end of quotas.
in writing. - although i voted for the resolution on the 2015 budget as a whole to support growth and jobs in europe, i opposed the paragraph proposing a single seat. the european texts stipulate that the european parliament has one seat in strasbourg, so this paragraph is legally incorrect and is only intended to attack strasbourg. if some people want to challenge the seat of the institutions, then we must put everything on the table: all the institutions and agencies across the european union.
in writing. - we have worked to re-establish a reasonable and measured budget in order to participate in innovation, growth and social justice. in particular, we have committed ourselves to securing adequate and substantial funding for job creation in smes, erasmus scholarships, scientific research and food aid for the poorest.
in writing. - in order to enable the eu to honour its commitments and avoid a cessation of payments for several european programmes, parliament called for a waiver of cuts of 2 billion in the draft 2015 budget. i welcome the fact that the epp has increased the appropriations for job creation in smes (+ eur 26.5 million), erasmus+ scholarships (+ eur 24 million), scientific research (+ eur 90 million) and food aid for the poorest (+ eur 16.7 million) by voting for this resolution.
in writing. - the european budget 2015 incorporates the gradual cuts in the multiannual framework of the european budget which is to reduce european funds by 10%. however, it is an expanding european budget that should be adopted in these times of crisis to ensure european solidarity with countries and territories in difficulty, and to boost economic activity through ambitious investment in the european union's infrastructure and human capital. i would add that in return for accepting this multiannual austerity framework, parliament was promised to move forward with the discussion on own resources, but this has not yet begun. however, the amendments made by parliament to the council's proposal bring some improvements. firstly, the attempt to reduce the accumulation of unpaid bills: it is unthinkable that a shrinking european budget should have to cover the unpaid bills of the previous budgetary framework. that is why i supported the amendments made by parliament to the draft budget for 2015.
in writing. - the adoption of the 2015 budget once again revealed the exorbitant amount of unfunded commitments, which are a form of debt for the union. the total amount of these payments would be almost eur 30 billion in unpaid invoices at the end of 2014 and approximately eur 220 billion in commitment appropriations not covered by payment appropriations. what is the commission's legitimacy, then, in initiating this month the excessive deficit sanctions procedures against france and italy, when it is itself accumulating these debts? how credible is mr juncker, who announces a multiannual programme of additional investments of €300 billion, without specifying how it will be financed? in the end, it will still be the member states who will have to pay the price, unless a european tax, which is the dream of european leaders, is justified. the national front mps voted against the 2015 budget, except for some appropriations such as the cap, which they approved, and budgets for growth and innovation, which they abstained from.
in writing. - i voted for this budget. the draft, submitted by the european parliament, essentially takes over the proposal of the european commission. the council, for its part, wanted to reduce the european budget for 2015. as we are at the beginning of a new financial programming period (2014-2020), we need to have the necessary funds to honour our claims from the previous programming period (2007-2013). with the budget that the member states want today, we are going to put the european union in a situation of debt, even though the treaties forbid it. i am in favour of respect for treaties and the commitments of states. the reduction requested by the member states is also unjustified since it concerns all sectors which are levers of growth and employment such as research, reindustrialisation and innovation. i therefore ask that the european budget be reinstated. in fact, 95% of the budget is an investment budget and therefore goes indirectly to the states and the citizens. of the 5% of operating costs, all the european institutions have taken savings measures to participate in the european effort. for example, the institutions have committed themselves to reducing the wage bill by 2017.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2015 budget because the european union must have the means to implement all the policies needed to promote growth and create the jobs that are sorely lacking in our societies, especially among young people and women. however, i strongly opposed the paragraph on the road map for a so-called single seat for the european parliament, because behind this wording there is an attack on strasbourg. the european parliament has only one seat, strasbourg, and that is all the more dangerous politically and legally, as the treaties confirm.
in writing. - i am glad that the budget amendment calling for the abolition of aid for the breeding of fighting bulls was not adopted by my colleagues. i'm proud to have joined the bullfighting clubs at an early age. the european greens have made the fight against bullfighting a fantasy. but i say this: this amendment does not in any way respect the principle of subsidiarity. our regional traditions are not europe's responsibility. and i intend to continue to fight to make sure that it does.
in writing. - the european parliament has spoken on the 2015 general budget, sending a message to the other institutions to define what the political priorities of the european union should be. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. that is why i voted in favour of amendment no 472, which would raise the funds for transport to eur 465 million instead of eur 402 million, an increase of 15%, and would specifically allocate these funds to eliminate bottlenecks, facilitate railway interoperability, complete missing links and improve border crossings. in short, this money would greatly improve european mobility, which is no luxury for a region seeking to emerge from the crisis in a lasting way and to return to the path of employment and prosperity! the ball is now in the council's court, which will have to show whether it is also prepared to move towards an ambitious budget.
in writing. - this draft general budget, which is presented here as an opportunity to prepare 'initiatives and investments of interest and added value to the union', is perfectly in line with previous budgets which have brought europeans nothing but austerity and increasing insecurity. the report says that we should not see this budget as "an additional burden on national budgets". and it is clear that this is the case. let me remind you, for example, that france contributes more than eur 21 billion a year to the union budget, while we receive only eur 13 billion in return. moreover, where is the logic in asking us to vote for additional appropriations when, since 2010, the union has been experiencing recurrent payment problems and when, for cohesion policy alone, arrears reached a record level of eur 23 billion at the end of 2013. for these reasons, i voted against this draft budget for 2015.
in writing. to reopen the debate on the situation of the european parliament's seat in strasbourg is to open pandora's box. indeed, the location of institutions is the result of subtle and sometimes difficult compromises. requiring a single seat for the european parliament in brussels is contrary to the letter and spirit of the treaties. the economic and even ecological arguments appear to be greatly exaggerated. i therefore voted against amendment no 563 in paragraph 86 in favour of a road map for a single seat for the european parliament. the european structural funds are intended to enable the member states of the european union to remain competitive in the world economy. it is regrettable that these structural funds are sometimes misused to allow relocations which are in fact motivated by economic interests without a state. i believe that the structural funds, the second item in the community budget, must not be diverted from their purpose by direct or indirect support for relocations. i can only support amendment 43a tabled by rina ronja kari which 'reminds that the structural funds cannot be used in a way that directly or indirectly supports the relocation of services or production to other member states'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2015. the european union adopted last year its multiannual financial framework for the next six years. we must now meet our commitments so that the investments financed by the european budget can be realised. however, i do not agree with paragraph 86 of that resolution. the latter mentions the establishment of a roadmap for a single seat of the european parliament. the treaties are clear: parliament has only one official seat, in strasbourg. we must respect treaties.
in writing. - with this vote, the european parliament has demonstrated its willingness to negotiate a coherent budget for 2015 that reflects our political priorities. we have stressed our concern at the substantial budget cuts proposed by the council, particularly in the area of competitiveness, growth and employment. in particular, it is crucial to ensure strong financial support for smes in europe. that is why we want to increase the commitment appropriations for smes and business creation by eur 26.5 million compared to the draft budget. i also welcome the initiative to increase the budget of the european fund for the most deprived (efad). solidarity is a european commitment. i fought, like many of my colleagues, during the last mandate for the sustainability of this fund.
in writing. the european union must prepare for the future and safeguard education programmes, such as erasmus and erasmus mundus, research and development programmes. it must also support economic development through business aid programmes. that is the spirit of the draft budget we have adopted. the european parliament and the council now have three weeks of 'conciliation' before the final budget for 2015 is signed at the end of november. we must not let our vigilance weaken, because we need a consolidated budget which can respond to the concerns of the european citizens.
in writing. - although i voted for the resolution on the 2015 budget as a whole, in order to support growth and jobs in europe, i opposed the paragraph proposing a single seat. the european texts stipulate that the european parliament has only one seat in strasbourg, so this paragraph is legally incorrect and is only intended to attack strasbourg. if some people want to challenge the seat of the institutions, then we must put everything on the table: all the institutions and agencies across the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, whereby the european parliament adopted its position on the 2015 budget of the european union. in the face of the drastic cuts proposed by the council, our parliament wanted to restore the amounts initially proposed by the european commission, so that the european union can pursue an ambitious policy in terms of competitiveness and growth, to create jobs, to fight unemployment, to support research and innovation, to help smes: these are parliament's priorities. finally, and more particularly, i have once again supported the seat of strasbourg, which, to the displeasure of some, is the official seat of the european parliament. i also welcome the adoption of an amendment concerning the financial and human resources of the translation centre of the eu institutions. we must respect the fundamental principle of multilingualism.
in writing. - europeans expect strong action from the european union to meet the challenges of growth and employment. i therefore approved this report on the 2015 budget, which reminds the member states of their commitments on the european budget. the european parliament has made it very clear that it is committed to an ambitious european budget that respects the decision taken at the end of 2013 on the multiannual budget. i supported this report because it reminds the council that the european union has a budget for seven years with specific budgetary commitments. the european parliament rejects the budget cuts proposed by the council even though there is a consensus in europe on the need to revive growth and employment. i also welcome the broad consensus in the european parliament to resolve the payments crisis which is damaging the credibility of the european union. with six billion euros more than the council's proposal on payments, the european parliament gives the union the means to pay its debts to associations, companies and local authorities which have applied for european structural funds.
in writing. - as regards the eu budget for 2015, i understand the council's desire to reduce it and i am sure that some expenditure can be reduced. given the budgetary situation of the member states, i am convinced that we can 'do more with less' for a limited period of time. however, i do not think that the council's solution is the right one. by proposing a brutal cut of €2 billion in the 2015 budget, the states are in reality only denouncing their contractual obligations and penalizing citizens who are the main beneficiaries of popular programmes such as food aid for the poorest, the erasmus programme and cohesion policy. while i welcome the fact that the european parliament has called for the most necessary aid to be reinstated, i believe that cuts must be made to avoid suffocating the states and thus the taxpayers who remain the main contributors to the eu budget. it is a difficult exercise to reduce the budget while guaranteeing the payment of the commitments made to the citizens through the cap, regional policy and all the expenditure supposed to support growth.
in writing. - we have worked to re-establish a reasonable and measured budget in order to participate in innovation, growth and social justice. in particular, we have committed ourselves to securing adequate and substantial funding for job creation in smes, erasmus scholarships, scientific research and food aid for the poorest.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's position on the draft 2015 budget of the european union which calls on the member states to honour their budgetary commitments and to increase the appropriations for growth, employment, scientific research and humanitarian aid. however, i opposed a proposal in this draft to establish a road map for a single seat of the european parliament. it is enshrined in the treaties that the seat of the institutions of the union can only be changed by a unanimous decision of the heads of state or government. moreover, to challenge the strasbourg seat would be to undermine a strong symbol of reconciliation between france and germany, and thus the european project itself. since this proposal was supported by a majority of members, i have therefore chosen to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. this report rejects the council's position on the european budget for 2015. after a sharp budget decline in 2014, the eu's financial situation is critical: it is not able to pay the €26 billion accumulated at the end of 2013 or to finance any new priorities. the commission's 2015 proposal was already inadequate. it is made disastrous by the additional restrictions called for by the council. unimaginable cuts are planned in the appropriations for growth and employment, which the council itself has declared to be its absolute priorities. the same intolerable cuts are being made in research, smes and infrastructure. the report therefore rightly calls the council's proposal 'arbitrary, incoherent and catastrophic' in its consequences. the budget proposed in this report is, however, still very insufficient, with just 2 billion more than the 2013 budget. it would not even make it possible to absorb the unpaid, let alone finance new priorities. i abstain because i share the council's strong condemnation of the austerity delusions, but i cannot endorse a counter-proposal that is as inadequate as it is wilful.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text which complements the vote on the draft general budget for 2015. it takes up in literal form all the concerns expressed in the previous vote. however, i denounce the unacceptable attempt to divert the budgetary power of the european parliament to make it an anti-strasbourg weapon. an amendment, which i voted against, was tabled calling for the establishment of a single seat for the european parliament. the history of european integration and the city of strasbourg are closely linked. france, the founding country of the union, is obliged to keep the seat of the parliament in strasbourg in accordance with the treaty.
in writing. - i voted for this budget, on which the epp has made it possible to obtain the following appropriations: an increased allocation of eur 26.5 million for job creation in smes, more than eur 24 million in additional appropriations for erasmus+, eur 90 million more for scientific research than the commission's proposal. in these times of crisis, the epp has also successfully campaigned for an increase of an additional €16.7 million for food aid to the most deprived. i am concerned, however, about the constantly increasing debt resulting from the non-fulfilment of commitments by the states. the economic situation is not favourable, but it is the states which have set their own contributions and then denounced them.
in writing. i supported the report on the adoption of the budget of the european union for 2015. my support was based, among other things, on the fact that the budgetary priorities included support for the erasmus+ programme. i ran for the european parliament with a programme to further develop student exchanges and residencies, and therefore i welcome the increase in the budget for the erasmus+ chapter.
in writing. - i have approved the european parliament resolution on the council's position on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015. i am in favour of the reinstatement of the amounts cut by the council because it is essential that the guidelines at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy be strengthened in favour of growth, competitiveness, employment and creation. the first is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, and the second is that the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget.
in writing. - i supported the draft budget for 2015 which raises the commitment appropriations to eur 146 380.9 million and the payment appropriations to eur 146 416.5 million. parliament reversed all the cuts envisaged by the member states in the commission's original proposal and called for additional funding to boost growth and employment in the european union. smes and research and education programmes, including erasmus+, are expected to receive an additional €190 million. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. i voted against this amendment, as did the fn meps. i would like to recall that the treaties specifically state that 'the seat of the institutions of the union is to be determined by common accord of the governments of the member states' and that 'the european parliament shall have its seat in strasbourg'. there is therefore only one seat of the european parliament and that is the seat in strasbourg. to question the strasbourg seat of the parliamentary institution would be to question the whole balance of the geography of the institutions. i will defend this clear position consistently. thank you.
in writing. on 1 july 2013, croatia became the 28th member state of the european union and a protocol of understanding to the 2009 eu-korea free trade agreement was signed. this decision, which we are asked to approve, must ensure that croatia continues to participate fully in this free trade agreement. parliament's approval is required for this type of decision. i voted against this protocol because i believe that the european union must stop this gradual liberalisation of trade and the total elimination of customs duties and existing barriers, and even though this is a technical amendment, i do not wish to endorse the free trade agreement that has been reached.
in writing. - the european union and south korea are two very important trading partners. it has been three years since the eu and the republic of korea established a free trade agreement. this agreement is working very well and both sides are benefiting. with croatia's accession to the union in 2013, all international agreements, commercial or otherwise, must be extended to this new member state. i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of adapting the european legislative framework to the structural changes taking place in the union.
in writing. - by voting for this text, the european union wishes to ensure that croatia, the last state to join, benefits fully from the advantages it can provide, in particular its commercial power. in this respect, i am in favour of this text, which will not only provide legal security for the extension of the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement to croatia, but also safeguard the integrity of the union's internal market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jan zahradil on the protocol to the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement. the aim of this text is to take account of croatia's accession to the european union in this agreement with korea. the report was adopted by a majority of 524 votes in favour, 53 against and 106 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the protocol to the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement to take account of croatia's accession to the european union. since 2010, the eu and south korea have strengthened their ties through a strategic partnership that ensures a high level of mutual commitment. these relations are based mainly on two major agreements: the eu-south korea framework agreement adopted in 2010 and the eu-south korea free trade agreement adopted in 2011. this is the most ambitious trade agreement ever negotiated by the european union and the first signed with an asian country. it provides for the abolition of customs duties on almost 99% of traded products within five years, as well as the disappearance of many non-tariff barriers. it will stimulate bilateral trade, based on the principle of reciprocity. it will also improve the penetration of european companies into the korean market and, more broadly, throughout asia.
in writing. a free trade agreement was signed on 15 october 2009 between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part. on 17 february 2011, the european parliament adopted a legislative resolution giving its consent to the conclusion of an additional protocol to the agreement. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia joined the european union and became its 28th member state. the european parliament now has to approve croatia's participation in the eu-korea free trade agreement to complete the ratification process. as i am opposed to free trade agreements and to the accession of croatia, i shall vote against this text.
in writing. - i voted for this bill. the european union has trade relations with south korea under a free trade agreement. the text voted today aims to include croatia definitively in the agreement. croatia was included in an additional protocol as the negotiations for the agreement had begun before croatia's accession to the european union.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this additional protocol to take account of croatia's accession to the free trade agreement between the union and the republic of korea because the approval of the european parliament is the sine qua non for the conclusion of such a protocol. the free trade agreement with korea has proved to be generally beneficial. it cannot therefore pre-exist such a flagrant impediment to that agreement.
in writing. - when croatia acceded to the european union (1 july 2013), the additional protocol to the eu-korea free trade agreement was signed on the same day to take account of this accession and has been provisionally applied since that date. the current council decision aims to ensure that croatia can continue to participate fully in the eu-korea agreement. i therefore supported this report, which will help to complete the process of ratification of the additional protocol.
in writing. this report on the european semester for economic policy coordination and priorities for 2014 perfectly reflects the whole 'europeanist' thinking that currently dominates the european union. even as the peoples are suffering from an economic crisis that is not going away, this report suggests nothing less than continuing the policy of austerity, the harmful effects of which are clear. he insists on the need for member states to respect brussels' budgetary requirements under penalty of legal proceedings and elevates the euro, the single currency, to the altar of prosperity (even though the eurozone is in worse shape than the european union itself!). the report recognises an increase of 10 million people living in poverty between 2010 and 2012, but offers its own solutions to boost growth: structural reform including health systems and reducing the retirement age, a common, modern and inclusive immigration policy, stimulating labour mobility and free movement, restoring a favourable environment for business... in short, a descent into hell with ever more federalism and ultra-liberalism, which is why i voted against.
in writing. - the european semester is the european mechanism for economic governance. it provides an overview of the economic and financial policies of the european union and a roadmap identifying weaknesses on which each country needs to make progress. following the serious consequences of the crisis, it was important to develop a mechanism for harmonising the economic policies of the member states in order to avoid a situation similar to that experienced in 2008. i voted in favour of this text, which sets out the progress that each member state must make in order to emerge definitively from this economic recession. each state must be aware of its economic influence on the rest of europe. we have chosen to integrate our markets to form the european single market. if one state fails, others will also suffer the consequences. it is therefore essential to coordinate national fiscal policies and to implement the structural reforms needed to restore the european economy.
in writing. - the report on the european semester, the cycle of coordination of economic and budgetary policies within the european union, raises many very interesting questions in a constructive spirit. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency for the purpose of monetary policy. if france is not mentioned, we know that it is targeted. i regret that because of the current government's inability to carry out ambitious reforms, our country is once again lagging behind. nevertheless, the report proposes balanced solutions: to continue structural reforms while investing in research and development for better quality products. it contains proposals which are in the right direction, which is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the text reminds the member states that the necessary structural reforms must be implemented: they require courage but they are indispensable! i believe that the way to stimulate growth is to modernise our social security and health care systems without hindering patients' access to medical innovation and our pension systems by taking account of the ageing population. we must avoid imposing too heavy a burden on future generations. this is an emergency! the european commission will have to submit quarterly reports to parliament on progress in the follow-up of country-specific recommendations; and the eurogroup president will have to include a follow-up report in his assessment of the national budget plans for 2015. it is time for some member states to get to work at last!
in writing. - the reorientation of european economic and budgetary policies was to be reflected in the recommendations made in the context of the european semester. the final text of this report, which i support, contains important proposals from the socialists and democrats to reorient the union's economic and budgetary policies. the draft of automatic sanctions is finally excluded and the flexibilities of the stability and growth pact are put forward. we have also been able to get the report to stress the €300 billion investment plan needed to boost public and private investment in europe, the fight against unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, and the need to create a common unemployment insurance scheme for the euro zone. i regret that the energy transition issues, which are important for a return to sustainable growth, have not been included, but this text provides a basis on which the european parliament can base its support for the reorientation of economic and budgetary policies.
in writing. - it is important that the economic and budgetary policy recommendations be better implemented. we must remain vigilant in the face of the recent market crisis and not hesitate to carry out the necessary reforms.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies in 2014. it is important that the commission seizes the opportunity offered by the europe 2020 mid-term review and the revision of the integrated guidelines to strengthen the role of the single market for growth, innovation and jobs. the union's competitiveness needs to be strengthened in key areas such as the services sector, the energy sector, the transport sector and the digital single market. more determined efforts are needed to guide and coordinate national and union policies in order to complete the single market and reap its benefits, while continuing on the path of ambitious structural reforms in the member states. financing the real economy, and in particular smes, must be a priority and targeted and strategic investment, whether public or private, is essential to this end. i therefore welcome the €300 billion investment programme proposed by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, which is due to be presented by the end of 2014.
in writing. this text makes a fair assessment of the catastrophic economic situation: even germany is heading for recession. but it is not said that this is the direct consequence of austerity policies that have broken the production apparatus and popular consumption, in the name of debt repayment and the fight against inflation. the commission is also proposing to strengthen the sanctions for the european semester. it's hard to believe that such a proposal is being made. this is unacceptable! because that means the dismantling of national parliaments. and also because this semester is itself based on recessive liberal policies: liquidation of social security, of the pension system, of public services, attacks on the tax burden on labour, deregulation of the labour market, condemnation of protectionism. i am voting against this unjust text, which is a painful symptom of the dogmatic blindness of the technostructure of the european union.
in writing. this resolution on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies is an opportunity for the eurobieats to show us the usual common ground: the single currency would save national economies, structural reforms could help to revive growth... since 2011, the european semester has been supposed to harmonise the economic policies of the member states, and the least that can be said is that the results are really not what they should be: almost zero growth in the euro area before the recession, an explosion of unemployment, especially in france, berlin which continues to impose its rules within the eu, 11 out of 28 countries in the excessive deficit procedure, not to mention an eu budget that is on the verge of default ... what do the epp and s&d propose then? more from europe, of course. their reasoning is that if nothing is going well, it is precisely because there is not enough euro-federalism. the member states will therefore have to swallow even more ultra-liberalism and the people will be fed with austerity cures! a nightmarish future for the nations and peoples of europe... for all these reasons, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. - the coherence of the european union's policies needs to be strengthened more than ever, given that jean-claude juncker, the future president of the european commission, is promising a €300 billion investment plan. this report, which sets out the priorities of the european semester, thus attempts to highlight such consistency. i am grateful in this respect for some of the guidelines promoted by the european parliament, such as the coherence of the european union's investment in innovation, and access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises. in the light of current international developments, there is an increased urgency to establish a sound common energy policy and to strengthen coordination in the economic and monetary union. it is therefore necessary to be vigilant about the development of the successive common policies of the union and to ensure the greatest possible involvement of the european parliament in their elaboration.
in writing. - the european semester is the european union's economic governance cycle which allows member states to coordinate their economic policies to stimulate growth and employment and balance their budgets. however, only 10% of the country-specific reform recommendations issued by the commission for 2013 have been fully implemented, and little progress has been made on 45% of them. the implementation of the country-specific recommendations is essential to ensure economic coordination within the economic and monetary union and that is why i voted in favour of this report. genuine democratic accountability could also be established by the commission presenting quarterly reports to parliament on progress in implementing country-specific recommendations; in addition, member states which are falling behind in implementing the recommendations could come to explain their situation to the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr de backer's report on the economic and budgetary policy recommendations made in the context of the european semester. the removal from the report of the blackmail of the states to make the allocation of structural funds conditional on compliance with the 3% rule was decisive in my vote. as was the removal of automatic eu economic sanctions on member states that do not comply with this rule. we have therefore secured the adoption of some of our priorities, such as increasing public investment and using the flexibilities of the stability and growth pact. i regret, however, that this report did not go far enough. it does not include the withdrawal of the member states' contributions to the union budget, which is essentially investment expenditure, or the questioning of the austerity policy, despite its flagrant failure. finally, i denounce the political positions of a right-wing party which has still not realised the importance of the energy transition and the potential for growth and job creation that it would represent in this context of crisis and mass unemployment.
in writing. - the european semester is the implementation of the eu's austerity measures adopted after the 2008 financial crisis (6 packages, 2 packs). under the umbrella of european coordination of economic and budgetary policies, its purpose is to monitor the implementation of structural reforms, which are intended to reduce budget deficits. we all know what that means. this requires the 'modernization' of public services, including social protection and health, the flexibilization of work... these reforms are supposed to boost growth and employment... the commission did not wait for the 2015 budget of france to be debated in the french parliament to judge the €21 billion austerity plan insufficient and ask the french government for more budgetary "savings" to be in line with the necessary "structural effort". the dramatic social consequences of these policies are not important. they're still going! we will continue to reject these austerity policies and to say that there are alternative policies. the european semester is the supervision of national budgets with the sole objective of economic convergence leading to ever lower social levels, the explosion of precariousness, poverty and inequality!
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, let me first of all, i imagine on behalf of a number of colleagues, express my regret that the high representative, mrs ashton, did not deign to come to this last session and at least greet us. this is a tragic illustration of the lack of dialogue we have had in these five years. a lot has already been said about kobani and the islamic state group, and we are witnessing almost in person, unfortunately, the death throes of this kurdish city. i would like to focus on three points which are more directly related to what the countries of the european union can or should do. firstly, eight member states are now intervening militarily in this conflict, either by air strikes, by training kurdish and iraqi fighters, by supplying equipment, or by all three. could we not consider - has it been done at european level? - a little more coordinated action, particularly in the field of training? the european union is able to organise military training operations, as it does in other parts of the world. could we not use our common security and defence policy instruments instead of relying, once again, on an ad hoc coalition coordinated exclusively by the united states? secondly, the attitude of turkey, which you mentioned. i have never had any illusions about turkey joining the european union, but it turns out that, legally and politically, turkey is a candidate country and that, as such, it is bound by obligations to bring its foreign policy closer to the european union's common foreign and defence policy. that is not the case today and i find that totally unacceptable. let me say that turkey is not only a member of the european union but also of nato, and that an alliance such as nato is based first and foremost on the perception of common threats. when we see turkey's current attitude towards kobani, and more broadly towards the organization "islamic state in iraq and the levant", we can ask ourselves many questions. third point - and i will end on this, mr president - is our attitude towards syria. i understand the difficulty of considering that we have some common interests with the syrian regime, but i do not think that moral courage to constantly put the syrian regime and terrorist organisations on the same side is the solution. i fear that this will condemn us to a lasting impotence in the region.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, every day kobane is becoming more and more a symbol, a symbol of resistance against daesh, a symbol of kurdish resistance. so why is it that the international community, and especially the coalition of the same name, is not treating the fight against daesh in iraq and syria in the same way? in both cases, the kurds are on the front line. the iraqi government has asked for this intervention, but not syria. we all know why. the fight against daesh must be consistent. this monster didn't just come out of nowhere. it is the result of the deteriorating situation in syria, of the way in which the international community has, without reacting, allowed the syrian people to be massacred by their dictator. this monster, daesh, has long been aided and is no doubt still aided, directly or indirectly, particularly by the gulf powers. daesh is a barbaric, terrorist organization that is now out of control. there is an urgent need to react and it must be said loud and clear, particularly to turkey, that its delay is not worth it and that it cannot claim to be engaged in a peace process with the pkk and refuse to help its syrian friends. we must ensure that the weapons, as well as all kurdish fighters, not just the iraqi peachmerga, can actually cross the border, in the only place where this is possible, namely turkey. right now, it's mostly just words. we cannot, sometimes praising the courage of the kurds, sometimes calling them terrorists in the interests of turkey. it is time to demand the withdrawal of the pkk from the list of terrorist organisations in the union, including to help the peace process in turkey. it is time to help the kurds without hesitation in their fight against daesh for the benefit of all minorities and all democrats in syria and elsewhere. we need to act fast to avoid a second mosul. in kobane, there are more than 10,000 people waiting and they could be massacred at any moment.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i naturally agree with my colleague mr castaldo. my question is: should we not take action against turkey and stop all accession negotiations with that country?
mr president, kobanê is a city of martyrs, but it is also a symbol of our powerlessness. we must admit that our passivity as the european union underlines our lack of strategic vision on the real risks of the world to come. it also underlines our ignorance of the real aims of a number of fundamentalist and terrorist groups, those of daesh but more broadly those of al-qaeda, aqmi, jamaa al-islamiya, etc. it also highlights our irresponsibility towards our fellow citizens and our children. it is clear that the objectives of daesh go far beyond the capture of kobane or the massacre of its inhabitants. the fall of this city would be a psychological victory for daesh and for all the movements i mentioned that are loyal to it. it would also be a powerful encouragement or a powerful recruiting cause for jihad in general, there but also here. so today i am making a statement: the americans are intervening, and quite massively, some countries of the arabian peninsula are also intervening. even turkey seems to be making a move today, and us? what do we do besides speeches and a number of humanitarian actions? what do we as such do? there are indeed countries that are intervening, but often without coordination and without a real vision of the european union. this absence underlines the deficiency of our international and defence policy. mr president, since the high representative is not here, i would like to ask you whether the high representative intends to play her part in the next few weeks in seeking real coordination of the actions of the member states, in pressing against turkey, in convincing... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, what is happening in kobane is happening almost on the borders of europe, in our immediate vicinity, a few hours' flight from here, and this must constitute an obligation for europe to act in at least three directions. the first of these directions is, of course, our common defence and security organization. we cannot continue in the future without a common european defence. this is a medium- and long-term emergency. in the short term, we must support all those who are heroically resisting in this city of kobane. secondly, we must obviously act on a humanitarian basis, in accordance with the un principle of the responsibility to protect which you have just mentioned. there are thousands of refugees along the border. turkey must welcome them and europe must assume its humanitarian responsibilities. finally, the third direction: we must act diplomatically. turkey has played a double game which is unacceptable and which we must not accept. we must exert greater diplomatic pressure. i believe that in the fight against terrorism there can be no ambiguity. we must also work tirelessly to restore political stability to iraq. in the case of syria, it seems that we must set the priorities in chronological order and, let us remember, stand by lebanon, which is also under attack by the islamic state group. finally, we in the european union must do better to combat terrorism and, for example, finally put in place a european pnr system which will allow passenger data to be used to prevent terrorism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for several weeks now the media and western governments have been focusing on the kurdish city of kobani in northern syria, besieged by the islamic state group. while kobane is a humanitarian tragedy, with 300,000 kurdish refugees having crossed the turkish border to escape the isis massacres, one can still wonder about the magnifying glass effect on kobane. for the kurds of syria, firstly, kobani represents only a modest proportion of the kurdish population of northern syria, the cities of afrin, aleppo, al-hassaka are also heavily populated by kurds. as for the battle of kobane itself, it is just one of the many battles that are being fought in syria right now. it is even arguably not the most essential for syria's political future. on a strategic level, the outcome of the fighting between loyalists and rebels for control of handarat hill overlooking aleppo, for example, is a much more important issue than the fight for kobane. other battles between loyalists and rebels, between rebels and isis, between isis and loyalists, between the al-nusra front and hezbollah are happening all over the place. this lensing effect on kobani is enhanced by the fact that it is easy to shoot from the turkish hills while journalists no longer go anywhere inside syria. a retreat of the islamic state group from kobane is of course desirable and the national front supports the french strikes against isis but the reality is more complex, a reality that the us and european governments refuse to state. victory against the islamic state group will not come without close cooperation with the syrian government. so we need to get back to the real world and cooperate with syria to defeat isis.
in writing. the martyrdom of the kurdish city of kobani is a sad indication of the european union's impotence in the face of the barbarity of the islamic state. if kobane falls, it will be another defeat for the western powers in the face of islamist terrorism. it is regrettable that the burden of defence is unevenly shared between europe and the united states, and within europe itself. the few european air strikes in syria and iraq do not live up to the danger. if europe is to be part of history, it must stop the strategic evasion which leads it to behave as a consumer of the security of american defence policy and become an autonomous producer of its own security. are europeans able to define a common vision of the role of military intervention and are they prepared to invest substantially in a defence europe? are they determined to develop strategic cooperation with turkey in the face of jihadist contagion? destroying the islamic state must be our first priority. but europe cannot afford to spare longer-term reflection on the new question of the east and on the need to secure a lasting political solution in the middle east.
mr president, i think we all agree on freedom and democracy. but before going to other countries, we should also be concerned about freedom and democracy at home. i am thinking in particular of the constitutional treaty, in 2005, rejected by the french people; i am also thinking of the irish vote, when we made ireland vote until it voted well; i'm thinking of the dutch vote. let us care about democracy and freedom everywhere, including at home. i would also like to stress that china is a vast country with 1.3 billion inhabitants and internal balances. it is not about unbalancing this country as we have tried to do in the name of democracy and human rights - with the success we have had - in iraq, libya, syria and even against the islamic state group, given the lack of success of our actions for the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, these islamist fighters are your creatures. they are the result of your complacency, your inadequacies and inconsistencies. firstly, they are the result of your complacency in the face of the policy of mass immigration, which has brought millions of displaced people to europe and naturalised them. many are from a muslim background, and for some, religious extremism is now a factor of cohesion, assertiveness and revenge. they are also the result of your appalling lack of spirituality despite the presence of a huge group of so-called christian democrats, a lack of which is exemplified here again by the display of a hideous and offensive picture of the suffering christ and his mother. how can we blame these uprooted people for finding their religious ideal in the sacrifice offered to them rather than in our values and traditions, which you are methodically destroying? finally, they are the result of your political and strategic inconsistency. several european states, including my own, have provoked, as in libya and iraq, and encouraged, as in syria, the struggle against legal regimes, authoritarian indeed but tolerant in religious terms. how can we, for example, today treat these young men as terrorists because they came to fight against a regime that we were in syria, ourselves, about to strike? the way things are, it's not so much stopping them from leaving as it is stopping them from coming back. foreigners who have gone to the middle east to serve this barbarity must not be allowed to return. the dual nationals must be stripped of their european citizenship and also be refused re-admission to our states. it will be far more effective than any cosmetic measures you may be about to take.
mr president, we are european states of greek-latin culture and judeo-christian religion. we are also a continent which has welcomed immigration which was more or less assimilated at the beginning and which is now on the road to negative assimilation, with the consequences of what we are experiencing today. yet even the european court of human rights has pointed out that explicit references to the introduction of sharia are incompatible with our values. but in our neighbourhoods, in our countryside, today, many preachers are advocating this radical islamic law without our political leaders having taken any measure of this danger. that is why we, the front national, have been called an islamophobic party in france, when we were simply a democratic vigilance party critical of islam, just as we can, i think, criticise all religions. if we do not put an end to dual nationality, if we do not abolish the schengen agreements, if we do not put states like qatar and saudi arabia under strict surveillance, and if we do not or no longer follow the united states in all circumstances in external conflicts, i think we will have a dark future for our states and our continent.
mr president, there are three basic pitfalls to be avoided in the fight against terrorism. the first is ignorance -- and i've heard a lot of approximations in this debate tonight -- the second is naivety -- i've also heard a lot of very naïve talk -- and the third is widespread stigma -- of which i've also heard some examples. the phenomenon of european fighters in jihadist movements has always existed. it is not new in itself but it is new in its scope and the means it uses, namely the mass communication technologies that are used to convert and radicalize fragile elements of our society. in the face of this extreme threat, which is terrorist in nature and which plays on emotion and spectacle, every institutional level must take its responsibilities. the best solutions do not necessarily lie at the collective level of the european union, and we must be aware of this. the june 2013 conclusions are good conclusions which, i believe, contain a fairly accurate diagnosis of the measures that can and should be taken. however, the main responsibility for implementing these measures lies with the member states because the pillars of internal security - i.e. intelligence, police and justice - are the member states. i do not believe at all in the effectiveness of bureaucratic, hasty and ill-adapted european mutualisation. efficiency is achieved through better cooperation between the judiciary, the intelligence services and the police, not through the creation of a new european bureaucratic superstructure. in this respect, i wonder, as do many experts, whether it is worthwhile giving europol a leading role in this coordination. i do not think that is the purpose of europol and i think that national intelligence services are much better equipped for this. a final word on the responsibility of the european parliament. the european parliament must be more active and more expert on these issues and not get lost in completely vague, smokey and naive theological debates. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is "blue cardboard". mr. danjean, we know each other a little bit. you speak of naivety, because you see the consequences, whereas i see the causes. the causes lie in the genuine naivety of the european union and also, unfortunately, of the government you supported in france. my question is very simple. do you think it was smart, useful and bold to go after all these countries in the maghreb: tunisia, libya, egypt and, in the middle east, iraq and syria? by destabilizing those governments, you created the causes of your current problem. unfortunately, i think it's too late and you should have thought about it before. so will you continue to support the american policy of today, which is to eradicate all those states which have maintained stability in the middle east?
answer is "blue cardboard". mr ferrand, your question is off the point because the debate on the conflict in syria, on the armed conflicts in iraq, syria and elsewhere, took place earlier, but you were not present. we are now talking about the issues that need to be addressed and the measures that need to be taken today. i was very specific in my speech. and yet you give us a smoky clearance on american politics. that's not the problem. as i said in my speech, mr ferrand, if you had listened carefully, the problem of european jihadists existed long before libya, long before syria and long before iraq. that's not the root cause of all problems. if you want to know my opinion on libya and the destabilization of arab regimes, know that i do not endorse all the actions that have been taken. i don't subscribe to any of that. i think a number of regimes have been destabilized when they should not have been. but to make these phenomena the sole cause... (the president cut the speaker off)
the question is "blue cardboard". mr batten, i am french and i am very familiar with the situation in calais. i think it is useless to throw around numbers or figures. do you know how many people there are in calais? do you know who these thousands of people are that you suspect? i would like a precise answer, because when we are talking about figures in this house, we cannot afford to say everything and anything. it fuels hatred and fear, as does islamism, which you condemn, as we all do.
madam president, i am also angry. right now, all over europe, police are hunting migrants! the operation, called "mos maiorum", aims to learn more about the new routes used by smugglers. but who are we kidding? do you really believe that we can fight human trafficking by attacking its victims? the truth is, this operation is a european-wide manhunt. who decided it? what are the criteria? no one knows. the european parliament should be the first to discuss this. what happens to the people who get arrested? in greece and hungary, they put them in prison. is this the european policy? a year after lampedusa? what is happening today is a disgrace to europe! these migrants are mostly refugees, they flee their home countries because they are in danger. they end up in precarious situations, as in calais. tomorrow there will be more of them, there will be climate refugees! i say very calmly to the italian presidency: we will not solve the people's misery with whips and batons on every street corner. today is the day to put in place a decent european migration policy, based on fundamental rights but, above all, on solidarity.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
that item is closed.
the agenda calls for debates on cases of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (rule 135) and firstly for a debate on six motions for resolutions on the dissolution of the ngo memorial (sakharov prize 2009) in russia (2014/2903 ((rsp)).
author. - madam president, if there is one country on which the european parliament has no shortage of urgent resolutions, it is russia. it is true that the human rights situation is a matter of concern there, but it is much worse in many other countries, on which it is difficult to have a debate. i'm sorry about that. for example, it has been 12 years since we had a debate on the situation in eritrea. yes, memorial is a remarkable association and a symbol of the repression of human rights defenders in russia. regular searches, police confiscation of archives, arrests, looting of premises and physical assaults are his daily lot, especially since the passing of the law on foreign agents. that's a sad word. today, it is threatened with dissolution. other ngos are facing the same fate, being forced to pay exorbitant fines, often forcing them to dissolve. i signed this resolution and i'm going to vote for it. but i'm not sure that this is the best way to help human rights defenders in russia. mr. putin is not very sensitive to this type of message. at most he is able to heal his image, as he did at the time of the sochi olympics.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. former minister of foreign affairs of the republic of moldova.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights in uzbekistan (2014/2904 ((rsp)).
author. - madam president, uzbekistan is a dictatorship without complexes, one of the most corrupt countries in the world, which knows how to attract the good graces of all. the united states has been a backbone of the afghan army, and now it buys weapons from france, germany and britain, which it then uses against the civilian population. mr. karimov also knows how to maintain good relations with russia and china. the uzbek people are the big losers who, whether the wall fell or not, have not seen much change. thousands of people are languishing in prison; they are being abused, tortured and awaiting trial, some for over twenty years. in this context, this resolution is welcome there has not been one since 2007 but it is very weak. that is why we did not sign it, not least because it was difficult to mention the issue of cotton, forced labour and the work of ngos in this field. there is a partnership here, but it was barely excised in 2005 when there were almost a thousand deaths. what a pity! the uzbek people have the right to the same attention as the russian people.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions concerning the disappearance of 43 schoolchildren in mexico (2014/2905 ((rsp))
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president, i am intervening under rule 188 to request a referral back to committee. the accelerated procedure, which has been sought to be imposed on the commission, is clearly intended to put pressure on the electoral process which is due to take place in ukraine this weekend. to this end, a sloppy and unnecessary study was provided to the committee members on the consequences of these agreements for the european economy, which is already doing so badly. it is unworthy of serious parliamentary work. we therefore ask for it to be referred back to committee so that we can analyse the risks to our economies under normal conditions.
in writing. this report, which aims to amend regulation (eu) no 374/2014, aims to reduce or eliminate customs duties on goods originating in ukraine. following the negotiation of an association agreement between the eu and ukraine for the period 2007-2011 on the establishment of a free trade area and its signature on 27 june, the regulation should therefore be extended until 31 december 2015. even though ukraine is experiencing significant tensions, the current eu policy can only lead to a deterioration in our relations with russia. the report states that according to statistics, ukraine's exports to the eu increased sharply in early 2014 (+25% or usd 587 million) while those to russia decreased (-24.5% or usd 592 million). the report highlights the opportunity for ukraine, through these trade measures, to diversify its outlets and encourage its adaptation to the standards required in the eu, ahead of the full free trade agreement in 2016. in view of the economic crisis we are experiencing, however, reason would have us reject this agreement both from the political point of view (our relations with russia risk deteriorating) and from the economic point of view (the total opening of borders and free trade have only caused relocations, unemployment and deindustrialisation in the countries of western europe). that is why i voted against it.
in writing. - the european parliament has taken the irresponsible decision to strengthen trade relations between the european union and ukraine. the economic association policy with ukraine, as it is being pursued today, has the direct effect of worsening relations between the eu member states and russia. france has no economic or political interest in maintaining a nato-desired cold war climate. worse still, while we see everywhere that the enlargement of the union to include the eastern european countries has created unfair competition between workers and caused massive relocations to these countries, the european parliament proposes to continue this suicidal policy by extending the application of regulation (eu) no 374/2014 on the reduction or elimination of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine, a country where the average monthly salary is barely usd 292! this reduction in customs duties will mean even more job losses and unemployment for our compatriots. that is why i voted against the extension of this regulation.
in writing. - this text aims to help ukraine cope with the political, economic and security crisis in the country. it will eliminate or reduce customs duties on goods originating in ukraine and thus support its external trade. moreover, in the current context, the swift approval by parliament proves that the union is capable of acting promptly and decisively while respecting its political commitments.
in writing. after several months of political crisis, aggravated by the conflict in the west of ukraine, the country is experiencing a dramatic economic situation. it therefore needs the help of the european union. until the entry into force of the eu-ukraine association agreement in january 2016, the union should continue to grant tariff preferences to ukrainian products exported to the european market. these unilateral trade preferences remove 94.7% of the eu customs duties applied to imports of industrial goods from ukraine. they also remove eu customs duties on over 80% of ukrainian agricultural exports. however, the eu has restricted zero-duty amounts for 'sensitive' products such as cereals, pork, beef, poultry and processed foods so that they do not harm the interests of european producers. in return, ukraine is obliged to respect eu health standards, as well as human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. this process aims to enable the country to modernise, reform and actively fight against corruption. the large victory of pro-western ukrainian parties in the parliamentary elections is, from this point of view, a guarantee.
in writing. - i voted in favour of extending until the end of 2015 the lifting of customs barriers for ukrainian exports to the european union. this exceptional measure responds to the exceptional nature of the situation in ukraine. the union has a moral duty to this partner, which is under immense pressure from russia in the economic, military and energy fields. while these measures have, according to initial estimates, kept the activities of ukrainian enterprises and industries afloat, with exports increasing by between 10 and 25% in the first part of the year, they must not create the conditions for unfair competition with our own enterprises and place further burdens on european farmers. on this last point i shall be firm and if i find that our support is endangering the commercial activities of european firms, industries and agriculture, i shall consider these measures again in the sense of rebalancing.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr gabrielius landsbergis on customs duties on goods originating in ukraine. the measures adopted will help to alleviate the burden of russian sanctions on the ukrainian economy.
in writing. this text is in continuity with the desire of the european institutions to integrate ukraine economically, forcing it to make the absurd choice of development prospects with the eu countries at the expense of its main external market, russia, with which it is de facto united by strong cultural ties. as the application of the eu-ukraine association agreement has been postponed until 31 december 2015, the commission proposes to extend the eu regulation on the reduction of customs duties in trade between the eu and ukraine to 1 november 2014. as i am opposed to this association agreement which was the trigger for the ukrainian crisis, i am voting against it. in addition, this text is conditional on ukraine respecting fundamental principles related to human rights, democracy and the rule of law. but these conditions are clearly not being met in ukraine: the use of cluster munitions banned in civilian areas, the banning of the communist party, the banning of certain television channels, censorship laws, the presence of neo-nazis in the government. i am therefore surprised that such a proposal has even been put to us.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text which goes hand in hand with the association agreements we voted last month. the eu-ukraine association agreements, which were approved at an extraordinary meeting, will take effect in december 2015. in order to avoid a legal vacuum and the loss of our trade gains in ukraine, we have extended the free trade agreements in force until 31 december 2014 until the end of next year.
in writing. - i voted to extend favorable customs measures to ukraine. it must be understood that if ukraine falls economically, europe will suffer too. we are therefore temporarily helping ukraine to resist the russian embargo by facilitating access for its products to the european market. for now, it shows its effectiveness and yet we do not feel invaded by ukrainian products! it's a small gesture for europe, a giant support for ukraine. we must at all costs prevent ukraine from being able to pay its gas bills to russia, and thus prevent the collapse of the country. because if the taps shut down, we're at the end of the reservoir as winter approaches. this is a situation that must be avoided at all costs.
in writing. the commission notes that the measures were imposed on the basis of the information provided by the goc and the sampled exporting producers. however, following the trilateral meeting between ukraine, the european union and russia, the eu agreed to delay the implementation of the trade part of its association agreement with ukraine until december 2015. i voted in favour of this report so that ukraine can continue to benefit from trade preferences without interruption and so that the european union can prove that it can act quickly and decisively. in addition, the european union continues and reaffirms its objectives, as ukraine will be required to respect eu health standards as well as human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law in order to benefit from these preferential trade measures.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to give a discharge to the management committee of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications on the implementation of the 2012 budget. in view of the comments which are an integral part of this discharge, i have voted against this vote. the comments call for the office to exercise better control over its future budget, given the budget implementation rates of 89.55% and the payment appropriations rates of 76.57%. as with the general eu budget, the rate of committed appropriations cancelled and carried over to 2013 is worrying: 28% (against 45% in the previous budget year!). similarly, unused appropriations still amount to 14,6% in 2013 (17% in 2012). finally, i would also like to deplore the lack of transparency in the office and note that it has just included in its financial manual a detailed and binding checklist for the award of contracts and the appointment of a contracting officer...
in writing. - each eu agency is allocated a budget to ensure its proper functioning. the european parliament and the council shall take joint decisions on this budget. it is therefore up to parliament to control the expenditure of the european agencies. the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) had shown some difficulties in implementing its activities, particularly in recruitment and procurement procedures. parliament had therefore voted in favour of postponing the discharge decision to a later date. now, the cor has set about correcting these deficiencies. parliament therefore decided to grant discharge to the institution in question. i voted for discharge.
in writing. - the postponement of the discharge vote last april for the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) has borne fruit. the agency has taken measures to address the problems identified, such as weaknesses in recruitment procedures and the significant room for improvement in public procurement procedures. that is why i voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the discharge for the 2012 budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. during the summer, berec adopted the measures requested by the european parliament on recruitment and procurement procedures, removing the last obstacles to the granting of discharge.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. the purpose of this is to give the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications a discharge for the financial year 2013. this quitus was rejected by parliament in april 2013 due to shortcomings in the budget and financial management, commitments and deferrals, procurement and recruitment procedures and final annual accounts. measures were taken by berec to improve the situation of commitments and carryovers, as well as improved budget planning and strict monthly and year-end control of payments. however, since the 2013 budget was implemented in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for that year is problematic. i vote against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text which gives financial discharge to the european parliament after a postponement decided last spring. this new body was set up in parallel with the discussions on the future of telecoms to harmonise the different regulations in the member states. the launch of the body has been challenging and the horeco has put in place important measures to address this this summer. the financial discharge is now justified as sufficient guarantees have been provided.
in writing. - the digital economy is one of the european union's spearheads, within which the office of the body of european regulators for communications works to ensure that markets for new technologies are properly regulated. in this connection, it is necessary to be more vigilant about any shortcomings in the use of the accounts of this body, but also to take account of their correct correction. i therefore support this report because without parliament's approval of the accounts this young institution could not begin to function fully.
in writing. - last april, the european parliament decided to postpone the discharge to the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec), because of its weaknesses in budget management and planning. it was necessary to give berec time to convince parliament of its ability to correct its weak points. since that postponement decision, checks have been carried out and solutions have been found; it is in this sense that i have supported this report which gives discharge to berec for the financial year 2012.
in writing. this report, which proposes that we refuse to give the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2012, illustrates in itself all the difficulties facing the european union. on the one hand, there is a desire for eurofederalism at any cost, and on the other, there are natural differences (cultural, historical or economic) between the peoples and countries of europe which cannot be denied. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to bring about a change in the legal framework. this report highlights several points that are worth mentioning about the functioning of the eu. for example, errors in the design of procurement procedures or the lack of transparency of the european institutions. documents requested by parliament are not being sent and, even better, it is recognised that this is becoming a worrying symptom of a certain undemocratic practice in the union's institutions. bossuet would say that god laughs at men who lament the effects of things they cherish. i have nevertheless voted in favour of this text in principle.
in writing. - in view of the council's constant refusal to cooperate with parliament in the discharge procedure, we have decided to refuse to grant it discharge. it should be recalled that discharge is the political part of the external control of budget implementation. in so doing, the council is thus opposing parliament's right of control, whereas parliament, as the house of the people, is entitled to expect close cooperation from the council. only by taking such a stand would parliament be able to make an informed decision.
in writing. the european parliament, the budgetary authority of the european union, did not grant the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2012 budget. by refusing to answer our questions, the council is failing in its duty to inform european citizens and taxpayers. to grant discharge, we need access to the accounts. as long as the council refuses to comply with it, the european parliament cannot give discharge. this is the very principle of democratic control which our parliament must exercise.
in writing. - since the council does not reply to the many questions put to it by the european parliament concerning its budget, it is not possible for the european parliament to give the discharge to the european council and the council in full knowledge of the facts.
in writing. parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all the european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. the question is whether the budget of the european council and the council should be discharged. the text recalls the systematic difficulties encountered so far in the discharge procedures, which are attributable to a lack of cooperation on the part of the council. it points out that parliament refused to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge for the financial years 2009, 2010 and 2011 and that it postponed its decision to grant the discharge for the financial year 2012. the resolution confirms that parliament is not in a position to decide on the discharge for 2013 in full knowledge of the facts. i am voting for this text, which is without illusions about the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which refuses to give the council financial discharge. the discharge procedure is a mechanism by which the european parliament exercises ex post facto democratic political control over the way the budget of the european union is used. there is no suspicion of financial mismanagement by the council. however, the council has consistently refused to answer the european parliament's questions on the implementation of its budget. since 2009, the council has not received a discharge. the reason for this decision was to ensure that the prerogatives of the european parliament were respected and to ensure that every citizen had a clear view of the use of european funds.
in writing. - the requirement of transparency of the expenditure of the european institutions is a sine qua non of the confidence of the citizens of the union in their representatives. in this sense, i urge the authorities to clarify the doubts raised by this report, which i support.
in writing. - like many of my colleagues, i supported the refusal to grant discharge to the european council and the council for the execution of the budget for the financial year 2012, as i have done every year since 2009. parliament has already had the opportunity to make its point. i would simply point out that cooperation between all the eu institutions is essential to ensure the smooth running of the discharge procedure, in particular by the proper transmission of documents. but to date the council has not fulfilled this obligation and has failed to answer our legitimate questions as the official discharge authority. this behaviour does not guarantee the full transparency of the european system which we are calling for and which citizens are demanding.
in writing. - last april, parliament decided to postpone the discharge to the council in order to give it more time to comply with the provisions on the clearance of accounts. however, despite our requests, we have not received details of the costs of constructing the new europa building of the european council and we note that the council has not responded to our recommendations. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report and therefore to refuse to grant discharge to the council and the european council. it is urgent that these two institutions listen to parliament and take its recommendations into account.
in writing. - the european parliament has a right to review the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the eu institutions and bodies, through the procedure known as annual budgetary discharge. in april 2014, a large majority of the european parliament decided to postpone the discharge to the council for its 2012 budget, in particular because of the weakness of the council's responses in the hearings and the written question procedure, the lack of an anti-fraud policy in the general secretariat of the council, weaknesses in the procurement procedure. the european parliament has deferred its discharge to the council since 2007 without exception. i voted in favour of the ep report refusing to grant discharge to the council, as it did not reply to the requests for information. the european parliament thus reaffirms for the first time its role as the eu's budgetary authority and shows that the council is not above the other eu institutions or its budgetary principles, including legality, accountability, transparency and cooperation.
in writing. in the european union, more than 40 000 people are employed in the river transport sector, of whom 31 000 (77%) are mobile workers. this report, which is in favour of greater social protection for these workers, leaves the member states and/or the social partners free to adopt measures which are more favourable to workers in this field. this is a prerequisite for the development of inland waterway transport which must be encouraged. for these reasons, i support the european agreement between the european union for inland navigation (uenf), the european boat owners' organisation (ebo) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on certain (positive) aspects of the organisation of work in the inland waterway sector.
in writing. - the vote on this text is important for two reasons. firstly, it demonstrates the capacity to form agreements at eu level between the social partners. secondly, i welcome the fact that the european parliament has been consulted on this proposal for a directive implementing the europe agreement concluded by the european union of inland navigation (uenf), the european boat owners' organisation (ebo) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) even though the treaty does not provide for any obligation to do so. this is a positive sign for strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the european union's decisions.
in writing. inland waterway professionals are subject to irregular work patterns. the ships sail an average of 14 hours a day, often for several consecutive days. hence the need to implement a specific legislation on working time for cabin crew, as the general working time directive does not allow for these specific needs to be taken into account. the transposition of the agreement between the social partners on minimum requirements for working time on ships is a good answer. workers in this sector will now be able to benefit from legislation adapted to their activity. the proposal for a directive makes compulsory the agreement of 15 february 2012 between the social partners (european union of inland navigation, european shipowners' organisation and european transport workers' federation) on the organisation of working time in inland navigation, which sets out certain minimum guarantees for workers (working time, rest periods, annual leave). the text thus endorses the principle of increased use of dialogue between the social partners to develop union social law. this is a necessary step towards enhancing european social democracy, which i am committed to.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleague marita ulvskog on working time in the shipping industry. the text calls on the commission to ratify an agreement proposed by the various professional organisations in the inland waterway sector to supplement the directive on working time, taking account of the specific features of this sector and aiming at harmonising the rules applicable in the various member states. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, for which i was the rapporteur for the french delegation of the epp. the aim of the report is to recommend the introduction of a directive implementing the european agreement concluded by the social partners in the inland waterway sector. the agreement will fill the void left by the working time directive for inland waterway carriers and will help to combat social dumping. it includes working and rest times, holidays, seasonal work and the safety and health of workers. this text sets minimum requirements for the member states, which will remain free to set their own rules.
in writing. - the text which has been tabled is a resolution setting out parliament's position on the agreement between the trade unions and employers on the working time of boatmen. these seafarers are in a bolkestein-type situation in that they can practise their profession in a state other than the one in which their contract is established, which can create a situation of social dumping on their working conditions. the agreement negotiated between the trade unions and the employers on the working time of boatmen is a step forward, as it introduces minimum working and rest times. however, this agreement does not solve the problem of dumping in the profession which will continue because of the differences between the various labour rights. i therefore abstained in order not to block this minimum resulting from the european social dialogue, which is still lower than that practiced in france and therefore leaves open the possibility of unfair competition between european shipbuilders.
in writing. an agreement was reached on 15 february 2012 between the social partners (european inland navigation union, european boat owners' organisation and european transport workers' federation) on the organisation of working time in inland navigation. it lays down certain guarantees for workers: working time, rest periods, annual leave. the proposal aims to give effect to the terms of the agreement following an initial opposition by the council. i vote for it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text, which now ensures minimum harmonization of working time in the inland waterway sector. this text is the validation of an agreement between the social partners which sets a maximum ceiling for hours worked. this is not a regulation of working time in the traditional sense, but rather an agreement to eliminate social dumping and the most extreme practices. the inland waterway sector (mainly river transport) has an important future in achieving our environmental objectives and reindustrialising europe. the text provides flexibility for workers in order not to penalise them and to maintain the competitiveness of the sector.
in writing. - i supported this resolution which recommends adopting the european commission's proposal on specific regulations on working time in the inland waterway sector. this text is the result of an agreement reached at european level by the representatives of employers and workers in the sector. this agreement lays down minimum requirements for working time on passenger and cargo ships. it will enable satisfactory working conditions and adequate rest periods for workers in the sector to be established; essential conditions for the health and safety of the crew and cabin crew. the agreement was urgently needed, given that more than 75% of inland waterway transport within the european union is transnational. these measures would ultimately contribute to better working conditions for 31000 workers and to fairer competition between the 9645 companies in the sector.
in writing. - i voted against this european parliament resolution on a proposal for a commission directive on an agreement between the social partners on the organization of work in inland waterway transport. in this area, the european parliament can only give an opinion on this sector excluded from the working time directive. i found that not all the unions had participated in the negotiations and that while this agreement could improve social provisions in some member states, it was very regressive for the law applicable in france. although the agreement provides that more favourable provisions in the member states will be maintained, the provisions of the country where the vessel is moored will apply when navigating on a 'cross-border' river route. there is no doubt that the societies which can apply the most favourable law will seek the solutions which will enable them to be the most competitive at the expense of social rights. i can therefore only see it as an instrument of social dumping to the detriment of french employees and dockers in particular. the agreement, although it is accompanied by improvements in some member states, is a means of levelling down the social acquis.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr juncker, i do not know whether you are personally guilty, having had to resign from your government after a scandal involving the special services, but what i do know is that you were for a very long time not only prime minister but also minister for economic affairs and finance, and that you pursued an extraordinarily aggressive policy towards your european neighbours. with a consummate, i must say, distribution expertise, you use the scandal that has affected you to ask us to increase your skills. but, mr juncker, we do not need to harmonize - in fact, to unify - tax laws. all that is needed is a very simple rule to be implemented, according to which multinational companies will be taxed in each member state on the basis of the turnover or profits they make there. this will be enough to end the fictitious situation that is yours. i know that even in the socialist benches, mrs pervenche berès approves of your appointment, saying that you may be a godfather (a godfather of the mafia - mrs berès is speaking) repented. i know that napoleon and, after him, king louis xviii appointed the tramp and former forced laborer vidocq as chief of police, and he carried out his duties extremely effectively. but you have to admit that, by this logic, it's as if the former killer of single women, landru, had been appointed minister of the status of women. it's still a little much to ask. we're hearing about an investigation, but the investigation will be done by your services. i agree with what mr verhofstadt said about the need for an independent inquiry. i do not throw the first stone at you, as christ did not want to do to the adulterous woman, for those here who are sinners should be the first to go. these are the same people who voted for the free movement of capital, without any controls, to the benefit of the multinationals.
madam president, commissioner, since you are president juncker's left ear, please tell him that we have given him our full confidence. he is now president of the commission, he has the monopoly of initiative and we are therefore expecting him at the meeting he has with this parliament. to clarify this point, because there is obviously not just one luxleaks - others have said this before me, these cases of tax evasion or fraud exist in other member states - we think that a committee of inquiry can be useful. in the meantime, we would like to hear your answers to the questions put here by our president, mr gianni pittella, on the suspension of banking licences for those who assist tax evasion and on the question of country-by-country reporting of profits and taxes. i have heard jean-claude juncker argue in favour of tax competition and i must confess to my surprise, because this tax competition is always unfair. it becomes unacceptable in times of crisis, in times of near-deflation. the european parliament has given its confidence to jean-claude juncker, a committed european. now it's up to him to prove us right.
madam president, i just wanted to say that mr langen spoke twice; he spoke to me and now i am not able to answer. that is unfair.
madam president, i thank the court of auditors for the clarity of this report. the financial management of the european union has still not proved satisfactory. the union spends its budget with the main concern of spending to spend, without concern for certain consequences and certain results linked to this expenditure. we also record expenditure made in breach of the rules, which the court calls 'errors' and which very often amount to fraud in the proper sense, particularly in the field of public procurement. this clearly raises the problem of corruption on certain projects at european level. add to this the financial commitments still to be settled, amounting to some 322 billion euros, and you will understand why fewer and fewer citizens trust this system. this is all the more shocking because the commission has the right to admonish sovereign states on principles which it is unable to apply itself.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the court of auditors' report on the 2013 eu budget shows that almost €7 billion was spent 'by mistake' (€6.97 billion to be exact), which still represents 4.7% of the total budget. the 'errors' are particularly important in rural development (6.7%) and regional policy (6.9%). the court even cites a few examples of "wrongly made errors" when, in many cases, these are actual frauds. for example, a slovenian sme was subsidised while being a subsidiary of large automotive groups. even better, in several countries, land that was subsidized as permanent pasture has been partially or completely covered with wood. the european union requires member states, subject to the budgetary treaty, to control their public expenditure, but it does not apply to itself the principles of good management which it advocates. in the face of this overwhelming observation, i would be even more vigilant about the use of european public funds, the waste of which is an affront to the thousands of taxpayers subject to austerity and ultra-liberal policies. it is high time that we demand from this technocratic europe exemplary transparency in the management of public money.
in writing. the court of auditors' report underlines, in its section on regional policy, that of 180 operations audited, nearly 102 were affected by irregularities, or almost 57% of the total number of operations audited. as such, breaches of public procurement rules account for more than 30% of the error rate estimated by the court. these figures reflect the failure of cohesion policy, which, far from promoting the convergence of member states' economies, finances projects that are too often oversized and not effectively monitored by the certification authorities. many member states have a financial envelope that is not adequate for their administrative capacity to absorb european funds. the court noted that this tension increased as the end of the period of eligibility approached. unspent funds are used to reimburse ineligible costs or to finance projects that are too expensive or unlikely to produce the expected results. the court's report shows that a complete overhaul of regional policy must be carried out in the primary interest of the contributing member states.
in writing. the european court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2013 demonstrates that once again the european union and its institutions are operating in complete disconnection from reality. this gigantic administrative and technocratic machine is being run irresponsibly. it is clear that the union's expenditure is only too modestly subject to the logic of performance and efficiency. without a clear objective, it is a question of spending appropriations to spend appropriations. such an illustrative absurdity of the european union. more importantly, the expenditure side has almost €7 billion in errors, partly due to the lack of rigour in the distribution of eu funds. this is equivalent to one third of france's contribution to the community budget. this is all the more shocking given that the european union has nearly €30 billion in unpaid bills. finally, there is little hope that the system will be reformed, as the court's recommendations rarely reach the ears of european leaders, but let us remember that this insane technocracy lives on the backs of the people.
in writing. the court of auditors notes that it is the complexity of the system you have created that is the problem, rather than fraud. i'm in a position to testify to that. as a farmer, i am inundated with the regulatory requirements of the european union, responsible for this increase in controls (certified seeds, control of pesticide application in the field, plant health room, new equipment standards, nitrate and plant health directives, plot areas, etc.), which even the departmental chambers of agriculture have difficulty carrying out. technocrats disconnected from the reality of the field have created a totally administered agriculture. i therefore call on the european commission to put an end to over-regulation in the agricultural sector.
in writing. the court of auditors has carried out precise and valuable audit work. it thus provides us with a comprehensive and well-documented document on the management of the 2013 budget of the european union, which once again supports our analysis of certain budgetary irregularities found. the european union is following the same unrelenting financial and budgetary policy: spending more and more without taking account of the real revenue it has at its disposal. a foolish logic which, when applied by private individuals, leads them inexorably to over-indebtedness... the court of auditors also reveals in its annual report serious cases of breach of the rules, which it calls 'errors', but which are similar to fraud, particularly in public procurement... if citizens are losing confidence in this europe, there are obvious reasons for this, and the court of auditors lists some of them here. finally, it should be noted that in budgetary matters the european union imposes on the member states rigorous rules and regulations which it is clearly incapable of applying to itself!
the agenda calls for the debate on the commission statement on the northern ireland peace process (2014/2906 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr juncker. he has moved our debates, so we are almost two hours late. he's out to dinner and we're working on some important stuff. but what's the problem tonight? is it mr juncker or is it turkey? i would just like to say one thing to the commission. today you are referring the cyprus issue back to this house, but you have never done anything for cyprus. you're making people cry in the shacks, but i don't think you're gonna make it work again. i would say that we are in favour of balanced and fair international relations between sovereign states. we are, of course, defending the exclusive economic zones, which are the hallmark of the guardianship of the states over their immediate maritime spaces. today, these zones must be respected by all states, including turkey, which is not a signatory to the convention - all the more so today, when the republic of cyprus is involved. i think that we should - and i am addressing the commission - respect...
mr president, commissioner, what a disappointment after the hopes of 11 february 2014. our position must be clear, of course: how could the european union fail to condemn in the strongest terms the violation of international law and a clear aggression against one of its member states? i would like to say that i fully support the commissioner's remarks. we must not talk about the cold war, but keep our heads and consider that we must ask turkey for clarification, which also means that we, on our part, clearly state that we want turkey to be able to join the european union and to deepen the discussions. that is why i believe that rather than inflaming the conflict that is taking place today with declarations, we must play the role of appeasement and firmness on international law, and promote hope and prospects for the region and turkey. (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, nobody here, and this is the futility of our debates, will contradict you on the need to respect international law. i started by saying it. at the same time, you are no doubt interested in the situation in the whole region and you know turkey's strategic position, and you know our concerns about a number of recent turkish attitudes, particularly with regard to the conflicts in syria and iraq. i therefore believe that we must both condemn very strongly - i have said this - and at the same time consider that we must maintain dialogue with turkey.
mr president, the humanitarian situation in south sudan is, as my colleagues before me have pointed out, very worrying indeed. since december last year, south sudan has been in a state of civil war, with ethnic conflict as its backdrop. the victims of this conflict number in the thousands and violations of human rights are daily occurrences. nearly 1.4 million people are internally displaced and about 500,000 have sought refuge in neighbouring countries. the humanitarian needs are enormous and access for ngo staff on the ground is difficult. it is important that our parliament, by adopting a resolution on the subject, reminds the international community of the need to support the peace process in south sudan and to honour its commitments to finance it. the european union is a major donor - it allocated 130 million in 2014 - but the needs are enormous.
mr president, as you have said time and again since the beginning of this debate, south sudan is experiencing a dramatic crisis which is both a humanitarian catastrophe, directly affecting the population, especially the most vulnerable, and a civil war whose outcome is not clear. we are in a situation where, despite the efforts of the european union in terms of humanitarian aid and taking responsibility with the imposition of sanctions, we are not getting results. in view of this situation, it is a good initiative to adopt a resolution to effectively remind the international conscience that this issue must be given priority in the midst of, unfortunately, so many other conflicts. we must increase our humanitarian aid, we must do more, but we must also support the peace process. from this point of view, the conclusion we can draw from the inadequacy of the european sanctions is that we should not blame the european union, but we should ask ourselves, as my colleague ana gomes has just done, whether it is necessary to take sanctions at another level and, in particular, to ask the un to become more involved. we need to put pressure on the political process which alone can unlock the effectiveness of humanitarian aid.
in writing. south sudan is experiencing a critical time. the humanitarian situation is simply appalling. south sudanese are forced to leave their homes and sometimes even their own country to seek refuge in neighbouring countries. there is a severe shortage of food and water, and there is an urgent need for medical care for the victims. the civil war in south sudan, which has been raging for almost a year, has caused irreparable damage. the european union has already set up many programmes to meet the most urgent needs of the local population. more than one third of international humanitarian aid was provided by the union. we must not stop there! within the limits of the european budget, we must do everything in our power to help the victims of these abominations. member states also have to take responsibility for such a crisis. the european union stands for peace and freedom beyond its borders. we must not stop at words, we must act! i welcome the efforts already made by the european union and hope that this aid will continue.
mr president, the agreement on the european economic area allows countries like norway to cooperate with the european union in specific areas, negotiated on a case-by-case basis. today we are being asked to extend this cooperation - and i quote - to 'actions in favour of migrants, including migrants from third countries'. this reflects the desire to improve the situation of immigrants and i consider this desire anachronistic, because it will encourage more immigrants to come to europe. the european states are facing a major economic crisis and cannot afford to take in people fleeing poverty who will be their dependents. the proposal under discussion today is all the more anachronistic because it runs counter to the realism of the court of justice of the european union. in a judgment delivered yesterday, 11 november, the court recognised the right of the states to refuse social assistance to immigrants who are not working. the conclusion is that the european parliament is completely cut off from social realities.
mr president, the regulation establishing a european union programme for employment and social innovation was adopted on 11 december last, less than a year ago. that regulation provides for a mid-term evaluation on 1 july 2017. i think it is particularly urgent to extend its application to the economic free trade association states, members of the european economic area. the extension of this regulation also seems particularly risky, especially after the decision of the court of justice of the european union yesterday, which recalls that the conditions for granting social benefits are the sole responsibility of the member states. according to the court, a state has the right to exclude nationals of other member states from the benefit of certain social benefits. as a french member of parliament, i regret that my country refuses to accept such a restriction, since in france social benefits are sometimes also paid to non-community foreigners, including those who have entered our territory illegally.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i am very much in favour of freedom of expression; i myself have suffered in my country very serious violations of my freedom of speech simply because i dared to express political opinions that are not liked by everyone. i think it is essential that, in this parliament at least, there should be a kind of haven of peace which promotes respect for the freedom of expression of everyone and i ask you, mr simon, if you are as committed to that freedom of expression as i am, because i was extremely shocked by the way in which you seem to exercise thought police over mr de graaff's remarks.
in writing. this amendment, which incorporates into the eea agreement eu-funded projects for the free movement of workers and actions in favour of migrants, accompanies the strengthening of economic and social rights in europe. migrant workers, including those from third countries, must be able to assert their social security rights and have easier access to the european labour market. it is essential that the union, together with the eea countries, should finance projects to this end. many voices are being raised in europe to restrict the free movement of persons, a fundamental freedom on which our union is built. the idea of undermining this freedom is intolerable, because it means trying to reform barriers within europe and shutting ourselves in. let us stop pointing the finger at migrant workers in europe as the cause of the crisis. on the contrary, mobility and openness will help to reorient europe on the path to growth, through the sharing of skills and the enrichment of our economies through the arrival of new talent. against the rhetoric of rejection and hatred of the other, europe must remain strong to defend the free movement of people while continuing to open up to the world.
mr president, although jean-claude juncker declared in october that no further enlargement of the european union would be accepted under his mandate, the european parliament is nevertheless redoubling its efforts to prepare the accession of candidate countries such as georgia, ukraine and moldova. that is why you are putting to the vote a report in favour of the signing of an association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. your frantic appetite for enlargement is driving the peoples of europe into the wall of savage competition and social dumping. and what more tragic example could there be than the opening up of the european union to moldova? this nation has already benefited from the european union's generosity between 2007 and 2014 for an amount of more than one billion euros. it is one of the poorest countries on the continent, with almost 30% of its population living below the poverty line and a minimum wage of just 43 euros per month. worse, in moldova, whose integration efforts you praise in your angelic report, the underground economy accounts for almost 40% of gdp. in addition, you are daily trying to condemn the alleged deviations of russia and other countries from the human rights creed. however, you do not notice that according to the international organization for migration, moldova is one of the leading source countries of human trafficking, with over 3,000 victims recorded between 2000 and 2012. in conclusion, we ask that this association agreement be put to a referendum in all the member states of the union. you can count on us to call on the sovereign nations to reject any new association or enlargement plans. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is "blue cardboard". i think we're going in the same direction actually.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i am a member of the committee on agriculture and i would like to take mr grzyb to meet european farmers, to show him the crises they are experiencing, crisis after crisis. my question, mr grzyb, is very clear: knowing that european farmers are already suffering from the russian embargo and that we have just decided in the commission to allocate the sum of 448 million for moldovan fruit and vegetables, do you want to continue this enlargement and murder european farmers?
in writing. - i am committed to freedom of expression and voted in favour of this report which opposes the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of anna gomes: the grounds for this request do not seem to me to be justified.
in writing. - this report, which calls for us to refuse to waive the parliamentary immunity of ana gomes, is based on the principle that condemning the statements made by the mep to the minister of national defence of the portuguese government would be tantamount to preventing her from exercising her parliamentary mandate and would be in flagrant contradiction with the raison d'être of article 8 of protocol 7 on the privileges and immunities of the eu. the case had also led to an investigation by the european commission for breach of eu state aid rules. in particular, i would like to speak out against the demands for the waiver of parliamentary immunities which reflect the terrible anxiety of the caste in the face of a political leader who has the courage to tell the truth to her fellow citizens, as was the case for marine le pen in her time who had fought for respect for secularism. but at that time, parliament had voted to lift the immunity... i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - because mrs ana gomes has only shamelessly exercised her right to freedom of expression by accusing the portuguese minister of national defence, parliament must not lift her parliamentary immunity at the risk of threatening the right to freedom of expression of members of the european parliament. the case also reminds us that marine le pen, the president of the front national, had been the subject of a request for the waiver of her parliamentary immunity, which had been approved by the european parliament. as a tireless defender of freedom of expression, i voted in favour of this report rejecting the waiver of parliamentary immunity of ana gomes.
in writing. - mireille d'ornano voted in favour of the report opposing the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of ana gomes because she remains firmly committed to freedom of speech and opposed to disproportionate prosecutions which put the person concerned in serious difficulty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague heidi hautala on the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity of ana gomes, which rejects the request by the portuguese prosecutor-general to prosecute mrs gomes for aggravated defamation against one of the members of the government and a port company, in connection with the process of sub-concessioning a public shipyard in her country. the report was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - in favour of freedom of expression, i voted against the waiver of ms gomes' immunity, in accordance with my positions in the legal affairs committee meetings prior to this vote during which her case was being considered. it is regrettable that our opponents did not have the same willingness to defend freedom of expression when mrs le pen's case was examined, since her immunity had been waived.
in writing. - the report proposes not to waive the parliamentary immunity of ana gomes, portuguese social democrat member of parliament. the act charged by the lisbon prosecutor, requiring the waiver of immunity, refers to remarks made during a debate on portuguese television in which the mep had said: 'it is criminal, there are no other words, this minister of defence is incompetent or even truly malicious, we must verify the links between his law firm and the martifer company, which really exerts influence in all political parties ... why did the government terminate the navy's contracts? because he wants to suffocate the shipyards, get rid of the workers to do martifer a favor, that's all"... in the name of defending the freedom of speech of elected officials, i vote for it.
in writing. in this report we are asked to refuse the waiver of parliamentary immunity of ana gomes on the grounds that condemning the mep's remarks on the minister of national defence of the portuguese government would amount to depriving her of the right to exercise her parliamentary mandate, in total contradiction to article 8 of protocol 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. in general, i oppose these requests for the waiver of parliamentary immunity where they affect freedom of expression and political debate. we will remember the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen because she had dared to ask for respect for secularism. parliament had obviously voted to lift his immunity... i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. it is precisely to protect parliamentarians from arbitrary prosecutions motivated by more political than legal reasons that they have been granted immunity. it is out of the question for me to waive the immunity of mrs gomes, who has only done her duty as a citizen by denouncing the scandalous facts of which she had been made aware.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, knowing that this 'adjustment fund' is only a first step: if the european union really wants to combat the harmful effects of globalisation, it must renounce the dogma of the free movement of goods and people and no longer stand in the way of the introduction of protectionist measures. in the meantime, i am in favour of using this fund to help european employees, as was the case recently for psa employees.
in writing. - this report on the european globalisation adjustment fund, requested by ireland for a financial contribution from the egf following 171 redundancies at andersen ireland limited, a company in the jewellery and jewellery sector, seeks to mobilise a total amount of eur 1 501 200. the total number of beneficiaries is 276 as ireland offers aid to dismissed workers and also to a maximum of 138 unemployed young people. this closure will deal a severe blow to this region of ireland already hit hard by mass unemployment (39%), twice the national average. this is the result of the ultra-liberal policies and forced globalisation that the european union is calling for, a sad contradiction. nevertheless, in order to help the retraining of employees and the integration of young people, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - ireland is requesting the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to the amount of eur 1 501 200 for the conversion of 171 employees made redundant by ie/andersen ireland limited. the company had been facing unfair competition for several years from low-cost countries outside the eu, such as china, india, thailand, turkey, azerbaijan, vietnam, tunisia, mexico, etc. china alone accounted for 83% of the production imported into the eu in 2007. in addition, there is the development of global, borderless internet sales. in this sector, thousands of sales representatives have been replaced by virtual online sales models. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to smbv was compatible with the internal market. in this case, the european union is acting as a fireman. it gives aid to companies which it helps to weaken by refusing to protect them from the savage globalization. however, in view of the dramatic economic and social situation in ireland, i voted in favour of this aid to these unemployed workers.
in writing. - parliament approved the request for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund from ireland for the jewellery manufacturer andersen ireland limited. the company was forced to lay off a large number of its employees as a result of strong competition from third countries. the dismissed employees will receive training aimed at reintegration into the labour market and job search. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. the redundancies in question are a double-edged economic and social drama. on the one hand, they occur in a rural area of ireland with an unemployment rate twice the national average. on the other hand, the redundancies mainly affect women whose wages are often the only or most important source of income for all families in the region. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is providing 60% of the total cost of services for the 171 people made redundant, and this is a welcome step to help them get back into the labour market.
in writing. - if the european union is one of the main actors responsible for globalisation and its consequences, the people and economies of europe must be able to receive the funds needed for their recovery. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by rail, road and inland waterway.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr ivan stefanec, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for irish redundant workers. the purpose of the fund is to provide funds to employees who have been made redundant as a result of the economic crisis, to enable them to undergo training and reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the request by ireland for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of redundancies at the jeweller andersen ireland limited. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this financial aid amounting to over eur 1 500 000.
in writing. - as i had already done in the parliamentary committee on employment and social affairs, i renewed my vote in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help 171 redundant workers in the irish company andersen ireland. the fund will finance, at 60% (€1,501,200 contribution for a project with a total cost of €2,332,000), the measures taken to reorient, train and financially support the company's former employees, as well as to support those of them who wish to start their own business. once again, the globalisation adjustment fund is proving to be a useful and effective tool in dealing with the economic difficulties faced by our businesses and in the fight against mass unemployment.
in writing. - following a hundred redundancies in an irish company, the european union granted 'additional aid' to the redundant workers because they had undergone 'major changes in the structure of world trade'. i voted for this 'aid' so that the european union, the pyromaniac fireman, can give back what little it can to these workers, victims of its ultra-liberal ideology which destroys everything in its path.
in writing. - the globalisation fund is playing its destructive role. instead of helping the workers, it encourages the shareholders and the states to embrace the social irresponsibility of the liberal frenzied. the case of this irish jewellery retailer is exemplary. the sale of these european products was overtaken by third countries in record time. 'while parity existed in 2008, four years later the union's volume was exceeded by the four times higher import volume. " these are the effects of free trade, which has been transformed into religion, but the irish government is not even contemplating measures of solidarity protectionism, which is the only effective remedy. the irish government, like the eu, treats the symptoms without ever addressing the causes of the disease. i abstain in order not to deprive irish workers of this fund.
in writing. ireland is requesting the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to the amount of eur 1 501 200 for the conversion of 171 employees made redundant by ie/andersen ireland limited. the company, which operated in the economic sector classified in division 32 (manufacture of jewellery and similar articles), had for several years faced unfair competition from low-cost non-eu countries such as china, india, thailand, turkey, azerbaijan, vietnam, tunisia, mexico, ... china alone accounted for 83% of the production imported into the eu in 2007. the company's turnover fell from eur 18 million in 2008 to eur 8.9 million in 2012. in addition, there is the development of global, borderless internet sales. in this sector, thousands of sales representatives have been replaced by virtual online sales models. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to smbv was compatible with the internal market. in view of the dramatic economic and social situation in ireland, i voted in favour of this aid to these workers who are victims of the ultra-liberalism wanted by brussels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which will enable 138 former employees of andersen ireland limited in ireland to benefit from eur 1 501 200 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the funds will be used to finance personalised vocational training measures so that these employees can return to work as quickly as possible. the egf is a very important instrument for people who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation or the economic crisis to receive funds for their professional reintegration.
in writing. the proposal follows the dismissal of 171 employees from a company in a region of ireland where the unemployment rate is more than twice the national average. this european aid will support these employees in their search for a new job or for professional reorientation. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of this fund.
in writing. the absurd ultra-liberal economic policy that the european union imposes on its members continues to put workers at risk and companies in difficulty. what sense does it make to compensate in a partial and wrong way for the disastrous consequences it has caused? that's why i'm abstaining.
in writing. - andersen limited was one of the main economic drivers in the limerick region of ireland. its liquidation, due to severe strains on the structure of international trade, then aggravated the already very high unemployment in the region. i therefore vote in favour of this globalisation adjustment fund which helps displaced workers to reconvert or to set up businesses.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report for financial and professional assistance of €1.5 million to be provided to the 171 employees of andersen ireland limited who were made redundant between october 2013 and february 2014. this aid will also benefit 138 young people without jobs or training to help them get into the labour market. once again, the european globalisation adjustment fund has proved its worth, which is why i am supporting this report to reaffirm our desire for a fairer europe closer to the citizens.
in writing. opposed to this hypocritical system of globalisation adjustment funds , i nevertheless voted in favour of this report which proposes to release aid for the former greek employees of sprider stores: since this fund exists, it might as well be used to help european workers in distress. but again, instead of trying to mitigate the effects, it is the causes that should be tackled by protecting european workers from the ravages of globalisation.
in writing. greece lodged an application last june following the dismissal of 761 workers from sprider stores s.a, a company operating in the retail trade sector. the european globalisation adjustment fund is to grant a grant of eur 7 290 900 to a total of 1311 beneficiaries. in addition to the 761 workers made redundant, greece will provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 550 young people (neets). nevertheless, this fund exposes the hypocrisy of a system dictated by brussels which advocates austerity and the total liberalisation of borders and then comes to the rescue of the victims of its own failures. however, given that greece has been suffering from six consecutive years of recession with a 25.7% fall in gdp and a 20.6% rise in unemployment, i voted in favour of this report in order to support those workers who are victims of ultra-liberalism and the dictates of the european union.
in writing. - greece applied in june for a financial contribution from the globalisation adjustment fund of €7 290 900 to support the conversion of 761 people made redundant by sprider stores s.a. this situation shows the perversity of the system put in place by the european union. first, it is contributing to the contraction of the greek economy by imposing a ridiculous austerity package and maintaining a totally inadequate single currency. then, when greek firms closed and hundreds of employees were unemployed, it mobilised a european fund (homeopathic) to help them to return to work. however, given the very serious difficulties facing greece, which has been in economic recession for almost six consecutive years (2008/2013), i voted in favour of mobilising this €7 290 900 for the 761 workers made redundant.
in writing. - parliament approved the request for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund from greece to the retail company sprider stores. the company was forced to lay off a large number of its employees. these redundant employees will receive training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) will provide personalised services to help some 761 dismissed greek employees and up to 550 young people under 30 without education, employment or training to return to work. it is particularly interesting that services such as career guidance, career planning assistance, training and help in starting up a business can benefit young people in a country where more than half of them are unemployed.
in writing. - if the european union is one of the main actors responsible for globalisation and its consequences, people and economies must be able to receive the funds needed for their recovery. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by rail, road and inland waterway.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr victor negrescu, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for greek redundant workers. the purpose of the fund is to provide funds to employees who have been made redundant as a result of the economic crisis, to enable them to undergo training and reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the request by greece for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of redundancies in sprider stores. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this financial aid amounting to over eur 7 000 000.
in writing. - as i had already done in the parliamentary committee on employment and social affairs, i renewed my vote in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help 761 redundant workers in the greek company sprider stores. the fund will finance, at a rate of 60% (€7 290 900 contribution for a project with a total cost of €12 151 500), the measures taken to reorient, train and financially support the company's former employees, as well as to support those of them who wish to set up their own businesses. in the context of social europe, the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is essential. the implementation of the emi is in fact a concrete response by the european union to the mass unemployment.
in writing. - following hundreds of redundancies in greece, the european union has decided to mobilise funds to "help" the victims of the unbridled globalisation it is promoting. i therefore voted in favour of the allocation of these funds to people who have lost their jobs, which unfortunately is a mere caucus on a wooden leg.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) provides direct financial assistance to employees made redundant as a result of major structural changes in international trade. whether it is smes that are suffering the full effects of the european austerity policy that is killing consumption, or large companies that take advantage of the opportunity to relocate to countries with more attractive "wage costs". in the case of this greek clothing company, the report clearly observes the consequences of the neoliberal policy of a fall in wages and an increase in unemployment, with a sharp fall in purchasing power as a consequence. but without proposing other models based on economic recovery and protectionism. how can we think like the greek government that the sale of clothes can start again when since 2008, household consumption has fallen by 32.3% and unemployment has increased by 20.6%? i abstain because i do not wish to oppose the granting of direct aid to these 761 workers who have been made redundant.
in writing. greece requested in june a financial contribution from the globalisation adjustment fund of eur 7 290 900 to help the conversion of 761 redundant workers in sprider stores sa (retail sector). i note that the system put in place by the european union is particularly perverse and cynical. so, on the one hand, the eu is pursuing an ultra-liberal economic policy which is leading to deindustrialisation and the social damage we are seeing, and on the other hand, it is creating this gef to try to help people who are precisely the victims of its insane economic policy. lue is playing the part of a firefighter, trying to put out the fire she started herself with a water-sewing knife... when will a rational economic policy be established with the reestablishment of national borders ? given the very serious economic and social difficulties facing greece with six consecutive years of recession (2008/2013), a gdp that fell by 25.7%, a collapse in household consumption by 32.3%, a paralysed banking system and an unemployment rate that increased by 20.6%, i voted for the mobilisation of these eur 7 290 900 for these 761 dismissed workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which will enable 761 former employees of sprider stores s.a. in greece to benefit from eur 7 290 900 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). this funding will be used to finance personalised vocational training measures to enable these employees to return to work as quickly as possible. the egf is a very important instrument for people who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation or the economic crisis to receive funds for their professional reintegration.
in writing. the proposal follows the dismissal of 761 employees from a small greek company, many of whom are young people with no qualifications. in this context, these european grants will make it possible to guarantee the re-employment of these workers and to support them in their job search. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of this fund.
in writing. the absurd ultra-liberal economic policy that the european union imposes on its members continues to put workers at risk and companies in difficulty. what sense does it make to compensate in a partial and wrong way for the disastrous consequences it has caused? that's why i'm abstaining.
in writing. - the mass layoffs of employees at sprider stores, then the largest clothing retail chain in greece, have worsened a worrying economic situation. the economic recovery of this country must be supported and the european solidarity mechanisms must function. i therefore vote in favour of such a fund to help companies to convert or to set up new businesses.
in writing. - i supported this report in order to release €7.2 million in financial and professional aid for the 761 employees of sprider stores s.a. (a greek company) who were made redundant. this aid will facilitate their return to employment and will also benefit 505 young people without work or training. the european globalisation adjustment fund remains an important instrument for responding rapidly to the consequences of the economic crisis and major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation.
in writing. - i voted against because i consider that the european union's desire to get closer to moldova is not in our interests. this choice seems to be dictated more by geopolitical objectives: the rapporteur is known for his very hostile positions towards russia.
in writing. - this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union, the eca and their member states and moldova opens the way to future enlargement, as was the case with the association agreement with ukraine. we are asked to approve this agreement which should 'allow moldova to build a prosperous future in europe'. but what benefits does the eu again derive from this free trade agreement which provides for the complete elimination of all import duties and the prohibition of export duties on all goods by the union? the european union, and in particular its farmers, will once again be subject to unfair competition from this country with an average salary of €43 a month, even as the assembly of fruit, vegetable and horticultural regions denounces the increasing opening of european markets to imports from third countries under bilateral agreements, while exports still face non-tariff barriers from other countries. in order to preserve european markets, i voted against this agreement.
in writing. - with wealth production at the level of haiti, an underground economy that would account for 40% of gdp, i can only denounce the dangers to our economy of this agreement, especially for our farmers. the agreement is also worrying from a geopolitical point of view, with the delicate relations between the various moldovan minorities and above all the country's historical ties with russia. will the path to the european union guarantee more stability? the example of ukraine should be a warning to us. the reason is also that any new association or enlargement agreement must be rejected. i therefore voted against the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova.
in writing. the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova is an important step forward in strengthening our relations. i support in particular the desire to establish a deep and comprehensive free trade area. however, i would point out that this agreement is not the first step towards accession to the european union. moldova does not have any intention at this stage to join the eu. a lasting pause in the european union's enlargement policy must be respected, as we have promised.
in writing. - recognising the serious consequences of the intensification of free trade for european economies, mrs d'ornano voted against the motion for a resolution on the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. the substance and spirit of the text submitted to the european parliament for its vote are strongly linked to an ideology of globalisation through which the european supranational institutions seek political convergence and, eventually, new enlargements. mireille d'ornano does not wish to support such a policy.
in writing. - i voted to sign this agreement. the association agreement between the european union and moldova, negotiated between 2010 and 2013, is a very important step in the development of trade with eastern europe. the agreement contains a trade pillar which will lead to the creation of a comprehensive and deepened free trade area with the european union. the free trade area will create new opportunities for trade and economic growth for moldovan businesses and citizens, as well as for the european union, which will benefit from improved investment conditions in moldova. i therefore welcome this agreement, which will enable the country to modernise its economy, to ensure that our european companies are investing in moldova and to improve the political environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr petras austrevicius, on the association agreement with moldova, which allows for the establishment of a free trade area. the report also stresses that moldova has a european perspective, provided that it respects the reforms required by the association programme, in particular in the fight against corruption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the ratification of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. the agreement marks a decisive step in the process of political association and economic integration between the european union and moldova. the agreement also sends a clear message of support to the moldovan authorities, who are under significant pressure from the russian government, in particular by encouraging them to continue their reform efforts in favour of the rule of law. the resolution also calls for the european union to play a greater role in the settlement of the transnistrian issue. however, i do not think that this agreement is intended to confirm the prospect of moldova's accession to the european union.
in writing. - this agreement is presented as a prelude to moldova's accession to the european union. i am opposed to any further enlargement under the present conditions, as i do not want to subject other peoples to the austerity of the peoples of europe. it would also be a way of relieving moldova of russian pressure by strengthening its access to the european market. so this is clearly another act of preparing hostility with russia. the report nevertheless claims to assert that the eastern partnership does not constitute a threat to russia's political or economic interests . i'm sick of your hypocrisy. i vote against it.
in writing. with this association agreement, moldova has taken another step towards joining the european union. president juncker had announced at his inauguration that there would be no enlargement. the report is very clear. it shows all the risks faced by the other member states in the event of moldova's accession, the main one of which will obviously be social dumping. the european union (and therefore the member states) has already been very generous to moldova. between 2007 and 2014, €1 billion was distributed to this country, which is, let us recall, one of the poorest on the continent (30% of its population living below the poverty line). in addition, there is a common element: corruption and the underground economy that is ravaging moldova. i also do not forget the human rights that are openly violated in this country, including the proven facts of human trafficking. the peoples are sovereign and must be consulted by referendum on any new enlargement project.
in writing. this agreement follows the proposed partnership between ukraine and the european union, which has contributed to deepening divisions between pro-russian and pro-european parties. almost all of ukraine has now been plunged into violence and division. this new agreement with moldova raises a number of doubts as to its validity. it is up to the european union to take the measure of history and to find a consensus with russia that will allow the development and future of the border countries and of europe and russia to be consolidated, and not to establish agreements with these countries that compete with russia and that could lead to their internal destabilisation. i therefore abstained on these two texts.
in writing. the european ultra-liberal system is not working and ruining the peoples of europe, so its grip is being extended even further. the arrival of moldova in a bleak economic zone with no future is bad news for the moldovans, the french and the other peoples of europe. i therefore vote against this association agreement.
in writing. - the conclusion of an association agreement between ukraine and moldova is a key element in stabilising the area, where important political choices are being made for the future. i therefore vote in favour of better cooperation between the european union and moldova, because in the long term both will benefit from increased rule of law and trade cooperation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which supports the ratification of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, including a comprehensive and in-depth free trade agreement. this agreement was made possible by political and economic reforms in moldova, but it is not an end in itself. the eu and moldova have agreed to continue to work together in the field of economic and political reforms, and to maintain and deepen their relations.
in writing. - the association agreements with moldova (in preparation) and ukraine (already voted) have a significant geopolitical impact: they demonstrate the aggressiveness of european diplomacy towards russia. the white house's shadow is hanging over the file. i am also opposed and will be opposed with all my strength to the enlargement of the european union, which is already too large to be viable. the european union is destroying itself from within, not only by emptying the nation states of their sovereign marrow, but by giving itself body and soul to a declining us power with gigantic nuisance capabilities.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote on the eu-moldova association agreement. as always, this agreement contains first and foremost a free trade agreement between the two parties, which i am opposed to. these agreements are mainly beneficial to certain european economic interests by obliging the associated state to pursue policies of economic liberalization and structural adjustment. we know what this means in terms of social consequences! the moldovans will probably be killed, as will many others. however, this agreement is also expected by many of these moldovans who hope in particular for greater freedom of movement between their country and the member states of the union, thanks in particular to a minimum of visa liberalisation. i therefore wanted to give them a signal by abstaining, even though i know that the eu's association agreements with the various states in the region are hardly intended to bring democracy and development, and are instead full of ulterior motives, as we have seen with ukraine (to mention only the most caricatured of the most recently adopted agreements).
in writing. i voted against because the conditions for an association between the european union and the republic of moldova are far from being met: the underground economy accounts for more than 40% of the gdp of this country whose minimum wage is only 43 euros per month. at a time when the peoples of the member states of the european union are experiencing great economic difficulties, i refuse to see the eu embarking on new, costly and dangerous adventures.
in writing. - this report on an association agreement between the european union and moldova, which provides for a large free trade area and closer economic ties, is only a preliminary to a planned eu accession. the country received more than €1 billion from the eu between 2007 and 2014, yet 30% of its population still lives below the poverty line. the worrying level of its underground economy (40%) and the endemic corruption that prevails there will obviously not promote compliance with european rules on health, food security, respect for fundamental rights or the good management of the european public funds allocated to it. finally, the eu, so quick to condemn the measures taken by russia, forgets that moldova is the leading country for human trafficking with over 3000 cases recorded between 2000 and 2012 and that russia's sanctions measures are only the logical follow-up for any sovereign state of the retaliatory measures taken against it by the eu upstream. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part, is a strong sign of recognition of the reform efforts and ambitions of the moldovan authorities. i support this association agreement, but i stress that a continuation of constructive dialogue with russia remains necessary if moldova is to develop in a peaceful neighbourhood.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation of my colleague petras austrevicius on the association agreement with moldova, an important step in relations with that country which, as in the case of ukraine, has been under pressure from russia in the form of trade embargoes and increased russian support for the secessionist territory of transnistria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of ratifying the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, signed at the european union summit on 27 june 2014. i am pleased that this agreement has the support of 535 members.
in writing. - the justification for this agreement begins with the words the association agreement between the european union and moldova is modelled on the eu-ukraine association agreement . that would be enough to oppose this agreement, which, negotiated in the framework of the eastern partnership, is only aimed at weakening russia. it obviously contains a commercial pillar which will lead to the creation of a 'deep and comprehensive free trade area' with the european union, which should bring happiness to the peoples. when we see the results of the policies pursued in europe, we can wonder why the moldovan authorities are so eager to see the same suffering inflicted on their own people. i am voting against this motion because i sympathize with the people of moldova.
in writing. moldova is facing the russian embargo. it therefore wants to sell its fruit and vegetables in the european union without paying any customs duty. this is the principle of this eu-moldova free trade agreement. the european union will thus mobilise some €445 million to support moldovan agriculture, to the detriment of european farmers who are suffering the disastrous effects of the russian embargo and falling prices. encouraging imports from moldova without any customs duties is a heavy penalty for our farmers. moldova, which, it should be recalled, does not apply the same standards, particularly environmental standards. the european union is therefore openly mocking the suffering it inflicts on its farmers. bankruptcy and suicide is the future the eu is offering farmers, and all in the name of ultra-liberal dogma. i voted against it.
in writing. rejecting the economic agreement, it would be absurd for me to endorse this agreement in the specific field of atomic energy. i therefore vote against.
in writing. - i supported this recommendation of the european parliament which represents the ratification of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. following the signature of the association agreement between the european union and moldova on 27 june and the ratification of the agreement by the moldovan parliament on 2 july, the european parliament was required to approve the agreement. i welcome that approval. the association agreement will strengthen economic and political relations between the european union and moldova and also contains a trade component which will allow free access to the markets of both parties in the long term. it will be important to remain vigilant and to ensure that the agreement is fully implemented and respected.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution that "welcomes the appointment of senator gary hart by john kerry, president obama's secretary of state, as his personal envoy". the peoples of europe have already suffered too much from the interference of the united states of america.
in writing. 16 years ago, the british and irish parties and governments signed the belfast agreement (also known as the good friday agreement of 1998) which allowed for the establishment of decentralised institutions in northern and southern ireland. as such, the eu has already encouraged the process through the distribution of funds for regional development and funds under the peace programme. despite progress and economic progress, the current talks are at a standstill, especially on the issues of symbols (flags, parades, emblems, etc.) and violence persists. nevertheless, i can only deplore the american interference in the process with the appointment of senator gary hart even though former us envoy haas had not resolved the problem. this would be a matter for national or european decisionmaking and that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. - no one on the left or the right thought it worthwhile to talk about the case of northern ireland, which is strong evidence that extreme hostilities and tensions persist on european soil. the eu has a great deal of say in conflicts in the rest of the world, even though the problem of northern ireland is still unresolved in 2014! in fact, this crisis is reminiscent of others, such as the fratricidal war in the former yugoslavia in the 1990s, which saw serbs, croats and bosniaks torn apart. it is also competing with the civil war in ukraine, which the union is only making worse by supporting an association agreement which pro-russian minorities regard as a real provocation. the resolution before us will solve nothing and even welcomes the us interference in this peace process. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - the situation in northern ireland remains very worrying. the peace process negotiated in 1998 worked for a while, but now it is running out of steam. many criminal activities persist and many acts of violence are perpetrated. we cannot tolerate such behaviour in the european union. the parties to this conflict must give priority to dialogue. i voted in favour of this resolution, which recalls that there can be no violent conflict within the union. the european project is a pacifist project designed to prove to the rest of the world that there is an alternative to violence.
in writing. i supported this joint resolution on the northern ireland peace process. violence and unrest persist in this region, which is fragile because of a fragile economic and social situation. many questions remain to be resolved for lasting peace. this includes the use of flags and emblems, demonstrations and parades. the european union must encourage any initiative aimed at breaking the current impasse and relaunching the negotiations.
in writing. - in this period of profound geopolitical upheaval, this resolution is an opportunity to welcome the success of the reconciliation process which, with the signing of the good friday agreement in 1998, brought a remarkable end to an interfaith conflict that had lasted for almost a century. although tensions persist over the most thorny issues such as the use of flags and emblems, and despite the sporadic violent actions that continue to be perpetrated by marginal groups, i argue that this process is a success, and an example for all parties involved in political, geographical and religious conflicts around the world. europe has succeeded in establishing peace within itself. it is now his duty to bring this message of hope to communities affected by conflict.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the northern ireland peace process, which regards it as a positive example of conflict resolution, despite the persistence of some difficult issues such as the use of flags, demonstrations and parades. furthermore, the violent and criminal activities of certain groups remain a matter of concern. parliament called for constructive work to ensure full implementation of the peace agreements and for the process of reconciliation between the communities to be strengthened.
in writing. - i supported the resolution calling for the relaunch of the peace process in northern ireland following the failure of the 2013 peace talks, in order to guarantee the conditions for a stable and lasting peace. the resolution stresses the need to take action to improve wages and combat unemployment in order to combat criminal activities. it also calls for reconciliation and strengthening relations between communities and emphasises, in this respect, the european aid provided in particular through the peace programme.
in writing. - in 1998, the belfast agreement led to a peace agreement for northern ireland and ended 30 years of armed conflict. it provided for disarmament but also for the establishment of instruments of cooperation between ireland and northern ireland. at european level, the peace programme, with a contribution of eur 150 million from the erdf, is helping to strengthen crossborder cooperation between ireland and northern ireland. despite these advances, tensions remain. a new round of negotiations was therefore launched by the parties on 16 october 2014. the resolution aims to support this working party. i vote for it.
in writing. parliament commemorated the 25th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall at its session in brussels on 12 november. many members, from both the right and the left, expressed their 'emotion', their hands on their hearts and their voices trembling when the wall fell, others recalled more personal memories and of course all of them, in the well-known and agreed air of 'never again', welcomed the fact that the european union had become for many decades a zone of peace and calm and constructive dialogue between the different member states. of course, no one on the left or the right thought it worthwhile to talk about the case of northern ireland, which is a powerful proof that extreme hostility and tension are still going on in europe. the eu has a great deal of say in conflicts in the rest of the world, even though the problem of northern ireland is still unresolved in 2014! the resolution before us will solve nothing and even welcomes the us interference in this peace process. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this resolution is a step towards national reconciliation and an end to the troubles in northern ireland. it calls on all parties to come together to find a solution to the impasse and the tensions that persist in the region. it also mentions the role of economic and social conditions as well as financial crises in the increase in violence and criminal activity. it also stressed the importance of european aid in the peace process. i therefore voted in favour of this joint resolution.
in writing. the european union, unable to help its own members resolve any conflict (despite the lessons it has taught so many countries), instead of feeling humiliated, welcomes us interference in the northern ireland peace process. i therefore vote against this scandalous text.
in writing. - the resumption of peace negotiations in northern ireland, supported both financially and politically by the european union, cannot fail. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution because it calls on the parties to respect the fundamental values on which the european union is founded to achieve lasting peace.
in writing. - i supported this resolution to underline the importance of relaunching the peace process in northern ireland after the negotiations were suspended in december 2013 over issues relating to flags, emblems and social protection expenditure. it is necessary that a lasting solution be found by all the parties concerned and that the good friday agreement be fully implemented. thus, relations between communities need to be improved and economic and social development needs to be encouraged. finally, the european union must continue its action and continue to support this process of reconciliation through the financial support it provides through the peace programme.
in writing. - the resolution welcomes the american interference in this process. that is why i voted against it, together with the rest of the delegation of french patriotic members.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution, which the gue/ngl was a co-signer of and which our sinn fein members of parliament largely initiated. since 1998, and the belfast peace agreement which ended a 30-year conflict that left 3,500 dead, violence has continued more or less sporadically (100 deaths between 1999 and 2009). the peace process continues to be rejected by some groups and the economic crisis, exacerbated by austerity measures, is not helping, but is exacerbating tensions. the european parliament therefore supports the new round of negotiations launched by the parties on 16 october 2014 through this resolution, which mentions the importance of the economic and social context and the need to 'address current economic problems such as unemployment, low incomes and living standards'. i am convinced that the best solutions for peace can be found by changing economic policies, but i have also given my support to this resolution.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution, which is laudable in its declared intentions, is contrary to the principle of non-interference to which i am committed, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. turkey's economic and political threats to cyprus are simply intolerable, especially as turkey, which is in the process of joining the european union, still refuses to recognize the republic of cyprus as legitimate and to explore and exploit the resources of its exclusive maritime economic zone. the exclusive economic zone is, however, a matter of the complete sovereignty of a state and this is, of course, a case of violation of that sovereignty. cyprus is thus fully entitled to lodge formal complaints of violations of its sovereign territory or sovereign waters with the un and the international maritime organization. however, this joint motion for a resolution only proposes minimal actions and in no way does it call into question the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union, even though it refuses to recognise, in accordance with the ankara protocol, the existence of a fully-fledged eu state, namely cyprus. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. - turkey's political and economic attitude towards cyprus is unacceptable and has been for far too long. it also echoes the very ambiguous attitude of the ankara authorities towards the islamic state in the conflict between them and the kurds in kobane. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession negotiations are concluded. we need strong action from the member states of the union more than wishful thinking. that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution, which will have no impact on turkey's attitude towards its cypriot neighbour.
in writing. - when a country joins the european union, its borders cannot be called into question under any circumstances. turkey has been doing this for years, however, by not recognising the territorial integrity of cyprus. in october 2014, turkey illegally designated part of the exclusive economic zone of cyprus to conduct seismic studies. this situation is intolerable and cannot last. the european union must send a strong signal to turkey: when the territorial integrity of a member state is violated, the whole of the european union is threatened. this kind of behaviour proves that turkey has no place in the european union.
in writing. - in the light of the incidents in the conflict between cyprus and turkey over the extent of their exclusive economic zones (eezs), triggered by oil and gas exploration in the region, i am pleased that the european parliament has recalled the unconditionality of cyprus' international rights, which must continue to be supported by the european union.
in writing. - turkey's attempts to destabilise cyprus and the dispute between them over the extent of their respective exclusive economic zones lead me to conclude that turkey has no intention of joining the european union. as long as turkey does not recognise cyprus, as long as it refuses to become a signatory to the un convention on the law of the sea, as long as it pressures cyprus to stop drilling in its own waters and at the same time sends its own research vessels to explore the feasibility of exploring natural gas fields in the cypriot exclusive economic zone, as long as it is non-cooperative in the management of the eu's external borders and in the exchange of information on irregular migration flows, then the eu accession negotiations will not take place. i note that despite these perpetual violations and the thumbs-up to the territorial integrity of cyprus, the eu, supported by the french government, continues to open negotiating chapters in defiance of the feeling expressed by the peoples of europe to stop the enlargements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the tensions in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus following measures taken by turkey, which recalls cyprus' right to explore the natural resources in its eez and condemns the violation of sovereignty by turkey's threats and provocations against cyprus. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this resolution in response to the turkish intimidation, which is contrary to international law, and in particular to the united nations convention on the law of the sea. it is important to affirm the right of cyprus to exploit its natural resources in its exclusive economic zone. the aim is to achieve a fair distribution of this exploitation and to ensure that the development of a mediterranean gas hub benefits the whole euro-mediterranean area and is in line with the eu's energy security strategy. following the appointment of the new special adviser to the un secretary-general for cyprus, negotiations to find a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem must now resume in a calm atmosphere and it is up to turkey to re-establish a climate of confidence. the peace talks must ultimately lead to the creation of a united cyprus, based on a bicommunal and bi-zonal federation with equal rights for the populations of the two island entities.
in writing. - in 2009 large gas reserves were discovered off cyprus, lebanon, egypt and israel. the exploration of resources in its exclusive economic zone has been awarded by the government of the republic of cyprus to the italian company eni and the korean company kogas. on 3 october 2014, turkey issued a directive on the navtex (maritime information system) system, designating a large area belonging to the southern part of the eez of cyprus as reserved for the alleged seismic studies it intends to conduct. the resolution recalls the legality of the cypriot eez and calls on turkey to comply with international law by revoking its navtex directive without delay and by refraining from any violation of the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus. i vote for it.
in writing. turkey's political and economic attitude towards cyprus is unacceptable and has been for far too long. even as turkey's eu accession negotiations are proceeding with the benevolence of the right and the left, from mr schulz to mr juncker, we are being asked to tap the fingers of the turkish authorities. in short, the eu is telling turkey that what you are doing in cyprus is not right! at no time is turkey's membership in question! the turkish government will no doubt be highly impressed by the gestures of brussels... i voted against this motion for a resolution which is really nothing but a list of wishes!
in writing. the resolution condemns the unilateral actions of the turkish authorities in the territorial waters of cyprus and calls for the resumption of dialogue between the two communities on the island. it also called for peace and continued negotiations between the actors in the region. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i signed and voted for this resolution which strongly condemns turkey's actions in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of cyprus. we must show our full solidarity with cyprus, a member state of the european union. i would like to stress, however, the need to maintain a sincere and constructive dialogue with turkey. because turkey is a candidate country and because it is a major player in the region. i note that parliament is asking turkey not only to respect international law but also to demonstrate its willingness to appease by withdrawing vessels that are in the vicinity of the eez of cyprus.
in writing. the european union's responses to the situation on the island of cyprus are completely inadequate, as evidenced by the fact that this situation persists and does not change. i refuse to support this unnecessary decision and i will abstain.
in writing. - in 2009, gas resources were discovered off the coasts of cyprus, lebanon, egypt and israel. part of these resources are located in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of the republic of cyprus. turkey, through the 'turkish republic of northern cyprus', a puppet state recognized only by turkey, is trying to gain access to these resources. in october it decided that an area in the southern part of the eez of cyprus was reserved for seismic studies and sent a vessel to conduct a so-called 'maritime study' there, in total violation of the eez of cyprus and its right to explore its natural resources. the resolution calls on turkey to cease its 'provocative actions' and 'threats' against cyprus and calls for the continuation of talks for peace and a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus question. i voted for this resolution, as did our cypriot friends in akel, because it is a means of putting pressure on turkey and the other european institutions to ensure that the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus are finally respected in accordance with the promises made to it when it joined the eu.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution, which is laudable in its declared intentions, is contrary to the principle of non-interference to which i am committed, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. - last 9 july marked the third anniversary of south sudan's independence, a country that is still experiencing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. the violence has killed thousands of people since december and displaced more than 1.2 million south sudanese from their homes. the political rivalry between president kiir and his former vice-president machar is being grafted onto old grudges between the dinka and nuer peoples from which they respectively originate, and the fighting is accompanied by ethnic massacres and atrocities against civilians. worse, the displacement of people fleeing the fighting has led to the spread of epidemics. however, beyond the humanitarian situation alone, we must not be blind to the principle of interference it implies and the real objectives of a new partition of sudan, to the benefit of the united states. indeed, it is the focus of all the cynicism of us geopolitical strategies and the wider international community. these strategies are wrapped in beautiful concepts of self-determination, the right of peoples to self-determination and beautiful humanitarian discourses. that is why i would abstain on this proposal.
in writing. - the humanitarian situation in south sudan is a matter of concern. while the humanitarian concerns of the resolution are legitimate, i am sceptical about this new external interference whose hidden objective is a new partition of sudan. independence, after a bloody conflict, and fragile relations with ethiopia, egypt and kenya, can only incite us to a certain caution. i therefore abstained on the motion for a resolution on humanitarian aid to south sudan.
in writing. - the civil war in south sudan, which has been raging for nearly a year, has created a major humanitarian crisis. 1.9 million people have been forced to flee their homes, many of them refugees in neighbouring countries. the humanitarian situation is very worrying: there is not enough water and food, the sanitation is deplorable and the health care is sorely lacking. i voted in favour of this resolution which reminds the member states of the european union of the imperative need to continue to help restore good humanitarian conditions in south sudan.
in writing. with more than 10 000 dead and 3 800 000 people in need of humanitarian aid, south sudan is in a dire situation. in the face of horror and urgency, the european union is shouldering its responsibilities, providing more than a third of all international contributions to respond to the humanitarian crisis. i welcome the fact that the european parliament is playing its role in mobilizing the international community to honour its commitments and to help establish institutions and a legal system that will lay the foundations for the peaceful development of the country.
in writing. - in view of the persistence of a major crisis in south sudan, i support the european parliament's resolution on the humanitarian situation in the country. the situation is deteriorating considerably. this is a real tragedy unfolding before our eyes. seven million people are now affected by famine, and 50,000 of them are at risk of dying if emergency aid does not reach them now! the european commission has already increased its survival aid by €20 million to help them. we must therefore continue in this direction and respond to the humanitarian needs of the most vulnerable people by focusing first and foremost on the distribution of food and raw materials.
in writing. - since its creation in 2011 with the aim of pacifying the area, south sudan has been facing a situation of severe instability. the situation has continued to deteriorate in all areas: political, humanitarian, security and development. i note the inability of the parties to find a lasting solution and to put an end to the perpetual violations of the january 2014 ceasefire and the inter-ethnic atrocities committed on the territory of south sudan. extreme poverty and displacement are fuelling a humanitarian crisis that is spreading throughout the region and raising serious concerns. what is happening in south sudan concerns us all. because beyond the humanitarian crisis, which cannot leave us indifferent, there is a fertile ground for violence and radicalization. i am also wondering about europe's actions in the region. what is the state of play in the operational implementation of the sahel strategy? how do we expect, with the support of the authorities and african organisations, to put a stop to the phenomena of extreme violence and terrorism which are destabilising the whole region and also threatening europe?
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the humanitarian situation in south sudan following the civil war that started in december 2013. the text condemns the violence and the repeated violations of the ceasefire agreement and calls for the proper administration of humanitarian aid, which must be accompanied by a political process of peace and reconciliation of communities.
in writing. - i wished to be a co-signer of this resolution on the humanitarian situation in south sudan in the context of the ethnic-based civil war that is bleeding the country, with more than 10 000 deaths since december 2013. in early july 2014, i alerted the high representative to the worsening crisis and the particularly dire situation of children, who are displaced, threatened with death, hunger or disease, recruited and used as child soldiers. the eu must continue to support the mediators of the intergovernmental authority on development in order to find a political solution to this conflict. i welcome the fact that the eu has already contributed €1 million to the mediation process and adopted a €10 million package of exceptional aid measures to promote stabilisation and confidence-building in the regions directly affected, while encouraging conflict prevention in those at high risk of contagion. this support and encouragement must, however, be accompanied by the utmost severity in the face of unfulfilled commitments. that is why international sanctions must be applied ruthlessly against those who violate the peace agreement.
in writing. - following the independence of south sudan (2011) many problems persist. a civil war broke out in 2013 that left 10,000 people dead and hundreds of thousands displaced. the ceasefire signed in january 2014 is currently not being respected. the igad (intergovernmental authority on development), a regional grouping of 8 african countries, signed an agreement on 7 november last year providing for sanctions (asset freezes, travel bans to the region, arms and ammunition embargoes) and the possibility of military intervention. the resolution condemns the violence, calls for increased international and european aid and calls for a real sharing of oil revenues. but it "encourages south sudan to ratify the cotonou agreement" and thus the signing of economic partnership agreements (epas) whose adverse effects are well known. under the circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. it has been 3 years since south sudan gained its independence. but unfortunately, nothing has been done and the country is still experiencing an unprecedented humanitarian and health crisis. the grave violence has already claimed thousands of lives and driven 1.2 million south sudanese into exile. political rivalries and power struggles have been joined by ancestral ethnic rancor and hatred (dinka people against nuer) resulting in massacres and atrocities of all kinds. in addition, the displacement of these populations has led to a very worrying development of epidemics and health risks that should not be overlooked. finally, another fundamental problem is the us geostrategic motives which are again blurring the map in this already highly stressed and therefore fragile part of the world. behind the speeches about the need for humanitarian aid, the great theoretical leaps and bounds about the right of peoples to self-determination, there are also much less praiseworthy principles of interference. i therefore abstained on that resolution.
in writing. as always when a country experiences high internal tensions, the european union intervenes in a timely fashion, with permanent interference, wrongly and inaccurately lectures, aggravates the situation and ends up providing humanitarian aid that becomes necessary partly through its own fault. i don't want to condone these practices or refuse help to those who need it. that's why i'm abstaining.
in writing. - the inextricable situation in south sudan deserves much more attention from the west. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution, which points to an already too long list of scourges inflicted on the local population. the number and variety of such cases, particularly the situation of women, epidemics and civil war, call for urgent action by the international community to ensure that humanitarian aid is effective.
in writing. - since the beginning of the crisis in south sudan and the resumption of violence, un estimates indicate that more than 10,000 people have lost their lives, 3.8 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance and 1.4 million people have been internally displaced. it is urgent that a ceasefire be declared and that international sanctions be taken against those responsible for the violations of the ceasefire of 23 january 2014. it is also necessary that investigations be carried out in accordance with international standards to punish those responsible for serious crimes. i voted in favour of this resolution so that the european union, which has already provided more than a third of international humanitarian aid, can reprogram its development aid to meet the most urgent needs of the people and help to resolve this tragic conflict.
mr president, mr pittella, you are beyond reproach. you have forgotten, however, in your apocalyptic vision of possible censorship by the commission, the invasion of locusts and the rain of frogs. as for you, mr verhofstadt, you have not forgotten all the insults and slanders that have been smeared on your face, for i cannot find another word in the rich french vocabulary - it must be said - to describe your speech. the reality is that, thanks to the leaked documents, we have further evidence that luxembourg is organising tax evasion on a very large scale in the european union. more than three hundred multinational companies have signed agreements with the government of this country to obtain large tax reductions. once the rebate was obtained, the profits were repatriated to luxembourg through various financial devices. this little game has siphoned off the tax revenues of the countries of the european union and, of course, those of france. the french citizens will be pleased to learn that, thanks to mr juncker, they have to pay more taxes to compensate for the tax leakages organised by luxembourg, which is not the only country concerned but plays a central role in the tax optimisation schemes of multinationals. techniques based on artificial location of patents, distorted transfer prices between subsidiaries, combinations of subsidiaries between tax havens allow very rich multinationals to pay almost no taxes in the countries that produce the wealth. merchant websites such as amazon and itunes were able to artificially locate activities in luxembourg and benefit from reduced vat rates to sell their products in france. worse still, this vat is collected in luxembourg when it should be returned to the consumer's country. luxembourg offers a real tax toolbox to multinationals, based - it is true - on the rules put in place by the european union. this has enabled luxembourg to offer a very high standard of living to its inhabitants with highly paid jobs in finance and law. this has, however, considerably impoverished other countries of the european union. mr juncker, speaking about you before the french senate, the former finance minister, jean arthuis - who is not exactly from my parish - said: 'in the morning he reminds us of our obligations to balance public finances and in the afternoon he makes us rich thanks to the luxembourg taxation and banking secrecy regime'. mr juncker, you were prime minister of luxembourg from 1995 to 2013. you are fully responsible for allowing these tax evasion techniques to be implemented on a large scale. no one can believe that you can fight sincerely and firmly to undo what you have done tomorrow. it would be as credible as appointing al capone chairman of the safety and ethics committee. that is why we are voting in favour of this motion of censure and calling on all politicians who want to fight this scandalous evasion to overthrow the juncker commission. it should be noted that you are not the only one responsible, you are just the best example of the monster that the european union has become, but we do not forget who made you king, mr juncker: the epp, the pse and the liberals, as well as, in france, the ump and the ps, carry with you the reproach of the symbol that you have become, that of a europe of trickery, greed, injustice and cynicism that abandons the small in favour of the big.
in writing. the europe-phobic have once again tried to put a stake in our wheels. we have placed our trust in the new european commission under president-elect jean-claude juncker a month ago. this commission proposes a new political and economic impetus for the european union. we must give him a chance to implement his plans. europeans wanted to undermine this commission, which had just been approved by the european parliament. they've lost their way again. this improper approach has proved counterproductive. the commission of jean-claude juncker has more support from meps than when it was inaugurated.
mr president, the framework set up is important, necessary and useful, but it is also costly and does not provide any answers to very serious questions. we cannot separate several issues that are at the root of poverty and all human disorder from the causes of the present. firstly, the foreign policy of our states, too often under the influence of the united states of america, is provoking or sustaining conflicts which contribute to the development of poverty with serious consequences, as we know in iraq, syria, libya, the central african republic and mali. today's radical islamists are often the playthings of our democracies of yesterday that were used for political purposes and turned against us. the corruption? not a word about corruption in this report! corruption is a major factor in the maintenance of conflicts and the plundering of the resources of some countries through multinational corporations and transnational mafia networks. what are the means of controlling and spending money? who is this money distributed to? finally, no paragraph deals with the management of immigration, whereas the issue of migration is linked to our development effort, and this is in order to loosen the grip on europe. we therefore commend the good intentions of this report but deplore the significant omissions, which will cause us to continue to deal with the consequences without going into the real causes.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner creţu, i share your desire not to sacrifice quality for speed. but we still have an urgent problem: to get cohesion policy on track to make the 2014-2020 programming as successful as possible. first, we must now find a real solution to the problem of the €23 billion or €28 billion of cash shortages which, if not resolved immediately, will lead to a situation that cannot be managed tomorrow. in milan, at the informal council of ministers, my colleague and i expressed our dissatisfaction with the irresponsibility of the european council and we are counting on the european commission to make very rapid progress on this issue. it is urgent to find all the flexibilities within the commission so that the operational programmes can be validated before 31 december 2014. otherwise we risk creating new deadlocks in the european council for their reallocation in 2015. i just want to emphasize one point: there is nothing to say that the technical adjustments that will be needed will be easily obtained from the european council when we see the little progress that the european council is making in finding solutions to this problem of 23 billion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the launch of cohesion policy for 2014-2020 has already failed. while many operational programmes will not be adopted before the beginning of 2015, the european union is facing very serious payment delays for projects undertaken during the previous mandate from 2007 to 2013. these delays in payment are obviously causing great difficulties for some of our local and regional authorities and our businesses. even with cohesion policy, which is supposed to translate into action the principle of solidarity that drives you, the european dream is turning into a financial nightmare. the delay in adopting operational programmes is due, on the one hand, to the very low absorption capacity of some member states, which are unable to spend efficiently the financial resources promised to them. the scandalous transfer of the management of european funds from the state to the regions also has the effect of postponing the launch of cohesion policy. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary of the measure is limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the project. the sivens dam case thus gives us a bitter foretaste of the disastrous cooperation between the european union and local authorities in the future. this project has been so utterly neglected and illegitimate that the european commission is now threatening to withdraw european funds. the european union's action in this case is a flagrant failure.
mr president, commissioner, it is a pleasure to see you on this side of the house. however, the delay in the validation of operational programmes is a serious anomaly which disrupts the start of programming of the multiannual financial framework. as legislators, we have our share of responsibility and will contribute effectively to finding solutions. that said, i would like to stress to you the concomitance of two elements. firstly, we attach such importance to this delay in the programming of the implementation of cohesion policies because it weakens projects throughout europe seeking public funding, all those investments that europe so badly needs in the face of the crisis. if some member states are more concerned than others, then let us say so, not to denigrate but to help. if the commission's technical assistance is not sufficient, then let us strengthen it to meet the quality requirements you have raised. this is the union's priority: to implement projects and investments as quickly as possible in our europe in crisis. secondly, this difficulty of regional policy is echoed by the crisis of budget payments. on 17 november the european parliament had to abandon the budgetary conciliation procedure because the member states were unable to come up with a viable response. the regions are the ones paying the heaviest price for this budgetary cavalry. the european commission must propose an emergency mechanism on cohesion policies. what are the regions most affected, what is the amount of unpaid bills in each region, what are the needs? these two crises have had a strong impact on the economic activity of our european territories. we know, commissioner, that you are firmly committed to cohesion policy, so please tell mr juncker - before he comes to announce his long-awaited recovery plan on wednesday - that our europe needs public investment more than ever, that regional policy is one of them, and that if we do not address this, it will be useless to consider other mechanisms, which will be mired in the quicksand of the atony of public investment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's work and precautions before any legislative proposal can only be applauded. it would appear that the pros and cons of the policy options are carefully weighed against a rigorous examination of their potential impact. i have no doubt about the seriousness and probity of these many analyses despite the large and effective presence of lobbyists in this house. i wonder, however, about the long-term effectiveness of the method and its financial cost. is not the mason known by the foot of the wall? what has been the result of all this hard work? zero growth, deindustrialisation, the planned death of our agriculture and fisheries, rampant unemployment, loss of purchasing power, failure of the school system and of initial and vocational training, uncontrolled immigration, corruption at all levels and growing insecurity, bottom-up levelling, loss of values, and worse. however, it is true, and it is clearly stated, that each impact assessment contributes to the decision but does not replace it. the adoption of a proposal is always a political decision prepared by the college of commissioners, presented by the council and the commission and voted on by parliament. so, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, look for the mistake.
madam president, commissioner, three quarters of europeans think that europe generates too much bureaucracy. this glut of standards is a serious threat to the credibility of europe and its institutions. small and mediumsized enterprises, which account for 99% of european enterprises, are the first victims, and studies show that the administrative cost of new legislation is ten times higher for smes than for large groups. the european commission has put in place extremely detailed procedures to ensure that european legislation is better adapted, including an sme test. unfortunately, this sme test is not compulsory and is applied to only half of the proposed new texts. the commission's draft new guidelines on impact assessments do not even mention this. the commission's proposals are not to be dismissed, given that a consultation on the reform of the small business act is under way and that business associations and consular offices in all countries are mobilizing to respond and make their voices heard. the principle of thinking about the small first must be the rule, not the exception, if europe is to be useful and help smes.
mr bogovic was making more of a comment. so if you want 30 seconds of commentary...
i thank you for respecting your speaking time. there's a blue card from mrs. grapini. do you accept it?
madam president, i will also try to respect my speaking time by saying that, after listening to the information which the european commission has just given us on the impact assessment, it seems important to me to recall the initial interest of this exercise. impact analysis must remain a tool in the service of european legislative and regulatory work. it is indispensable to provide objective and precise information on the decisions taken by our institutions. their decisions are never without constraints for all the member states and, therefore, without consequences for the daily lives of european citizens. however, we must remain very vigilant. these studies must not be a source of even more excessive regulation and administration, the weight of which would undermine the freedom to undertake and act. i would therefore like to draw the attention of the european commission to the lack of flexibility, if not the blind rigidity, of certain analyses. let me end with a bit of advice in the form of a joke: let's avoid ever having to do impact studies on the impact of impact studies.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 27 november 2014.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in these difficult times, when communal and religious tensions are on the rise, we need secularism more than ever. in this context, the intervention of pope francis in plenary is regrettable. the european parliament is not the place for religious discourse. how can we fight for freedom and fundamental rights, how can we fight discrimination if trade unions can interfere with democratic choices? the european union protects freedom of opinion and belief. why is it not protected from the influence of religion? finally, let us adopt a european definition of secularism, which is just and necessary, and which enables us to live together despite our differences. and i'll end with gambetta's words: "we are not the enemies of religion. we are, on the contrary, the servants of freedom of conscience, respectful of all religious and philosophical opinions".
that item is closed.
president of the committee on budgets. - madam president, this request for urgent procedure gives rise to three points of misunderstanding. first, during the three weeks of conciliation on the draft 2015 budget and the 2014 amending budgets, the council was fully engaged on this issue. he was so mobilized that he could not take a position on the conciliation until a few hours before its closure, and it was in these conditions that the conciliation failed. in a way, this issue has cannibalized the council's energy and intelligence. second ground of incomprehension: in connection with this operation, the commission proposed to allocate 420 million additional resources linked to customs duties and certain other taxes, not to help settle outstanding invoices but to reimburse this sum to the member states of the european union. finally, i would like to say that in this matter, between retroactivity and urgency, we must choose. since we chose retroactivity, there is no urgency. these are the three reasons for the misunderstanding which i wanted to share with parliament.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, madam commissioner, mr council representative, it is useless here to multiply the speeches of lament which in fact reveal the failure of european policies: they must be changed. social objectives must cease to be wishful thinking and the relic of economic policies; instead, economic efficiency results from choices of social and ecological efficiency of human well-being. we cannot hope to move towards more jobs without a development plan, without ending austerity, without a credit policy of the european central bank which must first serve the real economy and labour. experience shows that flexibility of work does not create jobs, it increases social insecurity and creates poor workers. the future of a new human european project is being debated and decided here, in order to devise a system of job security and lifelong learning, with the young people as the top priority. similarly, we will not reduce poverty without defending public services, without improving social protection rather than destroying it, without a minimum income within the european union and without the incentive to create a guaranteed minimum wage in each country. the reorientation of the 2020 strategy must be clear in order to consider education, social protection, public employment services as priority investments, climate protection and the ecological transition of productive systems as priority directions, which should no longer be taken into account in budgetary deficit calculations. more fundamentally, we propose to include in the work programme of parliament, the commission and the council the draft of a new initiative which would be a european pact for human development, social and ecological progress by otherwise mobilising the european investment bank and the european central bank.
madam president, employment is an absolute right for everyone, regardless of age, education, qualifications or education. it is work that gives a place in society and, therefore, a dignity for oneself and in the eyes of others. one of the foundations of the union should have been jobs for all, not a currency for all. of the three scenarios developed in 2010, we are in the lost decade. forget about recovery and slow growth, you're just admitting it yourself. the employment rate in europe has not increased in ten years, growth is zero, all because the jobs that allow everyone to exist and consume have been systematically ignored. it was designed as a tool, a variable for adjusting profits. the human dimension has been completely erased, and the crisis of 2008 was only a demonstration of the structural failure of the european construction. the ever-increasing number of regulations and the increasingly stringent regulations have ended up suffocating both smes and large companies, and president juncker's 300 billion is in danger of being stuck in santa's hood. the right to work and not the right to work is the only key to growth.
madam president, i have heard the council's voluntarist speech this morning, but i have not forgotten the battles we have had to fight to preserve the european social fund as the main instrument for entering working life. i have not forgotten that we also had to fight against the heads of state or government to preserve 20% of the european social fund to fight poverty. i can see that progress has been made, but i think that the ball is really in your court today because i have heard the mobilisation of mrs thyssen - our commissioner - on this subject. i think what we need today is for you to mobilise the member states on operational programmes and action on the ground. yes, the programmes are there, we have to act, we have to judge your commitment by future results, and we will be very careful.
madam president, poverty is increasing all over europe. this is true even in countries that seem to be doing well. for example, in germany poverty has never increased so much as in the last ten years compared with the period before world war ii. so it is clear that this is a global phenomenon. i would like to ask you to reflect on the notion of structural reform which is constantly in focus, because the flexibilization and precariousness of labour markets and social systems leads to - although from a statistical point of view, i was going to say statistical, unemployment can fall - the increase in the working poor and therefore in real poverty. i believe that the report before us is an act of lucidity which advocates a new model of development based on the real well-being of citizens, and not just on flattering statistics which, in fact, do not reflect reality. i would like to conclude with what our colleague from the epp group said. on the contrary, a european unemployment insurance system which would not be, as i was about to say, an everyday one, but would simply be there in exceptional moments, would make it possible to reduce poverty rather than fight it in a lasting way for a decade.
madam president, from the liberalization of regulated professions to the directive on posted workers, where is the social europe that has been promised for so many years? in its communication of 5 march on the europe 2020 strategy, the commission is obliged to acknowledge that progress has been mixed so far. but then, instead of continuing to blame the 2008 crisis, what are our great strategists waiting for to finally question themselves? while the european union's arrears are piling up, you continue to announce huge budgets of 960 billion for the second tranche of this europe 2020 strategy, which is not working. you can't solve problems with billions you don't have. it is high time to break with the dogma of the free movement of capital, goods and people. how can we protect european workers if we refuse to protect european companies? instead of creating a hypocritical globalisation adjustment fund to compensate victims of unfair competition, let us finally take the necessary protectionist measures! let's not be the turkeys in the game! let us be one step ahead rather than one step behind and deal with the causes rather than the consequences!
before i give the floor to the next speaker, i just want to point out that we still have 12 registered speakers, that we absolutely must have this floor cleared by 11 o'clock and that therefore, unfortunately, we will not be able to hold the speeches on request. i would like to point out to the members who were registered for these requested speeches that they will have the opportunity to submit a statement of about 200 words which will be annexed to the minutes. we won't be able to spend on on-demand interventions.
madam president, more jobs and a better quality of life are the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. europe has many assets to achieve this and finally emerge from the economic crisis: a skilled workforce, a strong technological and industrial base, an internal market, a single currency but, above all, a young, dynamic and willing generation. i think we need to invest in our young people to re-launch growth in a sustainable and inclusive way. to do this, we must encourage them to take the initiative. i believe in the importance of instilling the entrepreneurial spirit in them. it is a rare commodity that must be promoted because it is the lifeblood of europe's future. in this context, i would like to stress today the importance of creating an environment favourable to the creation and development of enterprises in europe. i would like to encourage the development of the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs. it must be given more resources and more local relays because it is a promising programme. it is by these measures that we can make the strategy a reality.
thank you, colleagues, for your cooperation in catching up so that we can meet the deadline.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (1) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11 a.m. pending the formal sitting.) the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. this convention on international guarantees for mobile equipment is part of the drive to liberalize the railway sector completely, which i strongly oppose. the ratification of the protocol by the european union, on behalf of the european union, is also contrary to the idea i advocate of cooperation between sovereign states. these are two good reasons why i could only vote against the adoption of this convention.
in writing. this convention on international guarantees for mobile equipment is closely linked to the fourth railway package, the ultimate aim of which is the total liberalisation of the railway sector, with the social and spatial consequences that we know (see the united kingdom). but here the united kingdom will not be part of the protocol, nor will denmark. the situation is quite different for the other countries, since a regional economic integration organization will have the same rights to approve the protocol. the european union is therefore entitled to ratify this protocol in place of the member states, which are still renouncing their sovereignty, and for these reasons i voted against this convention.
in writing. - the protocol on international guarantees relating to mobile equipment, article 22 provides: 'a regional economic integration organization constituted by sovereign states and having competence over certain matters governed by this protocol may also sign, accept and approve this protocol or accede to it. in such a case, the regional economic integration organisation shall have the same rights and obligations as a contracting state.' without prejudice to the technical provisions of this protocol, the problem is the extension of the scope of ratification. it is not acceptable that the european union can ratify such a convention binding on sovereign states without their respective agreement, instead of the sovereign states. it should also be recalled that those powers conferred on the european union are based on its exclusive competence in certain matters relating to the railway sector and on article 3 of the feu treaty, which provides that 'the union shall have exclusive competence to conclude an international agreement where such conclusion is necessary to enable it to exercise its internal competence'. as a fierce opponent of this article of the lisbon treaty, i naturally voted against the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the new protocol.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of the council decision approving the agreement on the protocol on railway rolling stock-specific matters to the convention on international guarantees of mobile equipment. the protocol encourages capital investment in the railway sector. this is in line with the objectives of the fourth railway package to encourage innovation and increase investment in the union rail system. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european parliament approved the protocol on specific questions relating to railway rolling stock to the convention on international guarantees of equipment for mobile equipment. i have given my approval to a text which will encourage the offer of funding for railway rolling stock. the protocol will create an international guarantee for creditors, which will in particular encourage capital investment in the railway sector.
in writing. the report proposes to strengthen legal homogeneity in the european union, despite national differences. the mutual recognition of legal decisions is the sticking point in this political logic. i am firmly opposed to european and institutional integration as currently understood by the european commission and i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague heidi hautala on the protocol on specific questions relating to railway rolling stock to the convention on international guarantees of equipment for mobile equipment. the text supports the council conclusions on the ratification by the european union of the luxembourg protocol signed in 2007, which sets international standards for the railway sector. the recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i supported the report on the approval of the luxembourg protocol on railway rolling stock-specific matters to the convention on international guarantees of equipment for mobile equipment. the purpose of this protocol is to facilitate the offer of financing for high value railway rolling stock by creating a strong international guarantee in favour of creditors. it also establishes a single international registration system for international guarantees and thus contributes to the establishment of a common judicial area based on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions, which will encourage capital investment in the railway sector.
in writing. - the aim is to approve the council's proposal for the establishment of a railway protocol in connection with the fourth railway package, which i had opposed. the purpose of this protocol is to facilitate the offer of financing for high value railway rolling stock by creating a strong international guarantee in favour of creditors. the commission stresses that this protocol should encourage capital investment in the railway sector and contribute to the creation of a private market for the rental of mobile equipment in europe. this is to intensify competition at the expense of the public service. all of which i condemn. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this convention, which transfers our national sovereignty even more into the hands of the european union. article 22 of the protocol on international guarantees for mobile equipment states that 'a regional economic integration organisation consisting of sovereign states and having competence over certain matters governed by this protocol may also sign, accept and approve this protocol or accede to it. in such a case, the regional economic integration organisation shall have the same rights and obligations as a contracting state.' the extension of the scope of ratification poses a problem here, since it allows the european union to ratify, in place of the sovereign states, the convention which will bind them, obviously without a respective agreement. it should also be noted that article 3 tfeu (treaty of lisbon), which provides that 'the european union shall have exclusive competence to conclude an international agreement where such conclusion ... is necessary to enable it to exercise its internal competence', has given the european union exclusive competence in railway matters.
in writing. i supported this report which provides for the ratification by the european union of the convention on international guarantees for mobile equipment. the convention applies when the debtor is located in a contracting state and strengthens the rights of creditors if the debtor fails to perform his obligations. the application of this convention is likely to strengthen investor confidence in the field of mobile equipment.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this report because, although it concerns a protocol to the convention on international interests in mobile railway equipment providing better guarantees and facilities for the purchase of such equipment, which could develop a key sector of european transport, this protocol nevertheless goes in the direction of liberalization and deregulation of the european railway sector, which will lead to more inconvenience for companies in the sector and for passengers, as previous railway packages have only led to the gradual increase of train costs for passengers and the disengagement of train companies on certain routes.
in writing. the convention favours supranational and regional levels to the detriment of the states and was designed in the context of privatisation and opening up of rail transport to competition. i am against this convention because i believe that the establishment of a common judicial area is detrimental to the sovereignty of the peoples.
in writing. through this recommendation, a favourable vote by the european parliament will help to promote trade in mobile equipment. in other words, the aim of this protocol is to increase investment and trade guarantees in the rail and motor vehicle sectors. i therefore share the view of the european parliament in supporting this protocol, which will put in place effective measures to monitor mobile devices and provide better security for such goods between the states party to this protocol.
in writing. i voted against the adoption of this convention which, under the pretext of resolving international commercial disputes, contributes to the dispossession of states of their judicial sovereignty in favour of a so-called 'international justice' of dubious legitimacy.
in writing. this 2005 convention on choice of court agreements, which the eu already signed in 2009, is here to be adopted by the european union. it is a private international law convention (the only country to have signed it so far is mexico) that clearly erodes the sovereignty of states. an exclusive choice of court agreement may be concluded by two or more parties to designate courts (or one or more specific courts) of a contracting state with jurisdiction to hear disputes arising from a particular relationship of law. the convention aims to ensure that the courts chosen by the parties to a transaction will hear the dispute and that the resulting judgment will be recognised in other countries. i therefore voted against this recommendation, rejecting any weakening of the sovereignty of the states of the nations, including that of my country, france.
in writing. - the hague convention signed on 30 june 2005 states that 'an agreement on the choice of court allows the parties to designate in advance a court of a contracting state which has jurisdiction to hear and determine disputes arising or to arise in connection with a particular area of law'. in principle, the approval of such a convention is an act of judicial sovereignty which must belong exclusively to the states recognised by international law and not to an organisation sui generis, even if it has legal personality. the hague convention will oblige signatory states to accept that a dispute between two parties is decided by a court of a state party to the convention, whether or not it is a member of the european union. the european parliament's unusual approval of the hague convention reflects the european union's desire to have greater powers in the field of foreign policy. as a defender of the full sovereignty of france, i naturally voted against the approval of the hague convention by the european parliament.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of the council decision to approve, on behalf of the european union, the hague convention on choice of court agreements. these agreements stipulate that both parties agree that any dispute will be submitted to the courts of the indicated state. the convention is very important as it defines the choice of court agreements, covers matters of jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement and also regulates several procedural matters. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the approval by the european parliament of the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on the agreements for the election of the forum is a positive step. it will ensure legal certainty without the need to change the legal framework already in place in the european union. the object of the convention is identical to article 25 of the brussels i regulation already in force at european level.
in writing. the spirit of this text is to strengthen the supranational level in areas which fall within the competence of the states. the european union's accession to such a convention also helps to consolidate the eu's legal and political position, which i deplore, and for which reason i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation of my colleague pavel svoboda on the ratification of the hague convention on the election of forums. this agreement reduces the degree of legal uncertainty for european companies trading outside the union, while allowing for the creation of a harmonised set of rules at european level. after its signature in 2009, the council must now ratify the treaty, which the recommendation agrees to do. the text was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the approval of the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements. the convention aims to enhance legal certainty and predictability for parties to inter-company agreements and international disputes by creating a global, optional judicial dispute resolution mechanism. the convention thus guarantees european undertakings operating outside the union that the choice of court agreements included in their contracts are respected and that judgments given by the courts designated in those agreements can be recognised and enforced in the other states parties to the convention.
in writing. - the hague convention deals with agreements on the election of courts in civil and commercial matters. in these types of agreements, the parties decide together in which country the dispute should be settled, thus allowing the parties to decide which law, which national legal body, should be relevant to resolve their disputes. the aim is to ratify the hague convention on private international law, which the union signed in 2009. the convention's wider ratification could provide greater legal certainty for international agreements. it should be noted that so far only mexico has ratified it. however, there are few safeguards to prevent market competition in the legislative systems. in view of the risks of dumping, i shall abstain.
in writing. the hague convention of 30 june 2005 provided that 'an agreement on the choice of court' allows 'parties to designate in advance a court of a contracting state which has jurisdiction to hear and determine disputes arising or to arise in connection with a particular legal relationship'. the hague convention thus clearly disregards the sovereignty of states. thus, in the event of a dispute between two parties, it will have to be decided by a court of a state party, whether or not it belongs to the european union. i am absolutely opposed to the recommendation to approve the hague convention on the election of forums, as i do not want france's sovereignty in legal and foreign policy matters to be further weakened and confiscated by the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which provides for the ratification by the european union of the agreements on the election of the court (the hague convention of 30 june 2005). they concern exclusive choice of court agreements in civil and commercial matters. these agreements are those whereby two parties agree that any dispute between them will be submitted to the courts of the state indicated. this ratification will increase legal certainty when contracts are signed, since the parties will agree in advance on the courts with jurisdiction. this decision excludes insurance contracts concluded by consumers from the scope of the directive, in order to prevent consumers from accepting a choice-of-court clause without their knowledge.
in writing. the hague convention deals with the choice of courts applicable to disputes in international private and commercial law, and its objective is to ensure greater legal certainty. however, these agreements do not guarantee maximum protection for citizens and consumers; i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. this convention should be signed by sovereign states that so wish and not by an institution such as the european union. the fact that the member states are deprived of their legislative powers is unacceptable and contrary to any democracy. i therefore vote against the adoption of this convention.
in writing. in view of the intensification of international trade, it is necessary to provide for clear and predictable legal remedies before the public courts, to which the parties to a transaction agree. the hague convention on forward-voting agreements is trying to do that, which is why i am in favour of it. however, its application remains short-lived worldwide.
in writing. while i voted in favour of unlocking this aid for workers who are victims of ultra-liberalism, i continue to denounce the inconsistency of this european union which is acting like a pyromaniac fireman.
in writing. - this report aims at mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to the amount of eur 1 426 800 to help 565 of the 634 workers made redundant in the rauma region of finland. the purpose of this application is to support redundant employees of stx finland oy, a company active in the shipbuilding sector. in the face of unfair competition from low-cost countries, especially those in asia, and the european union's refusal to protect these borders, this sector can only suffer the consequences of forced globalisation. according to statistics, the union's share in shipbuilding now reaches 5% of the global volume from 13% in 2007 (2013 figures) while china, south korea and japan together have 86% market share from 77% in 2007. europe has thus lost much of its ground to the asian countries, even though it is the cradle of maritime conquest and of the great shipyards such as those in france at saint-nazaire or le havre. i therefore voted in favour of this report in order to support the dismissed workers, particularly those aged between 55 and 64 years, who make up a large proportion of the population.
in writing. parliament approved the request for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) by finland for the shipbuilding company stx rauma. the company was forced to lay off a large number of its employees as a result of strong competition from third countries. more than 500 redundant employees will benefit from training aimed at re-entering the labour market and finding a job. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. with the release of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), 577 workers made redundant by stx finland oy will see their support for re-entry into employment substantially improved. they will rightly benefit from personalised training and counselling to help them reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of stx in finland. eur 1.4 million will be released to help redundant workers in the company reintegrate into the labour market, including through training. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the request by finland to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of redundancies in the shipbuilding company stx finland oy. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this financial aid amounting to over eur 1 420 000.
in writing. as i had already done in the parliamentary committee on employment and social affairs, i voted again in favour of the sarvamaa report to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 634 redundant employees of stx finland oy (rauma site). the egf will finance up to 60% (€1,426,800 for a total cost of €2,378,000) of projects consisting mainly of the distribution of financial aid and the establishment of support for finding a new job, setting up a business or starting up a training course. in the face of mass unemployment and the effects of globalisation, the egf is once again proving to be an effective and sustainable tool for supporting the victims of the successive crises that have hit the countries of the european union.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is playing its destructive role. instead of helping workers it encourages shareholders and states to embrace the social irresponsibility of capitalism. the case of this finnish company specialising in the shipbuilding industry is exemplary. the report's figures reveal the effects of free trade on an industry far ahead of its global competitors: "the union's market share in shipbuilding was 5% in the first three quarters of 2013, down 13% since 2007" while "the equivalent share of china, south korea and japan combined was 86%" over the same period, rising sharply. the report notes that our direct competitors support the shipbuilding industry because of its global impact and employment, but do not propose to do the same in europe by introducing solidarity protectionism. this aid is just a bandage on a failed policy. i shall abstain, however, in order not to oppose the funds which will be distributed to the 500 finnish workers through this fund.
in writing. stx finland oy (division 30 manufacture of other transport equipment) applied for a grant of eur 1 426 800 from the globalisation adjustment fund (gfa) to help the conversion of 634 redundant workers. the workers at the rauma shipyard were the most affected by the redundancies, and the workers at the turku shipyard were not spared either. the recruitment of these employees will be difficult, as many of them are already elderly. stx finland oy's order intake has been declining even as competition from asia has been increasing pressure on the european market. the european shipping industry is facing a tough time with china, south korea and japan. if in these countries shipbuilding, which is expanding rapidly and creating jobs, is largely supported by the states, in the european union ultra-liberal dogma and free and undistorted competition have finally destroyed this sector. without protectionist measures, the shipping industry, like other industries, will not be able to compete with asian countries and their cheap labour. i voted for this grant.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which mobilises eur 1 426 800 for the redundant workers of the finnish shipping company rauma. this firm, which has been hit hard by international competition, has laid off 634 employees, 566 of whom will be eligible for aid. the shipbuilding industry experienced a great boom in the pre-crisis period and many shipyards were established, mainly in asia. with the crisis and increasing competition, the union's market share in the sector has fallen to 5% of the world market this year, from 13% in 2007.
in writing. the european parliament adopted two reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund today. i voted in favour of both of his reports. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament gave its consent to the release of eur 1 426 800 from the fund for 565 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of a shipyard in finland. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of this fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. this proposal follows the dismissal of 634 employees from a company in a region of finland, due in particular to competition in the asian port sector. this european aid will support these employees in their search for a new job or for professional reorientation. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of this fund.
in writing. once again, the european union is trying to partially compensate for the damage it has caused by its blind ideology. the inconsistency of such a policy does not seem to bother anyone. i am voting for this aid to the workers who are victims of european ultra-liberalism.
in writing. following the economic crisis, the supply of shipbuilding was subject to increased competition, causing great difficulties for stx rauma. such a situation in this sector is replicated in a similar way throughout the european union, and displaced workers should be supported in their job search, conversion and business creation.
in writing. in order to mitigate the effects of the closure of stx finland oy in rauma, i voted in favour of granting eur 1 426 800 through the european globalisation adjustment fund. this shipbuilding company, which is highly ranked worldwide, has indeed suffered a dramatic decrease in its orders between 2007 and 2013. by endorsing these funds, we confirm the european union's commitment to the member states and citizens to deal with the economic crisis and the resulting restructuring. finally, it should be noted that this financial aid is accompanied by a number of practical measures to help redundant workers in their plans for reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. i supported this report in order to unlock financial and professional support for the 565 employees of stx finland oy, who were laid off in september 2013 when the rauma shipyard closed. once again, the european globalisation adjustment fund has proved its worth, which is why i am supporting this resolution to continue our commitment to a fairer europe closer to the citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the release of this aid which, however questionable in principle, will help the employees of the gad company. it seems that the difficulties faced by the pig sector are not unrelated to other phenomena which the european union, like the french officials, refuses to consider...
in writing. this report is intended to mobilise a grant of eur 918 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund requested by france to support the conversion of redundant employees of gad, a slaughterhouse specialising in the cutting and processing of pigmeat in the regions of brittany and pays de la loire in france. the restructuring measures concern some 760 workers who have been made redundant. the opening up of all our frontiers to unfair competition from foreign countries, wanted and imposed by brussels europe, explains this social disaster. it is urgent to challenge the ultra-liberal and technocratic europe of brussels by re-establishing customs barriers to save our companies from competition from countries with low labour costs. in addition, it is essential to reinstate french pork in school canteens everywhere, which has often disappeared under pressure from community associations. nevertheless, in order to support the workers who are victims of globalist policies, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant following the closure of the gad slaughterhouse in lampaul-guimiliau in brittany. the pig industry is experiencing very difficult times in brittany. companies are struggling to cope with increasingly fierce global competition. the economic and financial crisis has reduced the consumption of pigmeat in europe, which has a direct impact on producers and slaughterhouses. the eu funds granted to gad will help over 700 redundant workers to re-enter the labour market. this is a victory for european solidarity.
in writing. faced with the decline in pork consumption and the parallel decline in its profit margins, gad, which is mainly located in morbihan and finistère, was forced to make large redundancies. i welcome, as was the case for psa recently, that the european union can take concrete action in france through the european globalisation adjustment fund. the budgetary resources paid out will enable some 744 french workers made redundant by gad to benefit from personalised services, thus facilitating their return to the labour market.
in writing. the global economic and financial crisis has hit many sectors of european industry hard, including the food sector. the french pig sector, particularly in brittany, has been hit hard by the economic crisis, together with the effects of the russian embargo on pigs. in 2014, the breton slaughterhouses gad had to lay off 760 employees due to the decline in pork consumption in france. in this context, the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up to provide rapid assistance to workers affected by the crisis, is useful. it is therefore justified that the european union should provide eur 918 000 for the redundancies, which is equivalent to an average of eur 1 200 per employee. this decision should help former gad workers to find employment by providing them with appropriate support and advice. france should ensure that measures taken at national level complement eu funds so that people who have lost their jobs can effectively be reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague anneli jaatteenmaki on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the dismissed employees of gad in brittany. eur 918 000 will be released to help 744 workers made redundant from the company to help them reintegrate into the labour market, including through training. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the request by france for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund concerning redundancies in the meat processing company gad. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers who have been affected by changes in the structure of international trade as a result of globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this financial aid amounting to over eur 910 000.
in writing. as i had already done in the committee on employment and social affairs, i renewed my vote in favour of the jaatteenmaki report to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 744 redundant workers of the french company gad. the egf will finance 60% (eur 918 000 at a total cost of eur 1 530 000) of the cost of setting up a recruitment unit for these employees made redundant as a result of the crisis in the european agri-food sector, which is particularly acute in the regions of brittany and pays de la loire. in the face of the difficulties posed by mass unemployment, the egf is once again proving to be an effective tool in offering long-term prospects to dismissed employees.
in writing. on 25 november, the european parliament voted to grant eur 918 000 to help the 760 workers made redundant by gad to find new jobs. i voted for it, out of solidarity with those workers. this will finance a 'recruitment unit' which we hope will not be a mere decoy and will increase their chances of finding jobs again through personalised training. the european union is, however, largely responsible for the human tragedy that has hit brittany hard. the secondment directive and the ultra-liberal rules of the european market allowed the german competitors of this company, which specialised in the slaughter of pigs and the processing of their meat, to give it unfair competition by massively recruiting underpaid romanians to beat prices. i therefore denounce the cynicism with which the european union claims to appease the righteous anger of our workers who have been made redundant by giving them alms. ironically, this aid is drawn from the european globalisation adjustment fund, whose name proves that the european monster intends to continue sacrificing french companies on the altar of its ultra-liberal globalisation.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is playing its destructive role. instead of helping workers it encourages shareholders and states to embrace the social irresponsibility of capitalism. the case of the pig slaughterhouses of the company gad in brittany is a typical example of the consequences of the directive on the posting of workers, which institutionalizes social dumping in the union. while the sites concerned were closed, gad, through a foreign temporary agency, was employing around 100 romanian workers at his other site in morbihan, paid 600 euros per month. the company thus saves on social security contributions which are paid, as required by the european directive, in the country of origin. in addition, the report notes the lack of consultation with local authorities and trade unions in this feam. the commission's analysis even states that 'the workers made redundant had not been informed of the request for assistance from the emff'. in these circumstances i shall vote against.
in writing. gad (division 10 industries alimentaires), located in brittany and pays de la loire (france), applied for a grant of eur 918 000 from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) to help reconvert 760 redundant employees. the gad slaughterhouses in brittany, which specialise in cutting and processing pigmeat, have suffered the consequences of the ultra-liberal model and free and undistorted competition imposed by brussels. although the consumption of pig meat has been steadily decreasing in france since 2007, from 43 kg per capita per year to 39 kg in 2013, no direct link can be established with the economic crisis (pork remains the most affordable). on the other hand, it should be noted that the public authorities do nothing to stem this significant decline, preferring, for example, to remove pork from school canteens and thus yielding to communitarian demands. gad and its employees are victims of unfair competition and social dumping on the european market. i voted for this subsidy anyway so as not to further penalise the 760 people who were dismissed from gad.
in writing. i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund which will make it possible to release eur 918 000 for 760 redundancies in the french company gad. this vote recognises that gad is a victim of the crisis and globalisation. this european aid will make it possible to set up a personalised service to help workers find jobs again. i hope that this aid will compensate for the french government's inaction in this matter.
in writing. the european parliament adopted two reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund today. i voted in favour of both reports. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament gave its consent to the release of eur 918 000 from this fund for 760 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of the gad company in brittany. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of this fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. i welcome this vote which will free up almost €1 million for gad employees. brittany sees this as proof that in the midst of the turmoil it can count on the european union. i fully support the european parliament's request to the french government to propose a more ambitious plan, given the scale of the needs.
in writing. this proposal follows the dismissal of 760 employees of the gad company in france, in particular because of the decline in pork consumption since the beginning of the economic crisis in europe. this european aid will support these employees in their search for a new job or for professional reorientation. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of this fund.
in writing. once again, the european union is trying to partially compensate for the damage it has caused by its blind ideology. the inconsistency of such a policy does not seem to bother anyone. i am voting for this aid to the workers who are victims of european ultra-liberalism.
in writing. the market conditions for pigmeat have worsened significantly in recent years leading to the closure of companies such as gad. i therefore vote in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is intended to help redundant workers in such a situation to convert and set up businesses.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting eur 900 000 to persons formerly employed by the french slaughter and processing company gad. the industry, which has been hit hard by the fall in pork consumption, has recorded losses of €65 million over the past three years. this assistance is provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is dedicated to workers in the sectors most affected by the crisis. it will be used to co-finance measures to support the search for employment, training or entrepreneurship for the former employees concerned.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to provide financial and professional assistance to the 760 employees of the gad company, at a time when the pig sector is facing serious difficulties in brittany. the aid will be eur 918 000 for the redundant employees of the company, to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market in an efficient and sustainable way. as a long-time supporter of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i voted in favour of this text because europe must be close to its citizens, especially in times of crisis.
in writing. in the context of the negotiations on the ceta agreements, the european parliament seeks the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on the compatibility of the eu treaties with the proposed transfer of data by air carriers. although i had doubts in advance about the reliability of the opinion that would be delivered, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the exchange of information on air traffic following the agreement between the european union and canada of 25 june is intended to make the fight against terrorism more effective. i am aware of the length of the procedure by requesting an opinion from the cjeu, but i nevertheless believe that legally requesting the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between canada and the european union on the transfer and processing of passenger name record (pnr) data is necessary from the point of view of the protection and use of such data in order to remove any uncertainty as regards the rights of individuals to the protection of personal data. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european union is about to conclude a pnr agreement with canada to facilitate the transfer of airline passengers' personal data to combat jihadist terrorism. in practical terms, this agreement will allow the canadian authorities to access and store data collected by air carriers during booking and registration procedures for a period of five years. this data includes, for example, information on the name, address, telephone number, but also the credit card number or information on the passenger's luggage. these measures, besides contributing to the widespread registration of european citizens, will not make it possible to combat effectively jihadist networks, which are likely to carry out attacks in europe or canada. the fight against jihadist terrorism requires first of all the reintroduction of border controls between member states, the cessation of illegal immigration and the dissolution of fundamentalist associations with proven close links to supporters of the islamic state. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution submitting the pnr agreement to the opinion of the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. i regret that, with this vote, the european parliament has failed to send a positive signal to european citizens and our international partners for better cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. the agreement between the european union and canada on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers to the canada border services agency is now frozen pending an opinion of the court of justice of the european union. at a time when terrorist and jihadist threats are becoming more and more worrying, it is deplorable that politicians vote on ideology at the expense of security. under the pretext of ensuring better protection of personal data, the left-wing parties have delayed the conclusion of this agreement for months, even years, which they oppose. contrary to what is claimed, this decision is contrary to the better protection of european citizens. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. in its opinion, the court of justice will finally provide a legal basis for the processing and transfer of passenger data in the context of so-called passenger name record (pnr) agreements. this will provide a framework for future agreements between the european union and canada and with other countries in the future. this should also improve and strengthen international cooperation in the fight against terrorism. and why not pave the way for a european pnr?
in writing. when utopianism and ideology take precedence over lucidity and realism, we end up with a resolution that sacrifices the security of citizens and makes our traditional partners the defenders of our freedoms. by referring the agreement on the transfer of passenger data between the european union and canada to the court of justice, we have just demonstrated that:- the european parliament, lacking the ability to weigh up the council and the commission, is unable to discern the security requirements claimed by its own citizens and to assume its responsibilities as a legislator;- the left coalition and the national front, never short of speeches on the protection of citizens, come to assume the endangerment of travellers and the risk that their data will be transferred outside a legal framework by ignorance of the agreement and any form of rejection of americanism; - the same groups that sent messages of support to canada at the time of the parliament attack, immediately afterwards denounce this essential partner in the fight against terrorism as a manipulator and enemy of democracy. a great lesson in diplomacy and a real vision for europe!
in writing. i voted against this resolution calling for referral to the court of justice of the compatibility of the treaties with the agreement between the european union and canada on the transfer and processing of passenger name record (pnr) data. the text is intended to delay the entry into force of the agreement signed on 25 june 2014 after two years of negotiations. this new agreement strengthens the protection of travellers by introducing administrative or judicial recourse before canadian courts. the text was adopted by a majority of 383 votes in favour, 271 against and 47 abstentions, which i regret.
in writing. i voted against the resolution requesting the european court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between canada and the european union on the transfer and processing of passenger name record (pnr) data signed on 25 june 2014. the transfer of pnr data is intended to enable better prevention and detection of terrorist offences or serious transnational crime. it is therefore an essential tool in the fight against organised crime and in ensuring the safety of european citizens. the european union already has an agreement on the transfer and use of pnr data with the canadian authorities. the main objective of this new agreement is to strengthen the legal framework for the use, protection and access to pnr data in order to provide better safeguards for air passengers. the resolution will thus lead to a significant delay in the implementation of the agreement and deprive many european air passengers of a meaningful legal framework for the processing of their data.
in writing. we voted for this draft resolution which will allow the european parliament to refer the accounting of passenger name records (passenger name record data) agreements to the court of justice because it supports the rights of european citizens and, by extension, french citizens.
in writing. - the european union has concluded an agreement with canada on the processing of passenger name record (pnr) data since 2005. a new agreement was signed in july 2014. before ratifying it, parliament considered it necessary to verify its conformity with the provisions of the treaties and asked the court of justice for an opinion. the issues at issue concern in particular the right of natural persons to the protection of personal data. in order to safeguard this right, i support this request from parliament and i vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. the european parliament wants to refer the matter to the court of justice of the european union to verify legally the compatibility of the processing and transfer of pnr (passenger name record) data by air carriers to the canada border services agency, in the framework of the agreement between the european union and canada. the epp has tried to have this proposal removed from the agenda, on the grounds that the procedure might be too long.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. under the pretext of defending freedoms that are not threatened or of protecting personal data that are not, asking the court of justice for an opinion on this agreement would have created a very serious precedent which could have undermined the credibility and effectiveness of the fight against terrorism in europe as well as in canada. the pnr agreement is about enhancing the security of people travelling between canada and the european union, which is vital in a world where terrorism threatens us every day.
in writing. i voted against the referral to the court of justice of the transfer of passenger data between the european union and canada. the current situation, after the terrorist attack in ottawa in october and the proven return of jihadists from syria, the safety of citizens requires that we share this type of data.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which raises a fundamental question to the court of justice of the european union on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between canada and the european union on the transfer and processing of passenger name record data. the prospect of signing a transatlantic agreement does not justify in any way a lowering of the level of protection of personal data of european citizens, and the adoption of procedures which go against fundamental rights.
in writing. for once, parliament seems to be concerned about the consistency of the various eu regulations and wants to check whether the eu/canada agreements are compatible with the treaties. this is a concern that is unfortunately rare in so many other areas. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i did not support today the motion for a decision for the european parliament to ask the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility of the agreement between the european union and canada on the transfer and use of passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers to the canadian border services agency with the treaties. we asked for a more detailed discussion of the proposal in the committees, but the majority of parliament rejected it. i support this eu-canada agreement, along with my group in the ep, because it is a suitable and effective tool to protect the security of citizens and to counter terrorist threats. i am aware of the sensitivity of the handling of personal data, but i am convinced that this issue is adequately addressed in the agreement.
in writing. a legal imbalance between the european union and canada is detrimental to travellers and airlines. for the time being, legal certainty requires the adoption of such an agreement, which is why i am voting against a motion for a resolution which risks rendering any decision inoperative because it is too late.
in writing. - european citizens expect the european union to respond to the emergency posed by european combatants and the terrorist threat on its territory. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, including the introduction of the pnr, and has also taken a number of measures to combat terrorism. i have decided to abstain on this vote, however, because i do not think that referring the agreement to the court of justice of the european union for an opinion is the right course of action. it is the responsibility of the elected members of the european parliament to take the most delicate political decisions, knowing that the court will always ensure that the treaties are properly applied. in the absence of an agreement, pnr data will continue to be transferred, but without a legal framework, which will weaken the level of protection of passenger data in canada. in the immediate future, discussions on the european pnr are likely to be blocked, whereas the european union would benefit from having its own rules that protect personal data more effectively. in the meantime, member states have already adopted their own pnr system, resulting in heterogeneous and uncoordinated measures that only weaken the european union's response to terrorism.
in writing. - the exchange of information on air passengers is an essential element in the fight against terrorism. the agreement between the european union and canada on the processing of such data, signed on 25 june, is therefore a step in the right direction and i support it. i also believe that this agreement should enter into force as soon as possible to ensure that the transfer and use of our information guarantees the protection of the personal data of european citizens. the 2005 agreement, which expired in 2009, has not yet been succeeded. if we now ask the court of justice for an opinion, we are in fact postponing the adoption of this agreement for several months, since the opinion is suspended. in view of the experience gained with agreements of this kind, i do not believe that this request is appropriate and therefore i did not wish to support it.
in writing. i voted against this request for a reference to the court for an opinion on the pnr agreement with canada. in the current security environment, this new arrangement, which has been negotiated for almost two years, will strengthen the protection of travellers who can now bring an administrative or judicial action before canadian courts. the request and the vote to refer the matter to the court is a bad signal from the european union to canada, which has just been the victim of an attack on its soil and has always been a key partner in both the fight against terrorism and our trade relations.
in writing. i voted against the report on the european union and the post-2015 global development framework because despite the good intentions, there are major shortcomings, namely the management of migration flows and corruption. there is no paragraph on immigration management, whereas the issue of migration is linked to our development effort, and this is to loosen the grip on europe. the issue of corruption is not being dealt with with the importance it should be. yet it is a major factor in the perpetuation of conflicts and the plundering of the resources of certain countries by multinational corporations and transnational mafia networks. i therefore believe that the means that will be put in place to control and spend the money should be reflected in such a report. we need to know who this money is being distributed to. i think that by failing to treat these issues with the importance they deserve, we will continue to deal with the consequences without looking at the real causes of poverty and all the human disorders. i cannot therefore support this report.
in writing. i have decided to vote against this report, which is full of declarations of good intentions without proposing any relevant solutions. i hope that the european union will concentrate on the problems of the citizens of its member states, which are getting worse every year.
in writing. this report, which is merely a list of wishes, will not, as usual, address all the priorities it contains. the european union and the united nations want to cut in half the people who suffer from hunger and also multiply the challenges of scale on many problems such as human rights violations, unemployment, climate change, corruption, economic and financial crises, poverty and many others ... of course, this will only be at the stage of declaring good intentions. the european union, unable to solve the problems it is facing, nevertheless intends to support this declaration. on page 23 the explanatory memorandum states, for example, that 'the union has recognised that there can be no sustainable development without peace and security, and vice versa: without development and the eradication of poverty, there can be no sustainable peace'. this is a laudable objective, but we should start applying the advice given to ourselves, since 24% of the total population of the union (more than 120 million people) is at risk of poverty or social exclusion and this figure is only increasing. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. fifteen years ago, the united nations adopted the millennium development goals, which set targets and deadlines for 2015. with these deadlines coming to an end, it was time to take stock of the various steps taken since 2000 and the efforts still to be made after 2015. overall, extreme poverty has been cut in half. in addition, there have been many advances in health care, including the fight against malaria and tuberculosis. nevertheless, much remains to be done in the areas of human rights, poverty eradication, sustainable development, conflict prevention and resolution, to name a few. i voted in favour of this report, which makes it possible to set european development objectives once again.
in writing. in foreign policy, the european parliament has few powers. the value of this report is therefore all the greater. it allows him to assert his uniqueness and his priorities. among the many interesting recommendations, i voted with interest for those relating to the empowerment of women and the elimination of all forms of violence against them.
in writing. the un millennium development goals initiative launched in 2005 has halved extreme poverty and the number of people without access to a source of drinking water in 10 years. however, lessons from the mdgs' failure to deliver on the new post-2015 framework should be drawn from the eradication of poverty and reduction of inequalities, in particular in access to health and education. the future european development strategy must also be provided with sufficient financial resources. the member states must not only meet their commitments to allocate 0.7% of their gni to development aid, but also consider raising private funds through innovative mechanisms, such as air ticket taxes or the international funding facility for vaccination (iffim), a uk company that raises funds on the financial markets to be used by organisations fighting the spread of aids. finally, the heads of state or government of the member states must implement the draft tax on financial transactions which help to finance development aid.
in writing. unfortunately, the report has two major flaws which led me to vote against it. on the one hand, the issue of migration flows is not addressed in an operational and realistic manner. on the other hand, the systems of corruption and misappropriation of european aid funds are not dealt with with sufficient firmness and precision to put an end to these networks and financial fraud.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague davor ivo stier's report on the european union and the global development framework after 2015. the text stresses the importance of maintaining the eu's level of development aid, the highest in the world, while tackling more effectively the causes of poverty by promoting the principles of good governance, democracy and the rule of law. i am glad that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this resolution to set out an ambitious and universal post-2015 agenda to go beyond the millennium development goals (mdgs) set out in the united nations framework in 2000. a number of quantified sub-goals are to achieve the following eight goals by 2015: reducing extreme poverty and hunger, ensuring primary education for all, promoting gender equality and women's empowerment, reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, combating hiv, malaria and other diseases, protecting the environment, and establishing a global partnership for development. a new generation of mdgs should be promoted, giving greater prominence to environmental issues as factors for development, in view of the changing global challenges and the link between environmental protection, improved health, prosperity (green growth) and peace.
in writing. - in september 2000, the united nations adopted a millennium declaration setting out specific goals to be achieved by 2015. the millennium development goals (mdgs) have brought about a significant improvement in certain human situations. within a year of the target date, extreme poverty was reduced by half worldwide, and impressive progress was made in the fight against malaria and tuberculosis. the european parliament is continuing its work towards the adoption of an ambitious development agenda for the period after 2015. the report sets out the objectives of the programme: eradication of poverty, human rights, health, education, combating global warming, and so on. even if this is largely wishful thinking in view of the union's devastating free trade policy, i am voting in favour.
in writing. i voted against this report, which is really nothing but a list of wishful thinking and empty words. the first recital in the preamble to the motion for a resolution reads as follows: 'whereas in the year 2000 all relevant stakeholders met to define the mdgs with a view to achieving concrete results in development and poverty eradication by 2015'. it is worth noting that the objective of eradicating poverty by 2015 will be very difficult to achieve in time, including in the european union! except for believing in miracles, of course! the priorities in point iii are: poverty eradication, reduction of inequalities and sustainable development, human rights-based approach, conflict prevention, post-conflict recovery, peacebuilding and the promotion of sustainable peace, climate change mitigation, environmental protection and disaster risk reduction, food security, nutrition, sustainable agriculture, combating land degradation, water and sanitation, health and education, the central role of women in global development after 2015, inclusive and sustainable growth, employment and decent job creation, etc. in short, a list of good intentions to give oneself a good conscience, endorsed by the united nations and the european union. as for the right of peoples to self-determination and the non-interference of the great world powers, the report says nothing...
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the post-2015 global development framework. the year 2015 is the deadline set by the international community to achieve the eight millennium development goals, which have been agreed by all countries of the world. as the deadline approached, it was necessary to take stock of the actions taken to achieve these objectives in order to draw lessons from them. since the year 2000 (the date of the signing of the millennium declaration), there has been a succession of global crises and a major deterioration in the economic situation. however, we must continue on the path towards achieving the millennium development goals, in particular to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in particular because it supports the introduction of a policy more geared to the private sector: the aim is to encourage the emergence of a local private sector in the countries where the european union intervenes. this policy will enable the beneficiary countries to develop their own jobs internally through the emergence of smes/tees.
in writing. i supported the vote on the report on european priorities for global development after the expiry of the millennium development goals in 2015. the compromise text contains very positive elements, such as the universality of the global development framework, the development of binding rules for multinationals, a european trade strategy to maintain high social and environmental standards, the fight against social and environmental dumping, a commitment to quality european aid, a specific objective for gender equality, and a goal for universal access to health.
in writing. to have a development policy, of course, but it should still be sensible. the resolution proposes measures which are wholly inadequate to combat corruption and the misappropriation of european funds (whereas so many scandals have shown that there is an urgent need to better control the actual destination of the funds granted). the text is very unsatisfactory on another point, the migration policy. with these two major omissions, the resolution is unacceptable. i therefore vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the union and the post-2015 global development framework. the eight millennium development goals (mdgs) set up in 2000 for developing countries are due to expire in 2015. but today, in 2014, not all of these goals have been achieved. this is why the un has been thinking about a new development framework for the post-2015 period, based on the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and a global agenda. it was important for the european union and in particular for the european parliament to take a position on the post-2015 development framework and the sdgs. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has thus been able to set its main priorities, recalling the need for an approach based on respect for human rights.
in writing. with the approach of intergovernmental negotiations following the commitments to the united nations on the millennium development goals, it is necessary for the european union to weigh in with all its weight by agreeing on priority positions. i therefore vote in favour of the report on the union and the global development framework in order to encourage the international community to persevere in the face of the challenges of the 21st century, including the eradication of poverty through education and the place of women in society as well as sustainable development and peacekeeping.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which calls on the international community to set an ambitious and universal post-2015 agenda with sustainable development goals involving countries from all over the world. the new agenda has identified priority themes, some of which are particularly close to my heart: access to primary and secondary education for girls, universal health care and access to sexual and reproductive rights, and the fight against violence against women. in this regard, we recall the award of the 2014 sakharov prize to dr. mukwege, who has worked so hard to repair the damage suffered by women who are victims of rape and female genital mutilation.
in writing. the millennium development goals, which were set in 2000, are coming to an end and will soon be redefined. future negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda will result in a new set of goals and replace the millennium development goals. i supported this text because it is urgent to define sustainable and comprehensive solutions to combat inequalities, eradicate poverty and defend human rights in the world. the european union will be a central player in these future negotiations and it is important that it continues to play its central role in the international arena in the field of development policy.
in writing. i opposed this report because the following two points are mentioned far too briefly: - the management of migration flows; and - the reference to corruption networks and the establishment of systems that would allow the control of the recipients of european aid funds.
in writing. from the liberalisation of regulated professions to the posted workers directive, where is the social europe that has been promised for so many years? in its communication of 5 march on the europe 2020 strategy, the commission is obliged to acknowledge that 'progress so far has been mixed'. but then, instead of continuing to blame the 2008 crisis, what are our great strategists waiting for to finally question themselves? while the european union's arrears pile up, the commission still promises to spend billions of euros it does not have... on projects that do not work. instead of playing on advertising effects, it is high time that the european union changed its paradigm and broke with the dogma of the 'free movement of capital, goods and persons'.
in writing. this motion for a resolution, which i voted against, is just another text which is supposed to solve all the problems of employment in europe. the resolution's findings are overwhelming: unemployment at 10.1%, an increase of 10 million people since 2008, for a total of 123 million europeans at risk of poverty, a considerable increase in income inequality and so on. it is clear that the european union's liberal and austerity policies, which impose free and undistorted competition, the total opening of borders without any counterpart and the profusion of standards and regulations have done nothing to improve the employment situation in europe. what is worse is that it is clear that this technocratic union has rather encouraged the ruin of peoples and the emergence of mass unemployment. we will not solve the situation with fine speeches, it is high time for a radical change in european policy and the results of last may have shown this aspiration of the citizens for a renewal.
in writing. we are looking at the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy. unemployment, insecurity and so on. instead of getting closer to your goals, you get further away from them. according to this strategy, employment is an absolute right. however, the employment rate did not increase. another structural failure of the european union. its bureaucracy and regulations suffocate our smes. as the resolution points out, 'the european union is far from having achieved the overall objectives of the europe 2020 strategy on employment and poverty reduction'. the unemployment rate "reached an alarming 10.1% in 2014, with 24.6 million people unemployed in the union and a growing number of working poor". it is not surprising that this strategy, like the previous ones, does not work. the precariousness and flexibility advocated can only aggravate poverty and precariousness. this european union continues to hold out the promise of a bright future. i can only doubt it after so many strategies. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution on employment and social aspects in the context of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the europe 2020 strategy was set up to give political, economic and social momentum to a europe in crisis. it is based on five objectives: employment, education, poverty reduction, combating climate change and research and development. the aim is to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i voted in favour of the resolution on employment and social aspects in the europe 2020 strategy. it was time, halfway through, to take stock of the progress made in employment and to determine what efforts needed to be mobilised. the crisis we are experiencing is not only economic but also social. we must fight to redress the unemployment curve and particularly youth unemployment by adopting appropriate structural reforms as proposed in the european commission's country-specific recommendations.
in writing. - as the unemployment rate in the european union reached alarming levels in 2014 and the risk of poverty is increasing, it is necessary for member states to adopt a mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy to meet these challenges. they must also agree on the establishment of mechanisms for coordinating and monitoring progress in employment, education and the fight against poverty, and on the financing of these measures. the european parliament, through this resolution, is contributing to the debate on the revision of the europe 2020 strategy. i support in particular the provisions stressing the need to ensure a 75% employment rate by 2020 in the european union, the reduction of school drop-out rates to below 10%, and the lifting of 20 million people out of poverty and exclusion. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. by voting for this resolution, the european parliament emphasises the need to properly integrate employment recovery and social aspects into the europe 2020 strategy. the creation of quality jobs, not just precarious jobs, is a priority for the european union in this new legislature. this requires the reindustrialisation of europe, the revival of competitiveness, and quality lifelong learning. i am also particularly in favour of the european parliament's desire to remove the excessive administrative burdens on smes, the backbone of our economies.
in writing. - on tuesday, i voted in favour of a resolution aimed at promoting better social conditions in europe, as part of the europe 2020 strategy. inequalities are widening in the distribution of wealth and income and disparities are increasing between member states, particularly in the employment of young people. the european union must therefore take a more ambitious approach to combating unemployment and returning to work to ensure that every european citizen has a decent life. to achieve this, the union must give equal consideration to social and employment policies and macroeconomic policies if it is to finally emerge from the crisis.
in writing. with an employment rate of 68.4% in 2013 (the target was 75%) and 122.6 million people at risk of poverty or social exclusion (the target was 96.4 million), the credibility of the europe 2020 strategy is at stake today, as we are so far from the mark. that is why i gave my full support to this resolution, in order to stress the need to fully integrate the social and employment objectives into the european semester, by strengthening the social indicators and finally making them binding, as well as the economic and budgetary policy objectives in the framework of the stability and growth pact. it is no longer possible to have social policy coordination on the one hand and macroeconomic governance on the other hand, which do not play by the same rules. i voted against the reference to 'a relaxation of the labour market' because i believe that this is not the way we will help create quality jobs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleague marita ulvskog on employment and social aspects in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. this text is part of the mid-term review of the 10-year strategy to revive the european economy. it stressed the importance of continuing the implementation of the 2020 strategy, with a more ambitious approach to combating unemployment and returning to work, especially among young people. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i supported the resolution on employment and social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy. this strategy, launched by the union in 2010, aims to boost the european economy through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. through this strategy, the european union has set itself five major objectives to be achieved by 2020 in the areas of employment, research, environment and energy, education, social inclusion and poverty reduction. the resolution calls on the member states to continue their efforts and adopt, inter alia, a more ambitious approach to combating unemployment and re-employment, particularly among young people.
in writing. we voted against this motion for a resolution which goes against our expectations: the objective of the europe 2020 strategy is to strengthen coordination between national economic policies, while this motion for a resolution calls for a european approach to employment and social affairs. we are against this motion.
in writing. - this resolution strongly criticises the europe 2020 strategy and its employment performance. the text blames the fall in public spending even though "the rise in unemployment led to an increased need for social protection. it also denounced "the many job losses and wage cuts" which threatened "the european social model". it deplored the fact that current policies remain 'focused exclusively on economic growth without taking into account the need for an inclusive, sustainable and rights-based approach' and called for 'a rebalancing of the strategy between financial and economic priorities and strong social priorities'. the report even notes that the "increasing inequalities in the union pose significant risks to democracy". nevertheless, the proposed solutions are based on old, ineffective liberal practices: elimination of unnecessary administrative burdens and bureaucracy for the selfemployed, micro-enterprises and smes, reduction of labour taxation, improvement of worker mobility, etc. i vote against it.
in writing. work brings dignity to the person. the european union has proved incapable of putting in place policies that are sufficiently dynamic and effective to stimulate economic activity. she even acted the opposite way. it has thus imposed on all the member states the ultra-liberal dogma and free and undistorted competition, which have led to deindustrialisation, relocations and the explosion of unemployment in europe. the austerity measures it has called for have, on the other hand, finally reduced the purchasing power of our countrymen. the employment rate has not increased in europe in ten years. in france, growth is currently zero and will soon sink into deflation. all this to save a single currency that has ruined the peoples of europe. the european union is faced with a structural failure of its policies. as far as smes, smes and smes are concerned, they are literally drowning under the ever more burdensome and restrictive european administrative standards and regulations. by stifling businesses in this way, the european union has contributed to the bankruptcy of many of them and the resulting redundancies. finally, the union did not want to build a social europe, preferring in reality to support the camp of the most savage capitalism. i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the text, which is a compromise between the various political groups in parliament, raises the question of the consideration of social and employment aspects in european union policy until 2020 (europe 2020 strategy). this resolution rightly emphasises that job creation requires the reindustrialisation of our continent and entrepreneurship, as part of a long-term strategy. this is the opposite of the current french government's approach, which prefers to subsidize precarious jobs by increasing the public deficit, without succeeding in reducing unemployment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i am convinced that the training of the population, and in particular of the unemployed and young people, must be a fundamental part of our growth strategy. our economies need people who are properly trained and who are focused on industries and services that are growth drivers.
in writing. the report deplores the fact that the eu's efforts are focused mainly on economic growth and often little on rights, and calls for ambitious and binding measures for member states to effectively combat unemployment and provide quality jobs, especially for young people and people in the hardest hit regions such as the ors. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. once again, a resolution proposes to combat the effects of the european union's economic policy by strengthening its causes. no, destroying national legislation under the pretext of harmonizing it to make 'more europe' will not solve the crisis, restore growth or combat unemployment. the facts prove it every day. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this resolution, which is part of the review of the europe 2020 policy objectives, the achievement of which should be encouraged. only the perseverance and the guarantee of joint action by the european institutions and its member states will make it possible to overcome the challenges facing the european union. however, in the context of the review of the strategy, it is clear that the inclusion of the fight against youth unemployment and support for training is part of this perspective.
in writing. i supported this resolution, which is part of the overall context of the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy. the strategy was launched in 2010 and set out five priority objectives: employment, education, poverty reduction, combating climate change and research and development (r&d). i supported this resolution to underline the importance of continuing to implement this strategy, while insisting on a more ambitious approach to combating unemployment and returning to work, especially among young people.
in writing. i am opposed to this report because the aim of the europe 2020 strategy is to integrate the different national economic policies and to centralise their control. the strategy's slogan is: more europe in social and labour matters. obviously less is needed.
president budg. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you said, the conciliation committee was unable to reach a conclusion. so this is a big disappointment, but it's also a real hope. it is a great disappointment because the conclusion was a failure and because it took until monday 17 november, the last day of conciliation, to get the council's proposal at 1 p.m. for almost 21 days our conciliation was hemiplegic, only one of the two branches of the budgetary authority was functioning. it is also disappointing because the ministers have been very absent during all these discussions. mr zanetti did all he could, and i commend his efforts, but the other people present had no real mandate, they were probably busy dealing with the problems of amending the regulation on the member states' contributions to the budget of the european union. finally, it is also disappointing because the proposal which came to us at 1 p.m. on monday 17 november was unacceptable. so i also said that this committee finally gave us some real hope. it is hoped that this will help the council to understand that europe cannot remain in a situation where the unpaid debts are piling up on the commission's desk: 5 billion in 2010, probably 30 billion by the end of 2014. but when there are unexpected revenues - and this is what happened in 2014, almost 5 billion unexpected revenues - they must be allocated to the payment of the oldest invoices. we hope that in the coming days we will be able to share this principle with the council, because to allow the accumulation of unpaid invoices on the commission's desk is to damage the credit of the european union, which is creating fake money. there are resources, the question is simple: should these unforeseen resources of five billion go into the member states' accounts or should they be used primarily to pay outstanding bills? we told you what we believed. i hope that in the coming days we will find the right answer through trilogues and through further conciliation meetings in close cooperation with the commission and the council. it is a question of the credibility of the european union, which must pay its debts.
madam president, the european commission should amend the 2015 budget of the european union to allow certain member states to defer their payments, following the revision of their gni. the united kingdom will therefore have to pay an additional contribution of eur 2 billion by 1 december 2014. the prime minister, mr cameron, said he wouldn't pay. since 1984, under mrs thatcher, the united kingdom has been receiving a rebate on the famous principle: i want my money back. this retaliation against the united kingdom, which, let us admit, has perfectly well defended its own interests, is of course supported, in the name of solidarity dear to the european union, by the other member states, including france. but with zero growth, 8.4 million poor and more than 5 million unemployed, france is now economically and socially struggling. france already pays 21 billion and only gets back 13; obviously, the account is not there. why the 21 billion? the level of unpaid debts has exploded, from 5 billion in 2010 to almost 30 billion at the end of 2014. and with what result? no growth and a steadily rising unemployment rate. the european union is really going into debt, and this is contrary to the very spirit of the european treaties. the european union imposes budgetary austerity on the member states, even though it has hidden invoices in the drawers.
madam president, commissioner, minister, here we are. the payment crisis has become an institutional crisis. on the one hand we have the council, which is on the verge of schizophrenia with member states which have committed themselves to expenditure but refuse to find the means to pay it. we'd just like to know how they plan to get out of this deadlock. on the other hand, we have a european commission which seems to want to please everybody but forgets its primary mission, which is to protect the community's interests. and we, the members of the european parliament, want only one thing: that everyone should keep his word and his commitments. i tell you what i think: what i see in the press displeases me and frightens me greatly. the council cannot seriously allow the impression to be created that parliament is blocking the union's budget. let everyone take responsibility, because this blockage comes at the worst time and it is not trivial. it was the financial crisis that led to an economic and social crisis and it was the inability of the member states to offer a response other than austerity that aggravated this crisis. as i said, there is now an institutional and political crisis undermining our common project. madam commissioner, mr minister, our europe is hungry for investment and all the experts, all the economists, the commission and the member states are saying the same thing: we need investments of between 1 500 and 2 000 billion by 2020, and today we are here begging for 4 billion. the budgetary impasse we are discussing today is also a reflection of the investment plan, which may not even reach the 300 billion announced, as is the delay in implementing the structural funds. the member states must get out of their obsession with austerity, ordo-liberalism and the selfishness of the just return. all this is not up to the challenges of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, the budgetary conciliation procedure has indeed failed both in the 2014 amending budget and in the 2015 budget. all this because the council refuses to understand that it is in the interest of the member states to face the threat of recession collectively. i believe that the council must now take the necessary political height and assume its responsibilities. we cannot accept that the bills remain unpaid and then the council reduces its commitments. we need to find some room to maneuver. the reimbursement of fines to the eu budget, 5 billion in 2014, is a first possibility. however, new perspectives must be examined, in particular the resources linked to the financial transaction tax but also, no doubt, the exclusion of the contributions of the states to the european budget from the famous convergence criteria which would make the system much more virtuous. i would also like to say that we must not forget the enormous revenue that would be generated by a thorough fight against tax evasion.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, many thanks to all the speakers for the comments that have been made on the immediate problems in hand to bring the budget negotiations to a successful closure, as well as on the future of the eu budget. in terms of the immediate task facing us, we are prepared to work very actively with parliament and the council to make sure that there is full clarity on the proposal we will be making concerning 2015, and that, in terms of a longer-term stability of our budget, we have an agreement in support of the payment plan i outlined at the beginning. it is our duty as the commission to provide a credible underpinning to the decisions of the two sides of the budget authority, and we will do our duty. there are, however, fundamental questions on the future of the european union budget in terms of its sourcing, the question of own resources, as well as in terms of the quality of spending and how we make every euro work to the fullest for the european people. i want to assure you that we will look at these two issues – the immediate budget, forming the budget for europe, as well as the longer-term sustainability of our budget – equally seriously. as it happens, this will be in the first week of december, when we will have two critical discussions: one a trilogue on the 2014-2015 package, and the other, the monti group on own resources. the commission will be participating very seriously in this meeting – myself, first vice-president timmermans and commissioner moscovici. i think we do indeed have to keep an eye on making sure that we create a budgetary decision-making environment that unites us and does not divide us.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened to all the speeches, as i have listened to the speeches of the members of the european parliament at previous meetings, both here in the plenary and in committee. i do not think this is the time to be petrified of recriminations, of why the conciliation did not produce the desired result. we have a second time that must be properly used. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. i am saying this from the point of view of experience gained in participating in this budgetary work. there is no doubt that the council must be the council and not a multilateral table of 28. there is no doubt, however, that on the specific issue of the allocation of resources to the european budget, each country also has a role as a contributor, which inevitably and understandably leads it to make assessments linked to its budgetary problems, which sometimes also arise from the need to comply with obligations deriving from the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. citizens need to know how much they're paying for each level of government: the european commission has already set up a european network of local authorities, which is to be used to develop and implement the european strategy for the environment. it is the best way to ensure that there is real, full responsibility on the part of everyone, and by everyone i really mean all the actors in the process, because the moment there is a european tax perceived directly as such it is clear that the same european institutions other than the council of contributors will also have a need to respond in a more direct way to the fiscal tightening that the possible increased budgetary appropriations are going to cause. so that step is definitely important. this is my contribution to the positive debate we have had today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president of the committee on budgets. - madam president, it is true that parliaments were set up to give their consent to taxation, and the day the european parliament can vote on taxation, we will have taken a decisive step. but let it be clear that the european tax will have to be compensated by a reduction in the taxes levied at national level. that said, our conciliation has ended in failure. it has taught us a lesson, and i hope it will be taken into account. the conciliation process has just begun, and i am glad that our committee on budgets was able to adopt its position unanimously on the basis of the method and the principles. no doubt, mr zanetti, you have suffered during these 21 days of conciliation. no doubt you have suffered because there has been a clear dysfunction in the council. i'm pleading that this never happens again. tomorrow, like every member of parliament, i hope that when i return to my constituency, to my country, i will be able to explain very simply to my fellow citizens what we are doing here. i would like to explain to them that we cannot continue to accumulate debts because the first political decision is the commitment, and the commitment is made by the budgetary authority, that is to say the council and parliament. the payment is only the fulfillment of that first commitment. so let's get out of the dysfunctions of public governance! this is true at national level as well as at the level of the european union. i hope that the conciliation which has just begun will be successful, that it will be completed before christmas and that we will give the commission the means it needs to conduct a policy which is favourable to growth and employment but which is free from the kind of tricks we deplore, namely the accumulation of debts. we must find a structural and lasting solution.
in writing. the european commission is asking us to amend the 2015 budget to help certain states, due to the revision of their gni (gross national income), to defer their payment. nine countries are particularly affected, including the united kingdom, the netherlands and italy. the united kingdom will thus have to pay an additional contribution of 2.1 billion euros, even though it is already benefiting from a rebate borne by other states such as my own, france, whose economic and social situation no longer allows it to continue to pay 21 billion euros a year to the european budget and only to recover 13 billion. to quote margaret thatcher, we too want to say "i want my money back!" more worrying is the level of arrears this year. they were 5 billion euros in 2010 and reached the staggering sum of 30 billion in 2014. the european union, which is a bad payer, is in a difficult position because it requires the member states, subject to the budgetary treaty, to manage their budgets in an exemplary manner and to return to financial balance, while the gendarme himself hides the bills in a drawer and is thus clearly incapable of applying the fine theories which he would like to extend to the whole union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 62 million women in europe say they have been victims of sexual or physical violence at least once in their lives. i say: this figure is a scandal! this figure can no longer be ignored and you, madam commissioner, cannot just find out! now, what are the real questions? how is it that rape is still not recognised as a criminal offence in all member states? who can believe that in 2014, the istanbul convention, which provides a comprehensive framework to prevent violence, to protect victims, to prosecute perpetrators, is ratified by only seven member states? how is it that you, the commission, have consistently refused to come forward with a legislative proposal on preventive measures? we have to act here and now. we want a european observer on violence against women. we want a binding legal framework to harmonize preventive measures, especially from the top, and you must put pressure on the member states to ratify the istanbul convention. in conclusion, i would say that we cannot wait any longer. it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to take women out of the zone of non-equality in which europe has locked them up. (applause) i would like to thank
question for the council mr president, mr salvini, i will simply say that france and britain bear an overwhelming responsibility for the destabilization of syria and libya. today we are witnessing an explosion of migration in the mediterranean. should our continent - the european union - be a machine for producing undocumented people?
mr president, once again in this house we share the tragic experience, we speak of the thousands of deaths, the tens of thousands of deaths mentioned twice this morning by the pope, who spoke of the cemetery in the mediterranean, the cemetery of indifference, as sandro gozi said. tonight, once again, we share the same view: our migration policy is not working well enough - to say the least - and this global strategy that we all call wishful thinking is a necessity. you spoke, commissioner, of political will. we expect you to really create this momentum, this impetus to push the states to consider that the external borders are european, that there are real reception measures - and we will be close to you - which are an expression of european solidarity, responsibility or shared responsibility, as you have said. i have a request in the short time i have, namely that in the context of the elaboration of this overall strategy in the mediterranean, in particular, we pay particular attention to minors, the vulnerable people who are children, it is a ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in your overall approach to the european union's migration issue, mr moraes and mr avramopoulos are careful to avoid the fundamental problems, which are really not reassuring for the future. we know that in italy, out of 12 identification and detention centres, 8 have been closed down because of the illegal migrant revolts. the situation there is explosive and, as mr salini said, italians have suffered the arrival of 150,000 to 160,000 illegal migrants on their shores in 2014 alone. despite the frontex loophole and the budget that goes with it, the union's policy has turned italy into a gigantic sorting centre before the dispersal of these illegal migrants in the various schengen countries and in particular in my own country, france. as a member of parliament from nice, close to the italian border, i can see that we are overwhelmed by the influx of illegal immigrants: more than a thousand a week. the council said in october, and i quote: 'measures must be taken to better manage migration flows'. the only way forward is to immediately reverse these immigration policies, suspend the schengen agreements and return sovereignty and control of borders to the states.
mr president, we are concerned about the dispatches on migration issues. between the calls for solidarity, firmness and a rapid revision of european rules, there is as much information as misinformation. one thing is certain, however, and many colleagues have mentioned it before me: the union is struggling to adopt a comprehensive, long-term, strategic and, above all, legible migration policy. it's not unusual for vision to be fragmented and short-term. so, as a new era opens for our institutions, we must achieve a profound change in migration policies. i believe that we must be committed and proactive and propose another policy which promotes, for example, better movement of people and skills, existing or to be promoted legal migration routes, which also promotes effective access to asylum procedures and the development of alternatives for people seeking international protection, and which also promotes a renewed partnership with third countries. i listened to you very carefully, commissioner, and i have noted many points of agreement. i therefore look forward to your concrete proposals to respond to the urgency, but also to take action in the long term.
mr president, i think that if there is one major issue which requires a common european response, it is the question of migration. i think it is high time that the heads of state or government realised this and moved forward to build a common immigration policy based on four pillars. the first pillar is that we must have real security, real surveillance and protection of our external borders by air, land and sea, with, why not, european coast guards. the second pillar is the corollary of the first: we must have a regulated right of entry into the european union with, why not, country quotas in immigration. the third pillar is urgent, as you all said; we need to harmonize our right to asylum. we cannot continue with countries where it takes six months to get something and where it takes five years for others. this is not reasonable. the fourth pillar is that we need a development policy, a genuine partnership with the countries of origin and a foreign policy which contributes to the stability of the countries around us.
in writing. the european union's migration policy should not escape the scrutiny of the european parliament and civil society. democratic control is essential to ensure that the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers are respected. however, frontex is not known for the transparency of its actions. the working agreements concluded by the agency with third countries, because they are technical, are not subject to any external control. they would enable frontex, in cooperation with the police authorities of the countries concerned, to set up return and surveillance operations in non-european territorial waters. there are legitimate doubts as to whether these agreements respect the fundamental rights of migrants, in particular the right to seek asylum and the principle of non-refoulement. the commission can no longer turn a blind eye and remain inactive in the face of practices that do not respect the rights of migrants. what does it intend to do to inform the european parliament of these general agreements between frontex and third countries? does it intend to ensure that these agreements are in conformity with european law and the charter of fundamental rights?
mr president, despite the very long plea of mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, what an irony of fate and perhaps even what a schizophrenia for europe! we have just concluded the previous debate which, in general terms, reflects the need for a comprehensive approach to migration by the european union. at least that is what i understood, and our discussion now turns to summary expulsions of migrants to spain and the spanish government's attempts to make these practices legally possible. how can we succeed in the challenge of a truly coherent, protective and effective migration policy if, at the same time, there are attempts to unravel european legislation and values? more specifically, with regard to the situation in ceuta and melilla, the questions we are asking are simple and quite straightforward, and the answers must be as simple and straightforward. what is the reason for a member state not to comply with the safeguards provided for in the return directive? what is the basis for exempting oneself from the principle of non-refoulement and effective access to the asylum procedure? if europe and its member states simply apply the logic of 'everyone at home' or 'everyone for themselves', we will not be able to meet the challenges posed by migration, and i believe we will not be able to meet the collective challenges of our continent.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my report in 2011 was aimed at improving the health and safety of europeans at work with ambitious targets. that was three years ago, ladies and gentlemen. three years! and today, for 2014-2020, the commission's framework is light years away. every year, 168 000 people die in europe from work-related accidents and diseases. more than half of these are cancers and a quarter are cardiovascular diseases. it is a moral fault to turn a blind eye to suffering at work. it is an economic mistake because accidents and illnesses cost our social security systems and also our businesses. so what indicators do you intend to put in place, particularly to measure the inequality between men and women in relation to work? do you really intend to involve the social partners, which was not the case in 2006? will you give a definition of occupational accidents and diseases? your strategic framework is not up to par, and mr juncker often says that his commission is the commission of last resort. i would rather say that this is the european commission's last chance to reconcile europeans with work, simply because european citizens can no longer lose their livelihood by earning it.
mr president, health and safety at work is a pillar of the operation of a company and the well-being of employees. in the face of the proliferation of techniques and the emergence of new occupational risks, more than ever, regulatory requirements in this area must be maintained. the crisis we are going through and will continue to suffer as a result of the still fragile economic environment is dealing a severe blow to prevention and safety at work in companies, which are costly but essential. let us not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not the answer. the ultra-liberal commission has no intention of supporting health and safety at work, and attempts at harmonization will result in a clear social disadvantage. the technocracy at the behest of the multinationals dreams of a large free labour market in europe, to the detriment of the rules protecting workers. let us be on our guard, the european union is not the doctor, it is the disease.
mr president, the satisfaction shown by the ecb and all the policies when reading the stress test results at the end of last october must be qualified. indeed, 13 of the 130 largest banks still need to be recapitalised, but there is more to worry about. the financial stability board the fsb published about two weeks ago, on the sidelines of the g20, its annual list of the thirty private mega banks, including european and french banks, which would not withstand the next crisis, a crisis that is no longer a question of when it will happen but if it will happen. the fsb calls for stricter solvency standards than the current basel iii rules and recommends that these banks increase their capital to 20% of their assets. who's right? the ecb, who tells us to sleep well? or the fsb, which is raising fears of another catastrophe? the stakes are high because, when you realise these systemic risks, you will now have to enforce, as in cyprus in april 2013, the frankfurt mur the single resolution mechanism and its famous bail-in that will pump out customer deposits and savings to allow the countries concerned to bail out their own failing banks. count on us to alert our french compatriots to this financial crackdown that is being prepared.
mr president, commissioner, we must consider this lima conference as a springboard conference, since it is to prepare the great paris conference in 2015, during which we will have to obtain a binding agreement that is widely supported by our international partners. so in lima we have to work on a result for the planet, not just for the european union, because the european union only accounts for 10% of co2 emissions. this requires us to take a global approach to the climate problem. at the same time, we cannot sit back and wait for other countries to act to move forward. the european union must be at the heart of the negotiations to send a clear message. it must affirm the interest of everyone in committing themselves, without delay, to reducing co2 emissions. developing countries that fear that reducing emissions will hamper their growth have a vested interest in doing so, because they will be the first to suffer the consequences of climate change. so we should be especially attentive to their concerns. developed countries also have an interest in this because reducing co2 emissions can be done by innovating more and creating jobs. there are encouraging signs, although caution is warranted. on the international level, we see this with the agreement between china and the united states, but we must not have a mere catalogue of good intentions. i therefore trust our commissioner, mr arias cañete, to convey this message and to promote the spirit of dialogue with which the european union must go to lima. i would like to end by quoting the english writer samuel johnson, who said: "it is not strength but perseverance that makes great works". i hope that's what we get in lima.
mr president, the european union is making a worthwhile effort to combat climate change. it applies the kyoto protocol and the doha amendment. it now sets itself the target of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 and 80% by 2050. the european union will no doubt try to persuade the world at the lima conference in december to respect the objective set by the durban agreement, namely the adoption in paris at the end of 2015 of a binding treaty to limit global warming to a maximum of two degrees by the end of the century. the failure is unfortunately predictable because china and the united states, the two biggest polluters, are not willing to make the effort. i want to see proof of this in the fact that on 12 november these two countries have just concluded an agreement by which they are putting the durban process to rest. i draw two conclusions. firstly, the european union has failed in this area as in others. second, european states must prepare themselves to face the consequences of this failure, as the ipcc announced in its march 2014 report: food insecurity, water scarcity, mass displacement of populations and the risk of conflict.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate you, mr cañete, on your victory, the victory of europe, at the meeting in paris on 20 november last, bringing together the parties to the montreal protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer. this is a victory because it is your proposals, those of the european union, that have been validated to combat hydrofluorocarbons and hydrochlorocarbons, whose impact on the destruction of the ozone layer and, therefore, on climate change and warming is, it should be noted, 23 000 times greater than that of co2. a question in this connection, mr cañete: how will these proposals be implemented in practice in the coming weeks, particularly at lima? the second point, which was also raised at the berlin conference on 20 november, concerns the green climate fund: again, we need to know how the lima conference will define the terms of allocation of the fund.
mr president, commissioner, on the way to paris and lima, we have three pieces of good news. firstly, the agreement reached at the european council, which has one binding objective and two optional objectives, must be welcomed. secondly, the agreement between china and the united states should be welcomed as a joint decision to reduce their emissions. finally, the meeting on the capitalisation of the green fund should also be welcomed. however, as europeans, it seems to me that we cannot stop there and that, even if we go to lima, we must continue to mobilise here on the basis of the european parliament's positions in favour of a triple binding objective which would add to the objectives accepted by the european council those of energy efficiency and renewable energies. finally, when we discuss the 300 billion investment plan, we must also make the issue of the ecological transition the guiding principle for the mobilisation of these new investment capacities in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, today people all over europe and the world have become aware of the reality of climate change. some companies have adopted climate-friendly investment strategies. cities, municipalities and regions have committed themselves to climate plans. so we have a society that's moving forward and ready and a climate-friendly economy that's already in place. it is therefore up to you, commissioner, to take the initiative. the commission has the power of initiative to purge the carbon market, to end fossil fuel subsidies and to strengthen energy efficiency and renewable energy targets. that is how we will be less dependent on russia, that is how we will create smes in all the territories to respond to mr juncker's speech, and that is how we will create jobs. let's show that we'll live better in a society that fights climate change.
in writing. in line with my position in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i voted against the motion for a resolution which appears to be based on vague ideas and vague objectives, with some policies projected at too distant a time to be realistic. the text also provides for legally binding provisions for states and proposes the release of large amounts of money without defining precisely the objectives and means of controlling this expenditure. it is therefore unacceptable to support such enterprises which are otherwise based on ideologically marked work. finally, this draft resolution contains aberrations which are part of communist planning, where it is assumed that achieved objectives are synonymous with unambitious objectives. these policies are leaks forward that are no longer in touch with reality.
in writing. at first, there is a temptation to support this collection of statistical information by the ecb, except that this would mean that the national authorities would be deprived of the necessary control of the banking system. i therefore voted against giving these new tasks to the ecb.
in writing. this report, which is intended for the collection of statistical information by the ecb, allows confidential statistical information to be used in the exercise of the new supervisory functions. the amendment to the regulation is part of a clear shift from national banking authorities to ecb supervision, even though national banks will be able to benefit from the information received. this text, in the context of the banking union, obviously implies a strengthening of the reporting obligations and, in so far as it seeks to ensure greater transparency in the financial world, could only receive a favourable opinion in order to avoid any deviations. however, given the power of the ecb in this area in place of the national banks, i abstained.
in writing. i abstained from voting on the draft council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2533/98 concerning the collection of statistical information by the european central bank (ecb). if the text increases the powers of statistical collection, not only for the benefit of the ecb but also for the national authorities, i can only regret that the sanctions, dating from 1998, have not been increased.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 2533/98 of 23 november 1998 lays down the procedures governing the collection of statistical information by the ecb from banking and similar institutions in the union. the purpose of the collection of statistical information is to enable the compilation of macroeconomic data which are essential for the ecb's monetary policy. the 1998 amendment to the regulation allows the ecb to use confidential statistical information for the performance of its new supervisory functions. while we can welcome the strengthening of transparency requirements for banks in principle, we cannot support this for the benefit of the ecb, whose legitimacy in monetary governance we question. that is why i abstained on this vote.
in writing. the new role of the european central bank in the supervision of credit institutions is a significant step forward in the establishment of the banking union. in order to ensure the highest possible efficiency and coordination of its supervisory tasks, the ecb needs to have confidential statistical data on the bodies under its supervision. this report makes it possible to adapt the current legislation on the ecb's prerogatives in relation to the use of confidential statistical data to its new supervisory function. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. during the previous mandate, i contributed, together with my colleagues, to the reform of the banking and financial system, whose crisis has hit european citizens hard. today, with the vote in favour of this text, i am continuing this momentum. the amendment to the regulation on the collection of statistical information by the european central bank (ecb) will enable the ecb to fulfil, with the necessary means, its new supervisory functions under the single supervisory mechanism.
in writing. while the requirement of transparency is essential to the soundness of the banking sector, the proposed report does not increase the amount of sanctions provided for in the previous regulation in the event of fraud in the transmission of data, even though the balance sheets of the institutions concerned are large. i therefore decided to abstain on this incomplete text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr roberto gualtieri, on the draft regulation on the collection of statistics by the european central bank. the aim of the text is to update the powers of the european central bank, whose scope of action has been extended to strengthen the supervision of credit institutions. to this end, the central bank may require the transmission of statistics, in compliance with the principle of proportionality, in order to adapt the type and extent of possible sanctions. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report to amend the regulation on the collection of statistical information by the european central bank. this amendment is intended to take account of the new supervisory tasks of the european central bank and to allow the transmission and use of the statistical information collected by the european system of central banks between its members and the competent authorities. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. this text was not very far-reaching and had few consequences: the ecb increases its powers regarding the collection of statistics, which it can do under the single supervisory mechanism, but forces banks to submit to more transparency, which is positive. we chose to abstain.
in writing. - following the adoption of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm regulation), the aim here is to amend regulation (ec) no 2533/98 in order to take account of the ecb's new tasks in the field of the prudential supervision of credit institutions. the recommendation submitted by the european central bank (ecb) aims to give it access to confidential statistical information. this is to enable the identification of the reporting agent for the performance of its surveillance functions and to allow the transmission of this data to the european stability mechanism (esm). the report by parliament endorses these recommendations. it specifies a few points such as the obligation to take the necessary regulatory, administrative, technical and organisational measures to ensure the physical and logical protection of the confidential statistical information concerned. however, technically speaking, this is a transfer of sovereignty allowing the ecb to obtain statistics before the national central banks. as i am opposed to the independent power of the central bank, i vote against.
in writing. - the new supervisory tasks entrusted to the ecb in the framework of the banking union logically imply a strengthening of the obligations to report statistical data provided by credit institutions. in so far as this text aims to increase the transparency, even partially, of financial actors who prosper the more they are in secrecy, it could be supported. however, even if the national central banks also benefit from the information received, this text is part of the logic of a divestment of the national authorities of banking supervision tasks, which should be firmly opposed. the abstention is therefore justified in the present case.
in writing. the procedures governing the collection of statistical information by the ecb and by banking or similar institutions in the european union are laid down in regulation (ec) no 2533/98 of 23 november 1998. the collection of statistical information by the european central bank enables the collection and analysis of macroeconomic data. the latter are therefore used for the adjustments of the monetary policy decided by the ecb. however, the proposed amendment to the regulation here grants the ecb increased supervisory powers with access to confidential statistical information. while we can accept in principle that greater transparency is necessary for the proper functioning of banking institutions in general, we believe that this should not be done to the benefit of the european central bank, whose guidelines on monetary governance and ultra-liberal dogmatism we reject. that's why i abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in the same vein as the vote on the swinburne report, the ecb should be given the appropriate instruments to carry out the new tasks entrusted to it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which strengthens and clarifies the ecb's powers to impose sanctions. the absence of credible sanctions has encouraged abusive behaviour in banking, and this text helps to set up a new system of supervision and control.
in writing. this report is technical in nature and is intended to enable the european central bank to collect and store statistical information in order to avoid the multiplication of requests for information from the ecb. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. it is still desirable to subject banks to transparency obligations, which is the aim of this measure. but what good is transparency if it is to the benefit of the ecb, which cares not the slightest for financing a real reindustrialisation of europe? i refuse to allow this institution to increase its power of nuisance, but i am aware that banks must be subject to greater transparency obligations, so i abstain.
in writing. i am voting in favour of a regulation to take account of the evolution of the prerogatives conferred on the european central bank. the supervisory authority must be able to fulfil its role as a prudential supervisor. it must therefore be possible to collect statistical information, while respecting the principle of proportionality.
in writing. regulation 2532/98 of 23 november 1998 gave the ecb the power to impose sanctions on banks or similar institutions which failed to comply with an obligation arising from a european law or ecb decision (e.g. the constitution of legal reserves). these penalties were limited to €500k and €10k per day of stress, which is not deterrent given the balance sheets of the banks. it was therefore obvious that the sanctions should be increased, in proportion to turnover and not capped in absolute terms. this is what the text does, which is in the right direction, namely to strengthen the obligations imposed on banks. however, unusually, this text is part of a supranational logic which subjects the decisions of the member states to the ecb's green light and, therefore, risks seriously hampering our banking and monetary sovereignty. that's why i abstained.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to entrust the ecb with tasks relating to policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions and, in particular, to sanctions. thus, after the introduction of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the large banks (approximately 130) should be directly supervised, 13 of which still need to be stabilised. the financial stability board (fsb) has published its annual list of 30 private banks that would not withstand the next crisis. it thus requires these banks to have capital in excess of 20% of assets and to meet solvency standards that are stricter than those of basel iii. in addition, national banks will also be subject to ecb supervision to initiate a sanction procedure, losing even more powers to frankfurt. i therefore abstained on this vote, considering nevertheless the need for supervision of the large european banks.
in writing. i abstained from voting on the draft council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2532/98 concerning the powers of the european central bank with regard to sanctions. the strengthening of prudential standards and the sanctions against credit institutions which fail to comply with them is consistent with the implementation of this ecb's mission. however, i condemn the supranational logic which governs the economy of the text. thus, national authorities must obtain the ecb's approval to initiate a sanction procedure.
in writing. - the ecb has been given the power to impose sanctions on credit institutions for breaches of eu law or its own decisions. the eu resolution raises the amount of the penalties from a maximum of eur 500 000 to twice the profit made or 10% of annual turnover. in addition, national central banks lose the possibility of initiating proceedings on their own initiative, which was possible when the infringement was committed in their jurisdiction. the national authorities will now be given the green light by the ecb to initiate a sanction procedure, thus demonstrating the supranational logic of the technocrats in brussels and frankfurt. i abstained on this vote in order to show my desire to strengthen the power of control over the banks and to reject the technocratic and supranational leap forward.
in writing. the european central bank has recently started its new role as the supervisor of credit institutions. this function is crucial to regain investor confidence in the european market. its supervisory role is separate from its monetary policy prerogatives. the ecb therefore needs a new mandate to be able to sanction bodies under its supervision. when credit institutions do not meet the various criteria developed by the european legislator, the ecb has to act. we have put in place mechanisms to prevent citizens from being in a crisis situation similar to that of 2008. as a supervisor, the ecb is now in a position to ensure compliance with these mechanisms. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the regulation on the sanctions powers of the european central bank (ecb), adopted in 1998, needs to be amended. in the wake of the banking and financial crisis, the european union has undertaken a series of ambitious reforms. in this context, we have been obliged to entrust the ecb with new tasks, particularly in the context of prudential supervision. it is to take account of these changes that an amendment to the regulation is proposed. because it will help to build a more coherent and integrated regulatory environment, i support the adoption of this text.
in writing. the ecb sanction procedure defined in the report removes the power of national central banks to initiate a sanction procedure against a banking institution. while the strengthening of sanctions is necessary and is partly proposed in the report, the reduction of the sovereignty of national institutions is not acceptable. in view of these major imperfections, i abstained in this vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague kay swinburne on the draft regulation on the powers of the european central bank in the field of sanctions. the aim of the text is to update the powers of the european central bank, whose scope of action has been extended to strengthen the supervision of credit institutions.
in writing. i supported the report on the draft regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2532/98 concerning the powers of the european central bank with regard to sanctions, with a view to establishing a coherent regime for all administrative sanctions imposed by the european central bank in connection with the performance of its supervisory tasks. the european central bank recommends mainly a redefinition of some general principles applicable to administrative sanctions as well as a review of the sanctions regime. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. we have decided to abstain on this vote because the text does not propose any major developments or significant progress. the decision to initiate sanctioning procedures following a breach or non-compliance with european legislation or decisions is, of course, still the ecb's. but the text also suggests increasing sanctions on member states, an uncertain decision that could have serious consequences for the economies of member states in this period of crisis.
in writing. - this report is part of the banking union and the single rescue mechanism which entered into force on 4 november 2013. the report aims to clarify and strengthen the ecb's powers. the aim is to give it the means to impose administrative and financial sanctions on financial market players and banks. the sanctions, which could previously be delayed indefinitely, will thus take effect after a maximum of three years. the limitation periods are amended. the revenue from the penalties shall be at the disposal of the ecb. this strengthens the ecb's independence and powers vis-à-vis national banks. the ecb will no longer be able to sanction banks that it will supervise. the supervisory criteria in the name of which these sanctions will be taken remain geared to the development of financial competition, far from any objective of financialisation of the economy. as i am opposed to the independence of the ecb, whose objectives are contrary to the interests of the european people, i am voting against this text.
in writing. - regulation 2532/98 of 23 november 1998 gave the ecb the power to impose sanctions on banks or similar institutions which failed to comply with an obligation arising from a european law or a decision of the ecb (e.g. the constitution of legal reserves). these penalties were limited to €500k and €10k per day of stress, which is not deterrent given the balance sheets of the banks. it was therefore obvious that the sanctions should be increased, in proportion to turnover and not capped in absolute terms. this is what the text does, which is in the right direction, namely to strengthen the obligations imposed on banks. however, it is noted that the proceeds of the fines remain in the ecb's budget, which makes the ecb directly concerned by its sanctions policy and is not in accordance with the principle of universality. secondly, the national authorities lose the possibility of initiating sanctioning procedures on their own initiative. this is only one consequence of the development of economic and monetary union, but it is a further loss of sovereignty which must be denounced. in the end, the abstention was justified by the fact that the text was being neutralised.
in writing. i abstained on this vote. the european central bank (ecb) has been granted enhanced sanctioning power against credit institutions in cases of breaches of eu law or its own decisions. the amount of these penalties is therefore revised up sharply, from a maximum of €500,000 to twice the profit made or 10% of the annual turnover. in addition, it is now impossible for national central banks to initiate proceedings on their own initiative, even if the infringement was committed in their own jurisdiction. we will now have to wait obediently for the ecb's green light for any sanction procedure. the supranational ambitions of the technocrats in brussels and frankfurt are clearly stated here. however, there is no denying the need to strengthen the power of control over the entire banking system.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the global financial crisis has shown the limits of financial regulation in europe. among the measures decided to strengthen our legislation, the prudential supervision of credit institutions was voted in 2013. in line with this extension of competence, it is essential to strengthen the ecb's sanctioning power in this area for the new legislation to be effective.
in writing. this report gives the european central bank more powers to sanction banks that do not comply with eu law, and to publish the sanctions imposed. although the report could have had some merit, the text significantly limits transparency with regard to sanctions on banks as soon as there is a legal remedy, making the text of little use. so i refrained.
in writing. the supranational logic which prevails in this report prevents me from supporting it. sanctioning banks that circumvent or violate the law is obviously a good thing but it is not the european central bank's job to do that. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. needless to say, the financial and sovereign debt crises have demonstrated the need for deeper and more centralised supervisory control, with the european central bank playing a major role. to this end, it requires greater flexibility in the application of sanctions. in particular, it must act in such a way as not to cause panic on the financial markets. i am therefore in favour of such prerogatives.
in writing. i voted against this text, which once again reveals the inconsistency of european policy: it imposes very strict environmental standards on our companies and at the same time refuses to protect them from competitors who are not subject to the same regulations. more fundamentally, instead of encouraging an increased movement of goods and people, which generates ever more greenhouse gas emissions, the european union should consider the need to relocate the economy.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the preparation of the un climate change conference in lima, which raises the natural question of sustainable development and the need to protect the natural environment, does not provide credible solutions to the environmental problem. the text and amendments in this proposal, which are based on the work of the ipcc (whose independence can be questioned), reveal flaws in the substance. the environmental objectives, especially in terms of timing, are very vague, the financing of climate policies is poorly defined (green fund), and some parts do not fall under environmental policy at all but rather external demands such as in point 45 on 'approaches that respect equality of people'. it is clear that the mere demand for numerical results will in no way solve the ecological requirements of the future, because it becomes necessary to question the entire world economic system based on productivism and the search for profitability at any cost, even if the causes for the planet are neglected. in view of these factors, i have voted against this report.
in writing. the united nations framework convention on climate change - cop 20 - is being held in lima, peru from 1 to 12 december 2014. the european union needs to speak with one voice at this convention. that is why the european parliament has proposed a resolution to make a coherent statement to the rest of the world. i voted in favour of this resolution. i would like to remind you, however, that it is important to remain pragmatic in our approach to climate change. we must do a lot of work on the environment, but not at the expense of our economy. we are currently in a serious economic crisis. we cannot set environmental objectives that are too restrictive for our companies and thus make them less competitive with the rest of the world. the european environmental standards are already very high, and we must now ensure that they are working properly. we must find the right balance between competitiveness and environmental standards in order to get out of the economic crisis we are currently experiencing.
in writing. as a major player in the fight against global warming, the european union must turn its example into leadership. under the kyoto protocol, the union reduced its emissions by 19% between 1990 and 2012 while increasing its gross domestic product by more than 45%, demonstrating that environmental improvement and economic development are not contradictory. it is with this conviction that i believe it is essential to support everything that can create a positive dynamic on the road to the paris conference.
in writing. - the european parliament recalls with this resolution our ambitious objectives in the fight against climate change. the european union must speak with one voice in lima at the un climate change conference, to contribute to an international agreement at the paris conference in 2015. stakeholders at the conference need to agree on binding targets and financial means to keep temperature rise below 2°c. i am particularly pleased that the resolution recognises the certain exposure and vulnerability of the agricultural and forestry sectors to climate change. in particular, it calls on stakeholders at the conference to include in their national contributions a farmland component, consisting of appropriate common data to monitor, trace and quantifiably verify the achievement of several productivity, mitigation and climate resilience objectives. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the union must be ambitious and persuasive at the cop20 conference in lima. concrete and rapid action is needed because, as things stand, our commitments are not likely to minimise the damage of climate change. the union must play a leading role in the negotiations by speaking with one voice to weigh in against the other countries of the world. the recent agreement between the united states and china is a step in the right direction, but it is still not enough. the lima conference is to set the conditions for a binding global agreement to be concluded in paris in 2015 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. we also need to get a commitment from industrialized countries to developing countries, which contribute the least to emissions but suffer the most from them, to help them fight and adapt to climate change. finally, we must at european level set up a genuine 'environmental belt' to reconcile stimulating growth with reducing greenhouse gases. the eu budget should support green growth by promoting energy and raw material-efficient activities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it was important that parliament had a voice on climate change because the lima conference is a stepping stone conference before the paris conference in 2015. however, we must not shoot ourselves in the foot by setting ourselves far too high targets without our partners having the same ones, we must be careful about the competitiveness of european companies. the european union must be at the heart of the negotiations, it must have a strong message and it must push as hard as it can for a reduction in co2 emissions, but our representatives must not forget that this is a global problem that requires a global response and not just a european one: it is good to lead by example but we must make sure that we are followed.
in writing. in line with my position in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which appears to be based on vague ideas and vague objectives, with some policies projected too far in the future to be realistic. the text also provides for legally binding provisions for states and proposes the release of large amounts of money without defining precisely the objectives and means of controlling this expenditure. it is therefore unacceptable to support such enterprises which are otherwise based on ideologically marked work. finally, this draft resolution contains aberrations which are part of communist planning, where it is assumed that achieved objectives are synonymous with unambitious objectives. these policies are leaks forward that are out of touch with reality.
in writing. i would like to recall the contradictions of the european union's climate policy. on the one hand, the draft resolution considers that climate change represents an imminent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet. on the other hand, europe is devoted to deregulation and liberalization of international trade, which have the mechanical effect of increasing energy consumption and the flow of goods. in short, global trade is the biggest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. the lima conference is therefore doomed to failure in advance, since environmental policies, however binding, are being overridden by free trade policies. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. like the majority of my colleagues, i voted in favour of the resolution on the 20th united nations climate conference (cop 20) to be held in lima, peru, from 1 to 12 december 2014. given the seriousness of the threats posed by climate change, urgent action is needed. the text proposes binding targets for 2030, namely, among other things, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared with 1990, to increase the share of renewable energies to 30% of the energy mix, and to achieve 40% energy savings. the european parliament calls for increased funding to combat climate change, including by inviting member states to contribute to the green fund in order to raise $100 billion annually by 2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. indeed, governments around the world must assume their collective responsibility, especially towards future generations, and take appropriate action to effectively combat climate change.
in writing. should we have ambitions so high that we will achieve nothing or should we set achievable goals that can be followed by all? the lima conference must not be a repeat of the failure of copenhagen, because the future of the planet and the interests of all are at stake. lima will be an essential step as it will prepare for the major meeting in paris in 2015. that is why i believe that we must set ambitious but not excessive targets. i am concerned that by setting binding 2030 targets for greenhouse gas emissions reductions of at least 40% compared to 1990 levels, 40% in energy efficiency, in line with research on the potential for cost-effective energy savings, and for at least 30% of total final energy consumption to be generated from renewable sources, we are embarking on a path that will be difficult to sustain and that will discredit us in the eyes of our partners. moreover, does such a stance not run the risk of our companies and industries moving their activities to countries with less stringent regulations?
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the un climate change conference taking place in lima from 1 to 12 december 2014. the text underlines the need to take action in the fight against climate change by addressing the question of how to finance the fight against climate change and by indicating how different economic sectors can contribute to improving the situation. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. the vote on the 2014 un climate change conference (cop 20 in lima) comes against a favourable political backdrop following the submission of the fifth report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change at the un secretary-general's heads of state summit in september, the european climate and energy agreement of 24 october on a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 levels and the bilateral us-china climate agreement of 12 november. in order to reach a comprehensive agreement at the paris conference in december 2015 to limit the rise in global average temperatures to 2°c, it is now up to all parties to the climate convention to demonstrate their credibility by making their official contributions known by the beginning of 2015 and setting out the precise terms of their commitment. the european union must obtain strong commitments from its partners in order to guarantee a balanced international agreement that does not penalise the competitiveness of european industry.
in writing. - the european parliament could have used this resolution to strengthen europe's role in promoting a binding climate agreement. but, full of good intentions and incantations about the will to keep global warming within the 2 per cent limit by 2050, it offers no innovative measures. worse still, it is the carbon market, which has proven itself inefficient time and time again, that is the cornerstone of its policy. the fight against global warming is not a business or a competitive one. as long as the european parliament and world leaders remain locked into this vision, no fight against global warming will be possible or effective. i vote against it.
in writing. the united nations climate change conference, to be held in lima in december, will clearly not solve the serious problems of greenhouse gas emissions. the un intergovernmental panel on climate change estimates that global emissions have risen from 38 billion tonnes in 1990 to 49 billion tonnes in 2010. the ipcc also noted that these emissions should be reduced by more than 50% within a short time! the kyoto protocol's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 5% for the period 2008-2012 has already not been met because of the non-participation of the united states. the failure of this conference is therefore foreseeable, as china and the united states reached an agreement on 12 november last which clearly buried the objectives of the duban platform (a protocol following the kyoto protocol). the consequences of this predicted failure will be dramatic: water shortages, pollution, increased risk of conflict, not to mention the increase in migration flows. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. i abstained on the final vote on this resolution. i am in favour of an ambitious international climate agreement. however, this agreement must be balanced between europe and the other regions of the world. the european union cannot continue to set itself stricter environmental standards than elsewhere, because by doing so it sacrifices its companies and its employees by imposing on them an additional distortion of competition. increasing our carbon reduction targets without our partners doing the same would only encourage relocations to areas of the world where the legislation is less restrictive. this would also create additional emissions when repatriating finished products to europe. it is possible to reconcile industry and the environment.
in writing. i supported this text, which is a useful reminder of the european union's efforts to combat climate change and the importance of reaching a binding global agreement in paris in 2015. as for the mention of sea and air transport, if i fully support their contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases, it must be through the development of new, cleaner technologies and not through the reduction of flows of these modes of transport which are essential for global growth.
in writing. this text is a good basis for an ambitious eu position in terms of combating climate change and for greater environmental protection. i voted in favour of this report in order to push the european commission to adopt the most ambitious position possible at the international climate forum in lima.
in writing. while environmental protection is undoubtedly a major issue, today's motion for a resolution is not reassuring. its objectives are set for several decades, whereas the european union has proved incapable of anticipating a few years in most areas. is it a question of delegating even more powers to the eu so that it adds an ecological disaster to the economic disaster it has generated? i therefore vote against this proposal.
in writing. i am voting in favour of a resolution to allow the european union to play a full part in the lima conference on climate change. in doing so, it was necessary to adopt a common position between the european union and all the member states. it is also worth emphasising the main objective, namely reaching agreements with all international partners at the major conference in paris in 2015.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2014 united nations climate change conference, to be held in lima from 1 to 12 december. the house is therefore calling for an ambitious global agreement by 2015 and encouraging member states to move forward with their negotiations ahead of cop 21 in paris in 2015. we stress the importance of the eu's contribution to the fight against climate change and call on other states around the world to do the same, including by contributing to the green fund set up at the copenhagen conference in 2009. the special situation of developing countries (ldcs), which emit the least co2 but suffer the most from its consequences, is also taken into account, through a call for a smarter development aid policy. these provisions are in line with my vision of the role of the european union on the international stage in the face of the challenges of climate change.
in writing. the lima negotiations will take place next month and could lead in the long term to an ambitious climate agreement in paris in 2015. the european union will thus be forced to negotiate with its global partners to increase their investment in climate policy in order to contribute to environmental protection, the development of sustainable technologies and the creation of jobs. following the recent agreement between the united states and china, we appear to be on the right track to reach an agreement, but the european union will have to remain firm on its objectives during the negotiations. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which supports the forthcoming lima conference and prepares the way for the future conclusion of a global agreement in paris in 2015.
mr president, madam high representative, i thank you for your comments and i applaud your courage. the vote of a clear resolution by our parliament recognising the palestinian state would be a strong act, an act for peace and justice. israel has its own state and its security must of course be guaranteed. but what is missing today is a state for the palestinian people. the debate we have today stems from the perceived deadlock of the oslo process and therefore the need for us now to do things differently and to rely on international law, namely un security council resolution 242 of 29 november 1967, which recognises the territory of the palestinian state with its capital east jerusalem, and resolution 1860 of 8 january 2009, which confirms this. only the israeli leadership does not recognize this right, whereas contrary to what has just been said, the plo and the palestinian authority recognize and have recognized the state of israel. once palestine becomes a member of the un general assembly, it will be treated on an equal footing, from a legal point of view, in the negotiations which the european union, the united states and the arab league should accompany. we must not forget that the palestinian people are the victims of the israeli occupation of the west bank and gaza. it is also in the interest of the israeli people whose citizens' movements, women's movements, are demanding this state. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, which calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war.
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, these are always the same questions in black and white. i'm against the rockets you're talking about, but the ones that are occupied today are the palestinians. the ones whose land, water and territories are being taken away are the palestinians. the palestinians are the ones who are being targeted with the most sophisticated weapons in the world. so let us stop constantly looking for excuses to avoid advancing in the way of peace. what i am proposing is that we should take a symbolic political initiative here, together, over and above our differences, but one which would strengthen the position of the high representative, so that this state will finally be recognised. why are some states recognized and this one not? that's the question i'm asking.
mr president, madam high representative, first of all i would like to echo your opening statement and tell you what the important points are that our resolution should contain. first of all, as you said, it is a question of highlighting the important role of the european union, that is, of being a major player in the region. we must therefore make clear our willingness to recognize the state of palestine in order to contribute to the coexistence of two states: the state of palestine and the state of israel. there will also necessarily be clarifications to be made on the territorial boundaries, the settlement, the status of the gaza strip, jerusalem, the capital of both states. we must also show that we are not alone in this desire and quest for peace, we have egypt, jordan, saudi arabia, the united states, the arab league - as you have also said - with us, and we must of course ask the un security council to take up this desire and quest. why recognize the state of palestine? there are places where symbols matter more than others, and i believe that the european parliament is one of those places. our political duty is to bring about peace in the middle east and, therefore, the coexistence of these two states. in conclusion, i would simply like to recall the beautiful words of mahmoud abbas: 'there is no state too much in the middle east, but one is missing.'
mr president, in international law, a state is a population, a territory, a government and the legal recognition that sanctifies and confirms it. against the recognition of such a state for the palestinian people, a number of my distinguished colleagues have said that perhaps we could consider returning palestine to jordan. but the hashemite kingdom of jordan gave up its rights to the west bank long ago. what can be done? can we be satisfied with the status quo? i have heard a number of our colleagues say that recognition of the palestinian state will not be enough to restore peace. that's obvious, but will maintaining the status quo be enough to restore peace? i am rather surprised, because i have heard from czech and polish colleagues from countries which for a very long time were occupied by others, often in an extraordinarily painful way, and which had great difficulty in getting their independence and sovereignty recognized, but which are very hostile to the recognition of the same independence when it comes to the palestinian people. i am sure that some will object to terrorism, which is totally reprehensible, but it is clear that terrorism is fuelled by despair. i am sure that some people will object to the fact that the palestinians have not recognized israel, but as far as i know, that recognition took place in 1993 and even hamas has recently joined the government of mr mahmoud abbas. i fear, especially for israel, that it is too late. if israel doesn't negotiate now, if we don't want to negotiate with the palestinian government, we have hamas. if we don't negotiate with hamas, we'll have the jihadists.
mr president, madam high representative, i think we have to bear in mind two facts. first, for decades the conflict between israel and palestine has been a pretext for terrorism and a breeding ground for fundamentalism. second, on both sides, the victims are mostly civilians. the basis for a solution is well known - you have mentioned it: two states within the 1967 borders, jerusalem as the capital of both states and the security of israel guaranteed. today is the day to act. the windows of opportunity for a comprehensive and lasting solution are narrowing with each surge of violence, including the latest one - this attack on a synagogue - and leading to radicalization on both sides. my personal experience and contacts with the leaders of the two peoples tell me that a solution is possible on the substance and that the major problem is a problem of mutual trust or rather lack of mutual trust between the parties concerned, particularly in the implementation of a possible solution. i think that in this area the international community and europe in particular both have a role to play. the european parliament has no competence to recognize a state, but action must be taken and you must act, we are counting on you to do so. what concrete initiatives do you envisage, and in what timeframe, to take with the israeli and palestinian authorities and with the leaders of the arab states you mentioned, who i believe can be one of the keys to the solution, by guaranteeing that the commitments that will be made are respected?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on monday evening you decided to postpone the vote on a resolution recognising the palestinian state. is this serious? is there still time to hesitate when every day that passes makes the possibility of a palestinian state a little smaller? what are you afraid of? i was at the un a week ago to say how much we are aware that, on the road to peace, the recognition of palestine is the first urgent thing to be achieved. the international community is watching us and telling us how much we parliamentarians have a role to play in pushing the heads of state to reopen the dialogue. one hundred and thirty-five states, the parliaments of england, ireland, spain, sweden and, perhaps tomorrow, france are joining in. what about us? palestinians and israelis continue to need our support. let's show that we can break through the walls! the two-state solution has come too late. let us recognize in this house that there is not one state too many in the middle east, but one that is missing! let us have the courage to recognize the state of palestine! let us show that by our political will a just and lasting peace is possible!
mr president, madam high representative, first of all, thank you for your commitment, we have been waiting for this for a long time. finally, the union is beginning to tackle an important problem! you want peace and a political role for the union, so you need credibility and unity. let us be careful that this debate does not put us in the situation - which you experienced a little when you went to gaza - where we lose our credibility, where we are divided. in gaza, you saw it, you were able to enter, the palestinian government was not able to, in its own territory. we are acting in this debate as if the states or parliaments which urged the european states to take a stand had the same position. that's not true! the french parliament, the swedish parliament and the spanish parliament have different positions. the union disagrees. in spain, we do not talk about recognition and then negotiation, but rather about negotiation and then recognition. you must be careful to give strength to your action. finally, 135 states have already done so, and we have seen that this has not yet led to peace. we need to break out of the status quo, we will support you fully, but we need an initiative that, beyond recognition, is an initiative and a path to peace that take each other into account. there is a form of laziness in this somewhat hasty initiative. let us be careful that it does not divide the european parliament, the european union, and that it does not make us lose all credibility.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam vice-president, mr vice-president, 25 years ago, the world made a promise to children to do everything we could to protect them, to promote their fundamental rights, their right to live, their right to survive, their right to grow and flourish and their right to express themselves and have their voices heard. this year, as we approach the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, there is much to rejoice and progress, but also much to be alarmed and worried about. thousands of children are left behind, thousands of children are violated every day. i am not talking about what is happening elsewhere in the world, in the face of war and violence, i am talking about what is happening in europe, in the 28 member states of the union. but by agreeing to honour the obligations of the convention, the governments have committed themselves to defending and guaranteeing these rights and the vice-president, who has just left us, has made a very interesting step forward by agreeing to help us to ensure that the union itself, as the union, signs the convention. there are two problems, though. first, the issue of child custody. article 37 of the convention provides that no child shall be deprived of liberty unlawfully or arbitrarily. however, many children, minors, are being detained, remanded in custody or detained, and i am thinking in particular of migrant children. it is unacceptable that these minors are not considered to be vulnerable people in the first place. the second problem is poverty. as the unicef report points out, 6.5 million children in europe have fallen into poverty in the space of four years. in conclusion, children are our future, of course, and we all agree on this, but we must put them at the heart of our priorities and at the heart of our european project. we are counting on the commission because all our colleagues are unanimous in wanting to move in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child. however, much remains to be done. i would like to speak first of all about the right of the child to a traditional, indissoluble family, made up of a man and a woman, because it is on this right that, according to all psychological studies, the full development of the child depends. i'd like to tell you about an experience. i was recently in donbass and i noticed the particular attitude of the kiev government to the protection of children. indeed, are the right to life of the child (article 6), the right to identity (article 8), the right to education (article 28) compatible with the systematic targeting of schools with heavy weapons? are they bad kids? so, colleagues, let us celebrate the rights of the child, but let us also support those who are really seeking the rights of the child. (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
the answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, dear mrs valenciano martínez-orozco, i do not believe that the traditional family and the love of children can be opposed. rather, it is the place where this loyal and faithful love and respect, in continuity, of the child, who has a reference point, namely a father and a mother, is fully expressed.
mr president, while the united nations convention on the rights of the child, signed in new york 25 years ago, has many laudable objectives, it leaves many unresolved issues that deserve to be addressed. first, by taking precedence over the rights of the child, the right to the child, as embodied in the possible adoption by homosexual couples, endangers the rights of the child to education, development and stability. in this house we do not hear much criticism of countries which use child labour on a large scale, including the youngest, and which benefit from association agreements with the european union. but it is true that the unbridled globalism which reigns over the majority of these banks seems more concerned with making europe a platform which is indifferent to the production conditions of many associated countries. finally, we cannot talk about the rights of the child without mentioning the defence of the right to life. for 25 years, nothing has been done to prevent the acceleration of abortion and to promote a policy of defence of life.
madam president, apart from the media spectacle, there was little to be expected from this new g20 meeting, other than the confirmation of the european union's orientations, which are increasingly subject to the ideology of globalism and the interests of the united states. while some people are still holding on to the dream of a world government under american protection, others, like russia, which is far from being as isolated as you would like, are preparing for the multipolar world of tomorrow that patriots in all countries are longing for. at the g20 meeting, the australian prime minister's anti-russian ranting was no match for the collective hysteria of the european institutions. i would ask parliament to follow australia's migration policy, which is strong, clear and firm. operation sovereign borders, launched in september 2013, has helped deter would-be illegal immigrants and dry up smuggling networks that thrive on the world's poverty. if we really want to, we can also protect our borders and prevent so many unfortunates from perishing trying to join them.
madam president, commissioner, the european central bank, the oecd, the imf and now even the g20 are saying that all the economic assumptions we had over the last 20 years, which were neoliberal assumptions, are no longer working and that today we need to increase the demand for goods and services at international level. for this reason, we know that the issues of tax evasion, tax avoidance, investment and the ecological transition are top priorities. as my colleague gutiérrez prieto said earlier, the commission and the european union must now accept these new assumptions, which are good ones, and act. that means taking decisive and rapid action on the question of tax evasion and that means going much further in terms of investment than this morning's proposal, which is a first step but far from sufficient. in particular, we must target investments where they are useful for a new development model and therefore do everything we can to ensure that the ecological transition takes place in the european union so that we are the pioneers in this area and are ahead of the curve. that is why we must now make a change in economic policy, even the g20 says so. it is time we took that path.
madam president, during your hearing, commissioner, we heard you singing the praises of the digital single market, the panacea for the ills of the union. additional revenue, growth, economy, you say the digital single market would solve all the problems facing the countries of europe. i say to you that no, the single market must not be an unquestionable religious dogma and that it is not the solution to the problems of the european nations. we do not question the importance of digital development for the future and that it is an unquestionable source of wealth and development for businesses. we are also aware of the differences between countries and citizens in terms of access to and use of the internet. but building a centralized digital single market that is worshipped as a god is by no means the solution. your aim in this house, the council and the commission is - as we know - to overthrow the last remaining national protective tendencies, and all the motions for resolutions today are proof of that. this digital single market will be the last straw, the one that will bring the final blow to artificial barriers, as the imposed commissioner so well said. unless this is the last straw in the patience of the peoples and, in particular, of the french people already well filled with your stinging interventions in national affairs that do not concern you. you want to impose on the european nations, as in the case of the single market, the course to be followed in spite of the interests of the member countries. you do not listen to the people who have made it clear that they do not want you to interfere in their daily lives.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that our debate tonight will be a shock to europe so that it can emerge from its stagnation, which has made it a colony of the new digital world. google controls 90% of all the search on the internet. we have no rules to limit this hegemony. the first reform we must adopt is the one aimed at preventing discrimination and abuse of dominant positions from the outset. the second problem is the taxation of digital technology. take france, for example: in 2013, google paid only eight million euros in taxes in france for more than one billion euros in revenue. we need to find ways to ensure that companies that capture value added online also participate in taxation. i want to be clear about copyright reform. if we want to continue producing cultural content and fostering europe's cultural diversity, we must protect copyright. we also need to encourage content financing and we need to better distribute the digital dividends. finally, while it is important to combat anti-competitive practices, we must also have competitors to contend with. so let's invest in networks, research and innovation, fund digital start-ups and bring out the big champions to get europe back in the race! i am sure that the juncker plan will be essential in this respect.
mr president, this resolution provides essential elements for consumers in the digital single market. it therefore reaffirms the desire of this house to see the abolition of roaming charges as soon as possible. we really can't wait. we must also make it clear that net neutrality is a fundamental, non-negotiable principle for the equal and fair treatment of consumers. we are of course dealing with dominant digital players. as such, the separation of search engine activities from commercial activities is a genuinely interesting avenue to restore that fairness in the digital single market and to ensure consumers are treated fairly. i regret, however, that we may not have gone further. i think it is essential to remember that when it comes to fairness, we also need to establish fairness between creators and giants of the internet. that is why, when we vote tomorrow, i will support this resolution and i call on all my colleagues who are concerned about helping to create the digital single market to vote for amendment no 84.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 63 years after the ecsc came into force, the situation of the steel industry in europe is catastrophic today. this declaration by the commission is just another declaration full of good intentions and good wishes. strengthening competitiveness and promoting innovation is an interesting formula, but it will not be followed by any concrete effect and will not solve the problems affecting industry. the european steel industry employed over one million people in the early 1970s, but only 360,000 in 2014. in france, steel production in the 1980s reached 24 million tonnes; in 2013, it was only 13 million, a fall of almost 40%. the european union is playing the part of the pyromaniac fireman who tries to extinguish, with a half-full die, the fire it has itself started, that is the truth. even though analyses and studies predict that global steel demand is expected to increase by 2.3 billion tonnes by 2025, the european steel industry has collapsed. our production sites are closing one after another, leaving millions of workers stranded every year, as in my region of lorraine this week, where politicians came to see the crime scenes. the cause of this cataclysm: the ultra-liberal economic policy, the disappearance of national frontiers and the free and undistorted competition demanded by brussels. thanks to you, china and india can rub hands. how could france compete with these countries with low production costs? it is now clear that this technocratic european union, subject to the financial markets and the dogmas of the single currency, has no desire whatsoever for france to be re-industrialized.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to be fair and effective in our efforts to ensure a successful european steel industry, we must be clear about the diagnosis. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the steel industry in the union has been affected by the financial crisis, which has led to the closure of more than 42 million tonnes of capacity since 2008, representing, at a rate of 10 employees per million tonnes, 40 000 direct job losses and more than 100 000 indirect job losses and loss of subcontractors. we are not overcapacitated. of our present capacity of 170 million tonnes, we have a trade surplus of only five million. in other words, if economic activity starts up again - and i think we share the same objective - then we will become a net importer. we must therefore react quickly, because this sector, which is so structural in most european countries, is in a structural crisis more than ever, which is manifested by a chronic under-investment in equipment and in the training of employees. this is the subject of the report i shall have the honour to defend on the sustainable development of the european base metal industry, including steel. european producers must be on an equal footing with their non-european competitors, who are often subject to less ambitious social and environmental standards. but there is no question of encouraging a bottom-up approach that would involve the dismantling of our social rights or the denial of our health and climate objectives. do we need to call him back? we only have one health and one planet. we must instead initiate a virtuous circle and at this stage i see only border adjustment as a way of putting our producers back in the game while encouraging others to raise their standards. that's one of the things i'm going to try to make more credible. in any case, i am glad that this subject is of interest to my colleagues and to the commission, and i will be speaking to you very soon because it is urgent. (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, do you not think that the ultra-liberal dogma imposed by the european union and supported in france by the ump and socialist governments is the source of the collapse of the steel industry in france?
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i see that after the italian-italian debate, it is the french-french debate. i think i know that we are here in the european parliament, that the steel crisis is european and that we therefore need european measures. if you have listened to me - and apparently you have not - i am advocating an adjustment of the frontiers, precisely to prevent this sacred-sacred wild liberalism of which you speak from doing even more damage. madam, i was a steelworker not so long ago, and i was for 32 years.
in writing. this declaration by the commission on the steel industry in the union will not change the present disastrous situation and will, at most, be in addition to declarations of intent by other institutions and other bodies. the text is really just a list of wishes that will never be followed by effective and justified measures. for decades, the european steel industry has seen its steel production collapse, with production sites closing one after another, leading to massive redundancies. this is the practical result of the major structural changes in the steel industry. for example, european production of crude steel from casting has been steadily decreasing (- 13,4% between 2006 and 2011). this fall is directly linked to the fall in demand in the automotive sector and in the construction sector. in the face of direct competition from low-cost countries (china and india in the lead), 280,000 people lost their jobs in the european metal industry between 2008 and 2013. by introducing the ultra-liberal economic model and free and undistorted competition, and by abolishing national frontiers, the european union is fully responsible for the collapse of the european and french steel industry.
in writing. what a sad irony to consider today, in the face of the disaster in the steel sector, the objectives set by the eu's forefather, the coal and steel community! europe has destroyed the very foundations of the industry which it was given the task of fostering. yet the world's demand for steel in the world continues to increase. it is therefore the ultra-liberal ideology which blindly rejects all protectionism and all frontiers which alone can explain the total collapse of the steel industry. the measures proposed by the commission, like those taken at national level by president hollande, whose vacuity i was able to see in person in lorraine at florange last monday, are nothing but cautious remarks on a wooden leg put forward by those who decided on the amputation. to get back on the path to growth and jobs, we need a radical change in policy, abandoning the single currency that is holding the economy back and protecting us from unfair competition from emerging countries whose social and environmental standards are far from ours. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem.
mr president, child malnutrition is a scourge. it kills and creates irreversible damage in the child. we shall fight this scourge, of course, by taking substantive and long-term action with a good development policy. everyone has talked about water, education, agriculture, food self-sufficiency and land management, that's obvious. but if we want immediate results, if we want to save children today, we need to change the paradigm and allow development policy to take ownership of humanitarian outcomes. we know how to reduce infant mortality. this was done in the sahel as part of humanitarian actions thanks, moreover, to the support of echo: one million children treated since 2006 with 50 dollars a year. we give a child ready-made therapeutic food in the form of sachets and save him! the world bank, as you know, has largely endorsed this approach. i say to you, we must all think about it and make sure that the 11th edf takes this approach into account, learns from humanitarian practice, organises it on a large scale so that the children who suffer today in the world of malnutrition will be saved tomorrow.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you very much for this in-depth debate and for the very interesting viewpoints, for example on the role of women, the role of local farmers and, of course, the problem of land governance. there were very crucial issues in this debate. i think the acceleration of initiatives and the commitment to nutrition confirms that the commission was right to focus on nutrition in its development agenda. eu member states have shown a strong interest in the commission’s nutrition action plan, and the italian presidency is preparing council conclusions. this will increase commitment and improve coordination with member states and reaffirm the eu’s leadership in this area. last week the international conference on nutrition showed the intention of more than 170 representatives of states to eradicate malnutrition and led to the adoption of the rome declaration on nutrition. in this context i highly welcome, of course, the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on nutrition and the initiative of ms mcavan as chairwoman of the committee on development (deve). i sincerely hope that with our joint efforts we will be able to relegate under-nutrition to history, once and for all, and pave the way to sustainable development. thank you once again for this in-depth debate on this very crucial issue.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's cultural heritage is protected. christians are indeed discriminated against in pakistan, but they are not the only ones, hindus, ahmadi, sufis, shiites or even sunnis, if they advocate religious tolerance, are also discriminated against. pakistani laws make blasphemy and apostasy a crime. they restrict freedom of expression and are used for the purpose of persecution, ill-treatment and intimidation. they are being abused and must therefore be abolished and not merely revised as the resolution calls for. violence must end and those who are behind it must be brought to justice and convicted. the death penalty must be abolished and a real separation between politics and religion must be implemented. religious violence is intolerable, especially when it is used for political ends, and it is not by siding with fundamentalists who are calling for the application of sharia that civil peace will be restored to pakistan. we do not think that this resolution is up to the challenge, and that is why we will not vote for it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in november 2010 asia bibi, a pakistani christian, was sentenced to death by the authorities of her country on the grounds that she had insulted muhammad. since then, all attempts to appeal this decision have been rejected. she is currently on death row awaiting the decision of the supreme court of pakistan, her last resort to save her life. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that according to the black book of the condition of christians in the world, between 120 and 200 million christians suffer persecution every year. in other words, millions of people risk their lives every day just for the sake of believing in christ. however, once again, the arrogant ideology of human rights is the basis of this resolution, and that is why i shall refrain from supporting it. i will not support a new intervention by the european union which has only one aim: to undermine the sovereignty of states in order to achieve the geopolitical ambitions of a global power and the oligarchies that serve it. let our western governments begin to oppose the islamization of europe and the spread of islamic fundamentalism in our own societies before they give lessons to the whole world! asia bibi will not be saved by western human rights, but by a europe which embraces its christian civilization and which, by virtue of its power, offers natural protection to christians in their own country.
mr president, a lot has been said and i agree with all that my colleagues have said. with this resolution we want to send a clear message of support to asia bibi and urge the pakistani authorities to save this woman, including by repealing the blasphemy laws. this resolution includes all persecutions suffered by people who do nothing but believe in god. our parliament and the european union have a very clear responsibility to defend religious freedom, whatever the religion; i am writing to mr chauprade, but i agree with him on one point: we also have a responsibility to defend christians, because our history and our deep identity are rooted in christianity. if we do not defend the more than 150 million persecuted christians in the world, who will?
mr president, it is in the name of the universal founding values of respect for the fundamental rights of individuals, freedom of opinion, freedom of thought, freedom of conscience, freedom of worship, religious tolerance that we call on the pakistani authorities to repeal the blasphemy laws. i would remind you that the pakistani constitution itself is supposed to guarantee the rights of minorities and religious freedom, the rights of all minorities and, above all, of all religious minorities. so we really must, as the european union, demand that our pakistani partner respects his own commitments, that he respects human rights. but why hide behind our little finger? we know that christians today, in too many countries around the world, are among the most persecuted religious minorities. the case of asia bibi, this young woman, who we have to get out of the death row, is particularly moving. we must do everything we can to free asia bibi.
author. - mr president, there is no need to list the crimes of which vojislav šešelj is accused. slobodan milošević considered him the personification of primitive violence, that is to say! the historic leader of the serbian far right sees himself as the heir of the chechniks, militias that collaborated with the nazis during world war ii. he appeared before the hague tribunal, where he was sentenced to only fifteen months' imprisonment for trifles and has not yet been tried on the merits. released for health reasons, he returned to his country and resumed his hate speech. his trial has dragged on too long, his victims deserve justice. this executioner, sick or not, must be condemned, it is the best way to prevent him from undermining the reconciliation that serbia so badly needs. but this resolution, which the epp has called for, may in the end serve its purpose. he's already using it to promote himself. i do not disagree on the substance, but i am afraid that this resolution will be ineffective or even counterproductive. i therefore ask once again for a better selection of our emergencies so that they can really serve the defence of human rights everywhere in the world.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the situation of iraqi women in the so-called 'islamic state' is tragic. we must therefore take strong action by parliament, because there is a serious violation of human rights. women are subjected to forced marriage and rape - it has been said - as well as enslavement and sale in mosul markets at a fixed price. if they have clear eyes, they cost more, if they are under fifteen, they cost even more. today, for example, more than 6,500 yazidi women are missing. initially, isis members targeted women from religious minorities. now it's all women, regardless of denomination. women are always the first victims of war, they are a bargaining chip. the european parliament is sending a strong message of condemnation with this resolution. this resolution will be sent to all national parliaments, the council, the european commission, the relevant national ministries and the high representative. let me conclude with a few words on the situation in europe... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, iraq is at the heart of our discussions today, but it is first and foremost the responsibility of many of you and your friends. twenty-five years ago, george bush, in the name of oil, made the fatal decision to engage in unnecessary hostilities against a secular country, united in spite of its communal and confessional diversity. iraq, a country with a multi-millennial civilization, was built on an ideology of economic and social development shared by the majority of the people and was sliding down the path of utter chaos. as a result, it has become the prey of the worst totalitarian ideology ever encountered. many of those sitting here today were involved in the scandalous 2003 operation, this time led by the bush heir. today you hide behind a condemnation which unfortunately resembles the islamic state established in iraq and syria thanks to an american policy of open, implicit or derivative support and turkish collusion. you still want to support groups that carry islamist ideology in syria, libya and elsewhere... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, this resolution is theoretically about the kidnapping and mistreatment of women in iraq. there is much to be said for the abuse women are subjected to - the word is weak - and not only by daesh, even though this terrorist group that claims to be a state has reached horrors: rape, sexual mutilation, forced marriage, slavery and even, indeed, selling women at prices varying according to religion. christian and yazidi women are the first victims of this barbarity. the younger the women, the more expensive they are. but other resolutions give little attention to the general situation in iraq, and, as a bonus, the intervention of the united states is welcomed, even though it has at least some responsibility for the disorganization of that country. i repeat, the way in which human rights emergencies are dealt with in this house is increasingly incomprehensible and ineffective. i would like to ask you to read this resolution carefully, because you will not find in it all that you have just said in essence. iraqi women... (president cuts off speaker's microphone)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eurosceptics and the far right who tabled the motion of censure against jean-claude juncker are in fact following exactly the same logic as the one they claim to be fighting. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. like others, jean-claude juncker has indeed been the architect of a scandalous system in which tax havens are organized within the union itself, which consist in diverting revenue for the sole benefit of a few shareholders or a few large groups and financial institutions. this then justifies austerity policies, the reduction of social programmes in the poorest countries and the refusal of investments in the general interest. but we must refuse to shake hands with nationalism on the one hand and injustice on the other. so, in fact, abstention is required. the system in place in luxembourg and elsewhere, which may appear to some to be legal, is in fact illegitimate and unfair. we will only get out of this by having more europe and less competition to defend the general european interest.
mr president, i naturally voted for the motion of censure against mr juncker, not out of personal animosity towards him, but for all the reasons which justify any distrust of him. i would just like to give you an overview of mr juncker's rhetoric. in the debate on tax evasion which he encouraged in luxembourg, i introduced him as minister for the economy and finance and also recalled that he had been forced to resign in connection with a scandal which he may not have been personally responsible for, that of the luxembourg secret services. mr juncker rejected both of these claims, saying to me: 'i have never been in charge of the economy' - a play on words - 'and i have never resigned, you had better inform yourself before you speak'. so i looked into it and i see that mr juncker has been minister for labour, employment, treasury and finance for 20 years, which is still a matter of economics, and that he has been prime minister for 18 years. as for his resignation, after the scandal he was forced to call early elections and was succeeded by mr xavier bettel. i suppose he must have submitted his resignation to the grand duke in the meantime.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion of censure against the european commission. mr juncker, president of the commission, is directly involved today in the 'luxleaks' case. during mr juncker's presidency from 1995 to 2013, luxembourg became a tax haven. more than 300 multinational corporations have thus been able to evade the taxation of wealth-producing countries through tax treaties, techniques based on artificial location of patents, distorted transfer prices between subsidiaries, and other financial artifices. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the internal market, which will be presented to the european parliament and the council in the autumn. i therefore believe that it is imperative to act and overthrow the commission and mr juncker by voting for the motion of censure.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion of censure, which i was a co-signer of. the overwhelming responsibility of jean-claude juncker in the so-called "luxleaks" affair should have led the president of the european commission to resign. since he didn't have the courage, we suggested to our colleagues that we force him to do it. mr juncker, the president of an institution whose legitimacy we also question, now claims to be fighting tax evasion, when he has been cleverly encouraging it for years to the benefit of luxembourg and multinationals - and to the detriment of the other member states, starting with france.
in writing. the luxleaks case showed that powerful corporate tax avoidance schemes, such as the so-called tax ruling practice, involve the creation of a subsidiary or a holding company (a company that itself is a shareholder of other companies) in luxembourg. generally, it is a simple office with few or no employees. then tax arrangements are made, ranging from simple vat rate rebates to more complicated arrangements such as the "patent niche". in some cases, the company avoids tax altogether, as is the case, for example, with ikea. all this to enable 340 multinational companies to avoid paying a large part of their taxes, particularly in france and europe. during this period of research (2002-2010), mr juncker was prime minister of luxembourg. today, mr juncker is president of the european commission, backed by a large left-right-center-environment coalition, and it is not acceptable that a person responsible for the establishment of this system should be kept in that position. that is why i have signed this motion of censure, and of course i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. the hearings of the commissioners-designate could only cause concern. some members of the commission of dubious competence or probity owe their portfolios only to small arrangements between socialists and conservatives. mr juncker said he was not a "friend of multinationals", when he was the head of a government whose administration encouraged at least tax optimisation, partly to the detriment of the french taxpayer. some observers even point out that luxembourg may be just one link in a chain of tax evasion on a larger scale. the practices covered up by the luxembourg government led by mr juncker are at least ethically reprehensible. he dares to argue their legality. but where's the morality? i therefore vote in favour of the motion of censure on the european commission.
in writing. an overwhelming majority of meps voted against the motion of censure tabled against the new european commission by the europe-haters in this house. i voted against this text. the eurosceptics are stalling the legislative work. their attempt, however, was counterproductive. the commission of jean-claude juncker has received greater support than when it was inaugurated.
in writing. - i voted for this motion of censure on the european commission because i consider it unacceptable that a body which is not democratically elected can still afford to remain above the laws it imposes on the citizens of the eu member states. mr junker, because he is suspected of having encouraged tax evasion, is now involved in this case and therefore cannot legitimately remain at the head of an institution which continues to tell citizens 'do as i say, not as i do'. i also welcome this initiative which has brought together all the patriots of this parliament, beyond political differences.
in writing. - the president of the european commission, mr jean-claude juncker, and the newly constituted college of commissioners were elected on a clear programme. they must be in a position to work in the best way possible to meet the expectations of european citizens affected by the crisis. in this context, mr juncker has just presented an investment plan for europe, which will eventually mobilise eur 315 billion to finance strategic growth projects, create jobs and adapt our economies to the challenges of the 21st century. less than a month ago, i had given my support to the college of commissioners on this basis. that support remains intact. i therefore voted against this motion of censure.
in writing. i rejected the motion of censure on the european commission put forward by the efdd group, chaired by nigel farage, and supported by non-attached members. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the european commission has launched an investigation into tax practices in several countries, including luxembourg. let's wait for the results of the investigation.
in writing. at a time when we are going through an economic and political crisis, when we need, more than ever, to be in order, to launch the necessary reforms and to have an innovative european commission, the populist and eurosceptic meps in the european parliament have found nothing better than to try to destabilise the newly elected european commission with a motion of censure for purely political reasons and for the sake of media visibility. i therefore voted against this motion of censure.
in writing. the compromise of the commission president in luxembourg's fiscal opacity is more than enough to justify this motion of censure which will bring relief to the peoples of europe. it is scandalous that some countries do not contribute to the effort imposed on the member states in the same way as others. this inequality is unfair and indecent. the european union is a soviet heir where, as george orwell wrote, 'all men are equal, but some are more equal than others'. how can we trust mr juncker as head of the european union when he is not showing any transparency about his political record in luxembourg? it is also the question of mr moscovici's record that supports this motion of censure. the former french minister was part of the ruin of my homeland, france, and is now fleeing to brussels to escape the wrath of my countrymen. we say to this commission, you cannot escape the duty of accountability to the people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion of censure tabled in the wake of the luxembourg leaks scandal, a vast system of tax evasion set up by luxembourg for its own benefit and that of multinationals, to the detriment of european states, including france. mr junker, prime minister of luxembourg from 1995 to 2013, could not have been unaware of the existence of this unfair and unjust system. it is unthinkable that the european union can effectively fight tax evasion with mr junker as president of the commission. the motion also sought to make each member aware of his responsibilities by identifying those who are actually opposed to dubious financial and tax practices and those who are merely in the position. mission accomplished.
in writing. i voted against this motion of censure tabled by a group of elected representatives who are united by nothing but their hatred of the european project. this was a ploy designed to give publicity to europe-haters of all stripes and to waste valuable time which could be spent on much more important issues such as employment and growth. if the aim of these elected representatives is really to combat tax evasion, this strategy is completely fruitless. we must advocate much more cooperation for an automatic exchange of information on tax rulings and demand tax harmonization rather than the tax competition that exists today. but it is clear that this is certainly not the intention of the authors of this motion. this motion of censure is therefore pointless.
in writing. in my view, this motion of censure is the worst kind of demagogy. to bring up old issues when president juncker has already explained them and has committed himself to combating tax evasion, for which we are waiting for concrete proposals, is to undermine the functioning of europe and to make a political coup to satisfy its electorate. it is also harmful to european citizens who are tired of the gutter politics and lack vision for europe and for their country. today, the priority is employment, purchasing power, restoring confidence to citizens and businesses, and proposing a future for the continent and for france. so let's get to work and not waste any more time because the rest of the world isn't waiting for us. you can count on my determination to judge the commission on its acts and actions, but do not expect me to take part in these little manipulations which do not do honour to those who practise them.
in writing. - why i did not take part in the vote on the motion of censure. the european situation is extremely critical. europe is losing ground in people's hearts. in particular, people's distrust of government policies is fuelling the rise of anti-european, often national-populist and xenophobic political forces. at the same time, the lack of courage of european leaders, the democratic deficit in our institutions and liberal policies are discrediting the european construction. a new europe has to be born. environmentalists have always fought for tax harmonization, far from the scandalous practices revealed by luxleaks. the fight against tax fraud and pseudo-optimisation is a non-negotiable priority. the motion of censure tabled today, which was tabled by anti-european forces, far from advancing europe, had a different aim than the one it claimed to pursue. it was a manoeuvre to show the strength of the extremes in parliament. because it was not desirable to mix my voice with that of the outspoken anti-europeans, or to give jean-claude juncker a discharge and seemingly absolve him of his past behaviour, i refused to take part in a vote that was all a trap.
in writing. i voted against the motion of censure against the european commission chaired by jean-claude juncker. the pretext used is misleading in that it establishes a liability link between luxembourg's tax practices, which are legal and have their equivalent in many other member states, and jean-claude juncker's past national liabilities, whereas he had no direct control over this practice. the far-right and far-left groups also fail to mention that jean-claude juncker has been the originator of initiatives in the past in favour of tax harmonisation and its regulation. the assurances given by jean-claude juncker that he was not involved in the european investigation that was launched and his commitment to european tax harmonisation, the absence of which is the real cause of tax engineering practices, convinced me to maintain the trust i had given him in the past. the motion of censure was rejected by a majority of 461 votes against, 101 votes for and 88 abstentions. i welcome the fact that jean-claude juncker will continue to lead the european commission.
in writing. the motion of no confidence tabled by the populists in the european parliament was a wet firecracker. it was widely rejected by serious meps from all political groups. the populists would do better to finally address the fundamental questions: employment, growth, immigration in europe. mr farage and mrs le pen wanted us to talk about them. it's all right. but what energy and time spent organizing a vulgar political coup.
in writing. the european commission has had to deal with a first motion of censure concocted by a conglomerate of meps, including the troops of mrs le pen and those of the british eurosceptic mp, nigel farage. but the european parliament felt that it was not possible to let its behaviour be dictated by people with demagogic and populist intentions, and rejected this motion of censure by a large majority. the vote underlined the confidence of the vast majority of meps in the newly installed european commission, which we believe has the political courage to 'wake up europe', to revive growth and employment, and to pull europe out of its atony.
in writing. i have decided not to take part in the vote on the motion of censure because i refuse to associate myself with an initiative of the extreme right that pollutes the debate. the question of competition and tax fraud depriving the states of considerable resources, at a time when the european union is demanding ever greater budgetary efforts from them, is fundamental for the future of the welfare state. we have made clear proposals to combat tax evasion, tax harmonization and tax systems that take money where it belongs: to capital, to speculation, not to work. the juncker commission was to be censured along with the socialists and greens on the basis of a joint project to re-found the european project on the basis of social and ecological progress. if they do not support our proposal, i support the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into tax fraud. not on the initiative of small groups who have always fought social and human progress, who defend established interests, who have never proposed anything on these issues, who refuse tax harmonization and are agitating, confirming that they are part of the problem rather than the solution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion of censure because i consider that jean-claude juncker is not fit to be president of the european commission. as prime minister of luxembourg, he organized tax evasion for 340 multinational companies, amounting to several hundred billion euros. this shortfall weighs heavily on national budgets and on the european peoples who are now being squeezed into austerity. with cynicism, juncker, now president of the commission, wants to make them pay for his own abuses! voting to overthrow him is not just a political decision; it's a moral duty. the french people will remember that the socialist and ump members failed in this duty. to support such a man is to choose plutocracy over democracy.
in writing. - my group was the first to try to censure the juncker commission by attempting to table a motion at the last part-session. the greens and the ps refused to sign our motion, so we were unable to table it in the house, leaving the far right with every latitude to take this issue in their hands. the far right has thus been able to seize the will to censor. i refuse to want to bring down juncker by the right, to mix my vote with those on the far right who are opposed in france to taxation and tax harmonization in europe. but i also denounce the refusal of the european socialist party and the greens to act, which condemns us to abstain.
in writing. - just days after taking office, european commission president jean-claude juncker is at the centre of the luxleaks scandal, documents that reveal the deliberate tax dumping policy he pursued for 18 years as luxembourg's prime minister. the credibility of the commission as a whole is thus called into question, whereas its declared objectives are transparency and the fight against tax evasion, the reduction of member states' deficits or the fight against unfair competition. on the initiative of the euro-realist members a motion of censure was tabled. i voted in favour of this motion, which received 101 votes in favour but was not adopted. the epp and s&d members have once again supported mr juncker, thereby endorsing his practices and double standards in the face of the logic of money. in this they are faithful to the hypocritical speeches they have been making in france for decades, indignant at the consequences of unbridled free movement and unbridled competition, after having been the sole instigators and therefore bearing full responsibility for it.
in writing. the european union is governed by a grand coalition of the right, the left and their liberal and green allies. every decision is therefore the result of consensus and compromise, to the detriment of the people and of course to the benefit of the multinationals and high finance. mr juncker, president of the commission, is also a former leader of luxembourg, which has introduced a system facilitating tax evasion (some 300 companies have been able to conclude an agreement with that state to this effect). france has therefore suffered a real leakage of its tax revenue, a shortfall which has of course been filled by a greater tax burden on french households and the middle classes. this tax avoidance technique was introduced during the juncker era. today the commission is telling us that it wants to carry out a thorough investigation into luxembourg's practices (luxleaks). can she be impartial? or will the keys to the henhouse be entrusted to the fox? i reject this europe of the magouille and arrangements and have voted for this motion of censure.
in writing. i voted against the motion of censure against the european commission. the college of commissioners was inaugurated less than a month ago, after a long process of appointment and hearing which was conducted in a transparent manner and resulted in a consensus. we need the new european commission to get to work quickly to get europe out of the crisis. this motion, signed mainly by mr farage's group and the national front, proves once again that their action in the european parliament only slows down the decision-making process and that they are far from the concerns of the european citizens.
in writing. i voted against this motion of censure, which had no other aim than to block the european union. we need the new juncker commission to work on improving the daily lives of european citizens. to censure the commission would be to block all the reforms we need to get growth back on track; the vote on the motion of censure was therefore against the peoples.
in writing. the audacity of some political groups no longer surprises me. the european commission has just announced that they are already planning to dissolve it. this motion of censure was nothing more than a communication stunt. i therefore vote against this motion, as does an overwhelming majority, which ironically reinforces the commission's legitimacy, which a fringe of europeans thought they could undermine.
in writing. i voted against the motion of censure against the new european commission of jean-claude juncker. the new commission took office on 1 november and jean-claude juncker has already come to present his plan to mobilise €315 billion to fight unemployment, create jobs and boost growth in europe. i maintain my support for the juncker commission and would like to stress that the vote on this motion of censure has increased the confidence of the european parliament in the commission, with more votes than in the october part-session (the parliament's vote of approval of the commission).
in writing. i voted to censure this commission because it is illegitimate in the government of the french people. the commission is also headed by mr juncker, a man who has been for so long the head of europe's largest tax haven. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the rejection of the report by the ep condemns these institutions, which have lost all sense of the common good, dignity and honour, to the abyss into which the peoples of europe and the french people in particular will soon throw them.
in writing. i abstained on the european commission's motion of censure, tabled by the european far right and the british far right. the responsibility of the former luxembourg finance minister and former prime minister, now president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, for institutionalized tax fraud, organized under the banner of 'tax optimisation' and erected as an economic engine for his country, is beyond doubt in my view. my group, the european united left/nordic green left, has therefore organised a plenary action. neither juncker nor le pen are involved. however, voting in favour of such a resolution is unacceptable, because i am not asking for my vote to be mixed with that of the extreme right, for reasons of form and substance, but for real measures to combat tax evasion and tax evasion as well as tax havens, for a real taxation of financial transactions, finally!
in writing. this single resolution board is supposed to be operational as of 1 january 2015, but i am opposed to this proposal to leave the commission free to decide on the provisional system of contributions for the administrative expenditure of the single resolution board during the transitional period. a negative vote was therefore required.
in writing. since the outbreak of the financial crisis in 2008, the european commission has pursued numerous initiatives to save the single currency, the euro. with the deepening of the euro area debt crisis and the interdependence of the euro area countries, the european commission and the european institutions, in the framework of the banking union, agreed to establish a single supervisory mechanism (ssm) and a single resolution mechanism (srm) for banks. the banking union applies to euro area countries, but countries outside the euro area may also participate. the single resolution board has broad powers to analyse and define the approach to be adopted for the resolution of a bank, including the instruments to be used and the intervention of the european resolution fund. we are therefore asked here not to object to the provisional system of advance payments on contributions to cover these expenditure of the cru over the transitional period and thus to support this system, which is why i voted against this recommendation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european commission's recommendation for a delegated act on the provisional system of advances on contributions from the single resolution board. that delegated act establishes the funds allocated to the single resolution board to cover its administrative expenses. the recommendation supports the establishment of these funds. the recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i opposed the single resolution mechanism which establishes the troika as the ultimate saviour of the european banking sector. i therefore oppose the introduction of provisional financing for the single resolution board (srb) which is organising it. i vote against it.
in writing. since the financial, economic and banking crisis of 2008, the commission has been doing everything it can to save the single currency. the dramatic increase in the debt of the member states in the euro area and the devastating domino effect observed in the countries sharing the euro led the commission and the european institutions to put in place control tools to maintain the banking union. this is the case of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) and the single resolution mechanism (srm). the single resolution board has significant powers, such as deciding which instrument to use and how much of the european resolution fund to grant to a bank. we are here asked to accept the provisional system of contributions to cover the expenses of the cru. the rescue of the euro has led to austerity plans and the impoverishment of the european people, so i voted against it.
in writing. the functioning of the single resolution board undoubtedly requires the allocation of funds. i therefore vote in favour of this grant.
in writing. i abstained on this text because it does not raise the fundamental problem of the lack of transparency in the management of these funds allocated by the european union, in particular because their management has been transferred from the state to the regions.
in writing. even though the european union intends to launch a vast investment plan of over eur 315 billion and the cohesion policy has over eur 350 billion by 2020, the european union is facing a very serious problem of unpaid debts (eur 23 billion for the period 2007-2013 and probably close to eur 28 billion by the end of 2014). it is absolutely inconceivable that brussels should be ordering member states to be more rigorous and more budgetary disciplined when these arrears are growing year by year. moreover, it is becoming urgent that the european union more rigorously controls its expenditure on cohesion policy, which has an 'error rate' of 6.9%, as the european court of auditors itself admitted in its 2013 report. that is why i abstained on this report, in order to avoid spoiling the operational programmes with a further risk of possible fraud.
in writing. due to delays in the validation of the operational programmes for the period 2014-2020, a necessary step to enable the financing of projects in our territories by the structural funds, this resolution calls on the european commission and the member states to take, with the support of the european parliament, all the necessary measures to allow the disbursement of the pre-financing foreseen for 2014. in france, 84 french programmes are financed under the european structural and investment funds (erdf, esf, eafrd and emff). it is therefore essential for project promoters, public authorities, private companies and our territories concerned that programming for the period 2014-2020 can be undertaken without further delay. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. with a budget of over €350 billion, cohesion policy is an important public investment tool for our territories, especially in a tight budgetary environment. it is therefore essential to facilitate the adoption and subsequent implementation of the 2014 operational programmes to implement cohesion policy, while remaining vigilant to the quality of their preparation on the one hand and the fight against fraud on the other.
in writing. the european union is facing a clear delay in the programming process for the structural funds for the period 2014-2020. while only half of the operational programmes for the period are expected to be adopted by the end of the year, there is concern that the 2014 budgetary commitments may be lost. this is not acceptable. these funds represent around 34% of the eu budget and allow regions to invest in major infrastructure projects that can create jobs and economic growth. we must therefore help and encourage states to make better use of these funds. if these funds are to be an effective tool for regional development, procedures must be simplified, local and regional authorities must be able to manage the use of grants autonomously and obstacles to co-financing projects must be removed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because cohesion policy is of course aimed at harmonisation and cohesion in the development of european regions but it is also one of our main investment strategies. in the current context of underinvestment and sluggish growth, its usefulness is enhanced. however, we are facing a delay in the programming process and only a very limited number of operational programmes are expected to be adopted by the end of 2014. the commission and the member states must do everything possible to speed up the process of adopting these programmes. i am also concerned about the level of arrears, and the current impasse in the adoption of the draft amending budget and the 2015 budget, which makes the situation with regard to unpaid invoices even more critical. how will these delays in payment affect the launch of the new programmes and what solutions could be found to limit the extent of the damage caused by this situation? i hope the commission will be able to find answers to these questions. the reputation and credibility of the european institutions will not be able to withstand such a situation for long without suffering.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the delays in the launch of the cohesion policy for 2014-2020. the text underlines the worrying delay by the commission in the validation of operational programmes, a necessary step in implementing the new cohesion policy. the commission will have validated only half of the programmes by the end of the year, whereas it should have validated all of them in autumn 2014. this delay will create significant difficulties for projects requesting pre-financing in 2014, as validation will extend until 2015 and may potentially require a revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff). the resolution therefore calls on the commission and the member states to take all measures to validate as many programmes as possible before the end of 2014 and to prepare as far in advance as possible with parliament the procedures for revising the cfp before the fateful date of 1 may 2015. this resolution was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution which warns of delays in the launch of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, which is, in the crisis, a major growth catalyst for the union's territories and the main investment strategy in the real economy at european level. firstly, it is urgent to find a solution to the problem of late payments for the 2007-2013 operational programmes, since this calls into question the credibility and effectiveness of cohesion policy itself. furthermore, for the 2014-2020 programming period, the commission and the member states should accelerate the adoption of a maximum of operational programmes by the end of 2014, as the delays identified are putting at risk the ability of regional and local authorities to adequately plan and implement the european structural and investment funds (esif). it is therefore important that the commission presents to parliament a timetable of action and the measures it intends to take, as soon as possible, to facilitate the implementation of the operational programmes in all the member states.
in writing. - cohesion policy, also known as 'regional policy', aims to contribute to strengthening the economic and social cohesion of the european union. it represents a significant part of the european budget, being the second largest item of expenditure after the common agricultural policy (cap). the resolution condemns the delay in implementing the 2014-2020 programming, but also the backlog of payments amounting to some €23 billion for the 2007-2013 period. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i am voting for it because i can only endorse these good intentions. but i regret that the authors of these are also the same people who vote in parliament for the austerity budgets that contradict them.
in writing. the european union is facing a very serious problem of unpaid debts (€23 billion at the end of 2013 and probably close to €30 billion by the end of 2014). not to mention the 220 billion ral (remains to be liquidated)... this year, in view of the very tense budgetary situation, delays in payment have been observed in programmes co-financed with the structural funds. the last cohesion plan 2007/2013 already has numerous delays in payment for programmes and projects that have been implemented. the local and regional authorities and enterprises are therefore heavily penalized financially, since they have paid the bill and are still waiting for eu co-financing. in addition, there is a fear that the recent and hasty transfer of management of european funds to the regions will lead to a significant delay in the preparation of the next programmes. finally, some member states are now in a particularly difficult situation, simply because of their economic and financial inability to follow the cohesion policy put in place by the eu. in such a context, how can we believe that the eu is seeking to improve the quality of life of the people... so i refrained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which describes the delay at european and regional level in the implementation of the new financial programming. this resolution echoes the inability of the french socialist regions to implement european funds at local level. while france is already far behind in the use of european funds, the blurred and uncoordinated territorial reform is not likely to make up for this backlog. one year after the start of the new programming, the new map of french regions will probably result in a renegotiation of the distribution of european funds from scratch, which will make us lose another year. the first victims will be citizens, businesses and associations who need european investment more than ever in a period of rapid growth and unprecedented deterioration of the labour market, coupled with a drastic reduction in the allocations paid by the french state to local authorities.
in writing. i supported this text because the rapid implementation of the structural funds for the period 2014-2020 must be a priority for the european institutions. the answer lies in simplifying procedures: we are in a crisis, it is essential to mobilise these funds which will be factors of growth.
in writing. i co-signed and voted in favour of the resolution on the delays in the launch of the cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. it is essential that local and regional authorities, and particularly those in the outermost regions, be able to launch their operational programmes as soon as possible. cohesion policy plays an important role in supporting the economic and social development of our outermost regions.
in writing. the delays in the adoption of operational programmes by the commission and the member states, including france, have put many projects in our regions on hold, sometimes even at risk. i would urge that every effort be made to speed up their implementation.
in writing. delays in the 2014-2020 operational programmes of the european cohesion policy have important consequences for the financing of projects under the structural funds. this requires the establishment of special procedures, up to a revision of the multiannual financial framework to be carried out before 1 may 2015, to allow the disbursement of the pre-financing foreseen for 2014. it was therefore essential to remind the commission and the member states of the importance of validating the operational programmes in progress as soon as possible. the council should also be asked to prepare in advance the negotiations with parliament on the revision of the financial framework with a view to reaching an agreement by 1 may 2015. it is in this sense that i supported this text, so that we can quickly find solutions to the delays in the launch of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, a european union policy that directly concerns european citizens.
in writing. impact assessments can only be beneficial if they are carried out correctly, so i voted in favour of this text, which i note claims to 'think first of smes': we must support smes in the face of unfair competition from multinationals which take advantage of the euro-globalists' obstinacy to reject all protectionism, national or continental, on principle.
in writing. in order to gather useful data and assess whether the objectives have been achieved, the commission carries out evaluations to determine the effects of the policies implemented and to assess their impact. the conclusions of these evaluations are used to refine policies. the impact assessment is carried out before the decision is taken and implemented. these analyses are carried out in particular in the context of employment policies, as is the case here with this resolution on the revision of the commission's guidelines on impact analysis and the role of the sme test. the european union currently has more than 20 million smes, representing 99% of all european enterprises. in this resolution we are reminded that smes often have more difficulty than large companies in complying with a legislative act and the commission does not hesitate, not without irony, to state that it has made the principle of 'thinking first of smes' the 'cornerstone of the small business act for europe'. the reality is quite different, however, and the european market is still dominated by multinational companies and financial powers. nevertheless, i voted in favour of this recommendation because it will have a positive impact on smes, which i support, and this text guarantees independence from the commission.
in writing. - the purpose of this resolution is to call for the strengthening of the impact analysis of the sme test. impact assessment is a tool for providing information on the economic, social and environmental effects of eu legislation. the draft resolution recalls that the costs incurred by smes to comply with an eu legislative act can be up to ten times higher than those incurred by large companies. the new regulations on helicopter transport activities, which now prohibit the flying of single-engine aircraft over populated areas at risk, could double the cost of purchasing and operating a helicopter. anything that helps to better assess the impact of legislation and regulation and to avoid economic and social disasters is a good thing. however, the strengthening of impact analysis will not produce the expected results. the technocratic structure of the european union is the main cause of the production of laws and regulations which are totally inapplicable by the member states. however, in order to support our smes, i voted for this resolution.
in writing. the impact assessments of the european commission are a prominent feature of european legislation. these analyses are carried out in advance of a legislative proposal to determine whether the direction taken by the commission in the preparation of a legislative proposal is relevant. this process is determined by guidelines on impact assessments. parliament believes that these guidelines should be amended to make them as effective and transparent as possible. the same applies to the sme test. it has long been established that smes are a key player in the european economy. the same should apply to european legislation. any legislative act must take account of the specificities of the nature of smes. it is therefore also necessary to amend the commission guidelines on the sme test. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. in view of the quality and the correct calibration of european regulation, i agree with the comments made in this joint resolution on the revision of the commission's guidelines on impact assessment and the role of the sme test. in particular, i think it is very important to include the sme test. the test is based on the principle of 'thinking first' of smes, a structuring principle of the 2008 small business act, and allows the interests of smes to be taken into account in policy-making in advance, so that legislation is more favourable to them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the revision of the european commission's guidelines on impact assessment and the role of the sme test. the resolution calls on the european commission to reinstate the 'sme test' in the impact assessments published when new community texts are published. it is essential to continue analysing the impact of european regulation on smes. the role of the impact assessment committee should also be more clearly defined and its opinion integrated into the european commission's decision-making process. our smes must not be victims of european policies, and i welcome this resolution which is moving in the right direction!
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the revision of the commission's guidelines on impact assessments which are published when new community texts are published. the commission proposes to reintroduce the 'sme test', which analyses the impact of eu regulation on smes. the resolution stresses the importance of adapting the analysis to the proposed text and of integrating the opinion of the impact assessment committee into the european commission's decision-making process, while strengthening its independence. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i wished to be a co-signer of this resolution on the revision of the commission's guidelines on impact assessment and the role of the sme test. in order to avoid costly and counterproductive regulation, impact assessments are an important means of decision-making in all european institutions. they are also an essential part of the regulatory improvement process that the new commission's first vice-president will be responsible for. where legislative proposals are amended before adoption by the college of commissioners, the impact assessments should be updated to ensure consistency between the points discussed and the proposals finally adopted. as part of parliament's legislative work, a parliamentary impact assessment would be necessary when substantive changes are made to the commission's original proposal. in addition, it is regrettable that the sme test is not mentioned in the commission's draft guidelines, whereas the commission has made a clear commitment, in the context of the review of the european small business act, to strengthen this test. the test, which is to be applied before any new european legislation is adopted, aims to prevent new obstacles to the smooth functioning of smes in the eu.
in writing. we voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which, taken as a whole, seeks to simplify the process of adaptation to standards for smes, supports smes and micro-enterprises and, above all, encourages greater independence from the commission by setting up impact assessment committees composed of national experts and representatives of the member states.
in writing. - impact assessments are tools used upstream, at the stage of drafting legislative acts. they provide information on the economic, social and environmental effects, the benefits of union action and the foreseeable regulatory and administrative constraints of new legislation. the resolution also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt and implement the measures necessary to ensure that the environment is protected. it also calls for the systematic use of the 'sme test'. why would you do that? the implementation of an impact assessment is of particular importance for smes. they often have more difficulty than large enterprises in adapting to new legal and administrative provisions. the commission also calls for the parliamentary impact assessment to be used more systematically. i vote for it.
in writing. the european commission regularly carries out evaluations to check whether the objectives of its policies have been achieved and what the impact has been. the conclusions of these evaluations should theoretically allow for the fine-tuning of future policies and actions. the impact assessment (or ex ante evaluation) is carried out before the decision is taken and, of course, before it is implemented. these analyses cover all the different policies pursued by the european union. this resolution proposes that we revise the commission's guidelines on impact assessment and the role of the sme test. the european union has some 20 million smes, which account for 99% of all european enterprises. the resolution notes that smes face more difficulties than large enterprises. mr. de lapalisse would not have said it better... the commission says it wants to 'give priority to smes', 'the cornerstone of the small business act for europe in 2008'... the document does not specify that the european union is the source of many of the difficulties faced by these same smes (imposed ultra-liberalism, the so-called 'posted workers' directive, binding administrative regulations and standards, etc.). i voted in favour of the proposal because i want to promote smes, smes and small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the european commission to take account of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the development of its legislation. that's usually the case. however, in a draft revision of the working method, the commission is considering not making this systematic. however, taking account of our smes, which account for more than 90% of enterprises and jobs, is vital at every stage of the legislative process. no provision, no text should penalise our smes. i therefore supported the idea of keeping the sme tests. i also voted in favour of the provisions which strengthened these tests.
in writing. as the jurist jhering stated "the sworn enemy of arbitrariness, form is the twin sister of freedom" i am therefore in favour of a resolution to control the process of reviewing impact assessments carried out by the european commission. the facts must be ascertained by the european institutions as best they can, and their content cannot be altered during the european legislative process. the balance between the european commission's margin of manoeuvre, the economy of means and the accuracy of the facts requires regular revisions of these guidelines in the light of the context.
in writing. in the current climate in which citizens sometimes question the added value of european legislation, the quality of impact studies makes perfect sense. if they are carried out properly, they should enable the commission to better specify the origin and the expected impact of its proposals, and should give the legislator an objective basis for making informed decisions and deciding on the appropriateness of the chosen legislative approach. i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out ways in which we think it would be useful to improve the quality of these studies, and i encourage the commission (and the council) to take account of the key elements we set out in it.
in writing. i supported this resolution so that the european commission, in its review of the guidelines on impact assessment and the role of the sme test, will continue to analyse the impact of eu regulation on smes (small and medium-sized enterprises). it will be useful, in particular, to disseminate the practice of the sme test at member state level and to improve the sme test at european level. smes play a central role in the european economy and the european union must continue to take them into account in a specific way in its policies.
in writing. here, as elsewhere, there are many declarations of intent which can only be accepted. however, under the guise of a noble cause, this text contains several recommendations which i do not approve of, particularly in its article 23, which 'calls on all member states to facilitate family reunification'.
in writing. the motion for a resolution notes many progresses in the world but also highlights the important failures that persist, according to the executive director of unicef. for example, 11% of girls are married before the age of 15 and nearly 168 million children between the ages of 5 and 17 are working. however, the principles contained in this convention should not be recalled because "nothing reveals the soul of a society better than the way it treats its children" (mandela). however, the european union cannot influence all world policy and should focus on respecting these rights of the child within its own borders. it is nevertheless interesting to note that this motion for a resolution, under the guise of defending a noble cause, calls for 'all member states to facilitate family reunification' or the establishment of the european union framework for national roma integration strategies and the union's policy on equality and non-discrimination. in the light of this analysis, i have abstained on this point.
in writing. the rights of the child must be respected in every member state of the european union. all too often, children are victims of violence, abuse and mistreatment. the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child is an opportunity for the european parliament to reiterate its full support for the protection of children. children must be given a significant place in european legislation and must be given special attention. i voted in favour of this resolution, which reaffirms the commitment of the european union and its member states to the rights of the child.
in writing. the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child highlights the many violations of these rights that persist in the member states of the european union, all of which have ratified the convention. the anniversary is an opportunity to remind us that too often children are victims of violence, social exclusion, poverty, discrimination, sexual exploitation and many other evils against which we must constantly fight. i am particularly committed to the fight against all forms of discrimination, whether based on gender, ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation or disability. the principle of the best interests of the child must be taken into account in all european legislation, in particular in access to justice, health care and education.
in writing. the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, adopted by the united nations general assembly on 20 november 1989, is an opportunity to recall that while the convention has promoted changes in national laws to protect children, much remains to be done. as rapporteur for the european parliament's recommendation on the protection of minors and human dignity and the right of reply in relation to the competitiveness of the european audiovisual and online information services industry, i attach particular importance to the protection of children on the internet. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of children against the dangers of ionizing radiation. it is the duty of the states and the eu to do everything possible to effectively protect children and young people from the dangers of the digital world, which is not, the idea to fight, a virtual world without risk or consequence. the regulation of online content, the strengthening of the signalling of illegal content, judicial and police cooperation between member states and with third countries are actions that need to be carried out quickly.
in writing. it is crucial for the european parliament to reiterate its commitment to the defence of the rights of the child. twenty-five years after the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child, the eu is still not doing so. the eu charter of fundamental rights, the european directives and the eu agenda on the rights of the child, however, demonstrate a strong commitment of the union in this area. the problem is implementation, although there is a clear framework. we are often told that a child is first and foremost a child, but, for example, in the case of migrant children, if everyone agrees on the principle of the best interests of the child, in practice, the fears of abuse and misuse of justice prevail, and the child's residence permit or absence prevails. too often, they are treated as adults, with little or no consideration for their obvious vulnerability. the resolution adopted here is a reminder of the commitments of all, but above all it must allow the full implementation of an existing and well-provided legal and operational framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child. the text calls on the commission to coordinate its services better to include the rights of the child in all eu legislative proposals, policies and financial decisions. it also stressed that member states must ensure that the best interests of the child are taken into account in all legislation and that human trafficking, forced labour and sexual exploitation, which still affect too many children, must be prevented. the resolution also calls for the union to accede to the united nations convention on the rights of the child. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i welcome the vote of this parliamentary resolution on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child. twenty-five years after its adoption, the figures are still encouraging and show how much child protection needs to be strengthened at the global level: nearly 6.6 million children under the age of five died in 2012 (mostly from preventable causes), 168 million children aged five to 17 are working, 11% of girls are married before the age of 15, one in ten children die before reaching the age of five in sub-saharan africa, more than 59 million children were directly affected by crises and conflicts in 2014, and there are 250,000 child soldiers worldwide. in addition, 76.5 million children live in poverty in the rich countries. respect for the rights of every child must be at the heart of the social policy of the member states and a priority for the eu's external policy towards the rest of the world. the new high representative should therefore address this issue systematically in political dialogues with third countries and in discussions on conflict resolution.
in writing. i voted against the decision, passed by parliament by 327 votes to 316, to organise 'comprehensive sex education for children to combat stereotypes', because it aims to stuff the heads of our children with gender theory ramblings. the libertarian indoctrination is now!
in writing. - the united nations convention on the rights of the child is an international treaty adopted by the un in 1989 with the aim of recognizing and protecting the specific rights of children. it is a specific denial to children of the human rights as laid down in the universal declaration of human rights. the resolution, full of good intentions, aims to promote its full implementation at both the political and practical levels. i note, however, that she does not mention for one moment the fact that, of the 193 states recognized by the un, only the united states, somalia and south sudan are not parties to this treaty. it is therefore not unthinkable that relations with countries which deny the rights of the child in this way will be called into question. nevertheless, i want to celebrate the anniversary of this convention and i vote in favour.
in writing. while there are many positive elements to the convention, including some progress in the right to education and health for a growing number of children worldwide, there are still clear failures, as acknowledged by the executive director of unicef. these negative aspects include child labour and early and forced marriages (almost 168 million children aged 5 to 17 are in work and 11% of girls are married before the age of 15). it is, of course, regrettable that children's rights are not respected everywhere in the world. however, the european union cannot solve all the world's problems and it is time to refocus on respecting children's rights in europe. in 2011, there were 25 million poor children in the eu. it should also be noted that, under the guise of defending a noble cause, the union asks 'all member states to facilitate family reunification', to encourage the establishment and development of national roma integration strategies and to accelerate the policy of equality and non-discrimination. so i refrained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child is an opportunity for us to remember that children are still victims, including in europe, of abuse, violence and exploitation. our fight against these intolerable acts must continue unabated.
in writing. it is appropriate, on the 25th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, to recall the way forward for the best interests of the child in europe and throughout the world. the european union still has a long way to go, and i ask the member states to make a choice of consistency in their positions on this matter. i therefore vote in favour of such a resolution.
in writing. - the european union must seize the opportunity of the 25th anniversary of this essential convention to adopt new measures to promote the rights of the child. the charter of fundamental rights requires that the best interests of the child be taken into account in all eu policies. respect for the rights of children should apply to all without discrimination, whatever their origin. the most striking example is that of unaccompanied minors, who, before being migrants, are first and foremost children who are potentially at risk and must be protected as such. the resolution calls on the member states to fully implement the common european asylum system in order to improve the situation of these particularly vulnerable minors. meps also call for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that all its citizens are protected. member states, all of whom have ratified the united nations convention on the rights of the child, are obliged to protect and ensure the well-being of each of them. it is time for the european union to join this convention too, since the promotion of the rights of the child is at the heart of the european ideal and our concerns.
in writing. i supported this text which was drafted and presented in plenary following a request and initiative by the epp group. twenty-five years after the convention on the rights of the child was signed and ratified by all eu member states, children continue to be victims of violence and abuse. in the face of this unbearable situation, it was essential to ask the european commission to present a strategy for the rights of the child, including an action plan for the next five years.
in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which reaffirms its commitment to the universal protection of the rights of the child. adopted by the united nations general assembly on 20 november 1989, the convention sets out the principles, rights and freedoms to which every child is entitled in all the major areas of his or her life (health, education, citizenship, etc.). it is thus the backbone of the universal protection of children. taking stock of progress and setbacks in all the fields concerned, this resolution sets out a framework for action in the years ahead. i welcome the fact that the gue/ngl group has succeeded in imposing a large number of amendments calling for the full and effective implementation of the convention, including by insisting that 'all policies on children's rights incorporate a gender perspective', by calling for an 'urgent break' with the austerity policies that have been calling into question the progress made over the last 25 years, and by recalling that the protection of children must be at the heart of our asylum system for unaccompanied minors.
mr president, i voted against this digital single market, which is presented to us as having considerable potential and which should stimulate growth and strengthen confidence. after article 3 of the 1992 treaty on european union, which established the european single market and free movement, the commission now wants to liberalize digital circulation. it is true that new technologies are a constantly developing sector and that europe is lagging behind the united states in this respect. for example, one in five citizens in rural areas still has no access to the internet. however, it will be necessary to monitor the development of this agreement, which seems to be the trojan horse of the commission sweeping away national sovereignty. finally, it is clear that the establishment of the freedom to provide services and the freedom for all europeans and businesses to benefit from the digital services of their choice, wherever they come from in the union, will have to be monitored in order to avoid any risk of dumping, as is already the case with video-on-demand platforms such as netflix.
in writing. i abstained on the motion for a resolution on strengthening consumer rights in the digital single market. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body of the person who is infected. the growth prospects are extremely ambitious. this market is, by its very nature, cross-border. in the absence of tax harmonization, which is the exclusive competence of the council, there is only the fear that the current distortions will be amplified by the exploitation of the weaknesses of this system by multinational companies which repatriate their profits to member states with preferential tax treatment.
in writing. the new commission has shown its commitment to building an efficient and competitive digital single market. to do this, we must ensure that consumer rights are respected and that no situation remains that is contrary to european competition rules. the european parliament has voted in favour of a resolution on strengthening consumer rights in the digital market, sending a strong signal to the us giant google. the latter must not take advantage of its dominant position in the digital market to circumvent the rules of fair competition. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. after the rejection of my amendment on copyright protection, i was unable to vote on the resolution on the digital single market. although i strongly condemn the monopoly of the gafa and encourage the european commission to act in this direction, i cannot accept that this should be done at the expense of copyright. this situation of european innovation being held up can no longer continue.
in writing. the vote on this resolution illustrates the importance of the challenges for the implementation of the digital single market in europe in the coming years. the european parliament expressed its willingness to put in place a comprehensive european strategy to develop this sector. i am committed to respecting the competition rules in the digital single market and voted in favour of the paragraph calling on the european commission to come forward with proposals to separate search engines from other commercial services. the european commission must play its part in preventing excessive market concentration and abuse of a dominant position.
in writing. the draft resolution submitted to parliament favours the emergence of a political form of economic activity which is therefore a utopia and not an economic reality. more importantly, the expansion of the internet's massive data is at the heart of this digital single market project, an area without limits, without borders, and intrusive, therefore without security or individual freedom. i voted against this text which offers no guarantees to citizens in terms of privacy protection and which introduces the free trade ideology into this market.
in writing. i supported this resolution because it advocates a fairer and non-discriminatory digital single market and more favourable conditions for competition. in the current context, we need to directly support european innovation, in particular start-ups, to enhance their potential. that's why i voted for the amendment calling for a separation of google's search and other commercial services; internet users should have a choice between several competitors, whose services could be even better in the future. opening up competition to more players will also help to increase transparency for net users, and this is where we need to move.
in writing. i welcome the fact that this resolution has been adopted, which refocuses the debate on the digital market on consumer rights. this market, largely dominated by americans and asians, must be designed to unlock the creativity of european companies and allow them to develop rather than curb talent and stifle it by fierce competition. that is why the epp group to which i belong defends copyright, which i believe is the best way to protect the creativity and innovation of authors and the cultural and creative industries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the digital single market. the text recalls parliament's support for net neutrality and the reduction of the digital divide and calls on the european commission to take all measures to enforce the competition rules, including by separating the activities of search engines from other commercial services. in the context of the european investigation into google, which has been ongoing since 2010, it was important to remind the commission that it should be firm towards companies whose practices threaten european digital businesses. i regret, however, that the call for a balanced reform of copyright, taking into account the need for fair remuneration for creators and the new habits of consumers, has been suppressed under the impetus of the socialists who preferred to relegate european cultural diversity to the background. i am glad, however, that this resolution was adopted by 384 votes to 174, with 56 abstentions.
in writing. the completion of the digital single market is a key challenge for european businesses and consumers, but also for the eu's technological independence and strategic autonomy vis-à-vis its american and asian competitors. the development of the digital economy in europe must not be achieved at the expense of creators and european cultural diversity. this is why i have defended copyright protection by getting parts of the text deleted that only mention the interests of consumers and internet users. copyright is too often seen as a brake on innovation and free access to cultural content, whereas the existence and future of cultural and creative industries in europe rests primarily on fair remuneration for creators and respect for rightholders. i also welcome the message from parliament on the abuse of google's dominant position, which is helping to maintain political pressure on the commission to ensure fair competition in the european digital market.
in writing. we adopted a resolution on the future of the digital market in europe which has, in a way, "taken over the headlines". we have made a number of demands, set out some requirements and recommended guidelines to the european commission, for which the strengthening of the european digital market is a priority. the european commission must therefore continue to consider proposals to liberalise and secure online services, communication services and e-commerce, all in the interests of european businesses and consumers. but it was essential to remember that the development of the digital economy in europe must not be achieved at the expense of creators and european cultural diversity. this is why the french delegation of the epp group defended copyright protection by getting the deletion of parts of the text that only mention the interests of consumers and internet users. finally, we have sent a message to the european commission asking it to propose ideas on the abuse of a dominant position by certain search engines, whose search engine activities should be separated from other commercial services.
in writing. - the common resolution on the digital single market has a strongly 'all-competition' approach. however, this approach makes it possible, in this particular case, to denounce the de facto monopolies of internet giants such as google and even to call for a separation of commercial activities between search engine and provision of commercial services. i support this approach to break google's monopoly and its non-respect of intellectual property rights, as well as its repeated violations of the right to be forgotten despite the injunctions of national privacy authorities. however, many issues were left out of the drafting and voting of this text: universal access to internet services is put back into the hands of competition, the issue of net neutrality is avoided, and the reference to better protection of intellectual property rights is deleted. these important points are not included in the text presented, so i have chosen to abstain, so as not to go against a resolution which urges the commission to be more severe towards the internet giants who think they can do anything.
in writing. i voted for the protection of net neutrality, which parliament unfortunately rejected. i wanted to give everyone access to the internet on an equal footing. the majority of meps, clearly working with powerful lobbies, preferred to pave the way for two-tiered access: those who can pay will be given priority over others.
in writing. - this resolution concerns the establishment of the digital single market. the digital market is certainly growing. it could be a source of growth and prosperity. but the resolution which is being proposed to us is still based on the logic of competition and the market. it thus indicates that strict enforcement of the union's competition rules within the digital single market will be crucial for market growth, consumer access and choice, and for long-term competitiveness . the commission is also calling on the member states to speed up the implementation of the services directive, which threatens public services, particularly local services. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information society. i vote against.
in writing. the resolution concerns the digital single market, which is described as having 'considerable potential' and should 'stimulate growth and build confidence'. after article 3 of the 1992 teu establishing the european single market and free movement, the commission continues its mad rush towards liberalisation in all areas. it now intends to liberalize digital circulation. while it is true that new technologies are a sector in constant development and that europe lags behind the united states in this area (e.g. in the eu, 1 in 5 citizens in rural areas does not always have access to the internet), it is nevertheless true that we must remain attentive to the way in which this market is developing. the commission must therefore ensure that it does not override the sovereignty of the nations (28 national telecommunications regulators have been abolished as 'brakes' and have simply been replaced by a single european regulator). finally, it will be necessary to ensure the establishment of the free provision of services, the only guarantee for all europeans and businesses to maintain the freedom of choice of digital services. i voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because europe must be a major player in digital globalisation. this objective can only be achieved through european regulation. i have broken with my political group to protect copyright. it is important that creators can live off their work through fair remuneration. i also supported paragraph 10 which seeks to separate the activities of search engines from other activities. it is clear that the ultra-dominance of one actor can be detrimental to the creation and development of new enterprises. i am extremely attached to the freedom of enterprise and to success, but when they are fulfilled in accordance with the rules of the market and our laws.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which recalls the importance of consumer rights in the field of e-commerce. the protection of their data and access to online shopping must be guaranteed. a stable and balanced legal framework will be a factor in the development of enterprises.
the european union needs to adopt a digital industry that is commensurate with its commercial power. i therefore vote in favour of a resolution which promotes consumer rights within the single market and, by extension, the autonomy of the european union in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on strengthening consumer rights in the digital single market because this text, while not perfect, reflects many of my concerns. in particular, we welcome the growth of e-commerce, call for a legislative environment that encourages creativity and innovation, and are concerned with closing the digital divide, or removing existing barriers that continue to hold back the full deployment of the digital single market. secondly, we are clearly addressing the need to ensure a level playing field in the online search and advertising sectors. in this respect, the commission must act firmly in its investigations into potential abuses of dominant positions. we must also aim at improving the situation in the long term, and there are several options. the decoupling of search engine activities from other commercial services may be one of the avenues to be explored. it is time to make firm choices. improving the situation will benefit consumers, internet users, potentially disadvantaged online businesses, growth.
in writing. search engines must not use their dominant position to further their interests in other markets. that is why i supported today a european parliament resolution on the protection of consumer rights in the digital market. the resolution aims in particular to encourage fair competition on this market. it calls on the european commission to "consider proposals to separate search engines from other commercial services". this resolution is a strong reminder that things must change. the interests of consumers must come first. by allowing for more transparency, consumers could benefit from better services and a wider variety of players could operate in the market in undistorted competition.
in writing. in order to unlock untapped potential, create many jobs and boost european competitiveness, the european union needs to remove the obstacles to the growth of the digital market. i supported this resolution because the digital single market could generate 260 billion euros a year, a considerable sum at a time when europe is in crisis. however, the development of the digital economy must not be carried out at the expense of authors, consumer rights and cultural diversity. as such, the french epp delegation has strongly defended the protection of copyright and intellectual property rights. it was also important to insist that search engines, such as google, be separated from other commercial services in order to ensure competitive conditions within the digital single market.
in writing. the integration of the single market is a reality for this commission. she's a political aberration and a financial gaffe to me. the european union is a global player in the digital economy, and the european union is a global player in the digital economy. the report on the cost of non-europe is a telling example of imbalance. the elimination of the last remaining national barriers, as the commission and parliament are keen to see, will have the opposite effect to that which has been long awaited.
in writing. i voted against this resolution on the completion of the digital single market tabled by the epp and s&d political groups. the resolution stresses the growing importance of this sector in all areas of our lives, its economic and job creation potential, the need to respect privacy and net neutrality. i welcome the fact that the resolution calls on 'the commission to consider proposals to separate search engines from other commercial services', which is aimed at google even though it is not mentioned, in order to combat the potential transformation of search engines into filters and the commercialisation of the information obtained. the resolution does not say anything about how to tackle the digital divide. nothing about equal and universal access through affordable prices and across all territories, especially rural and mountainous ones. we know what the single market means: competition law with more flexibility, more liberalization, more public-private partnerships, etc. in this and other areas, public policy should always be guided by the public interest. but beyond words, it is only a question of the law of the "market".
in writing. despite the good intentions expressed in this text, i do not believe that the problem of child malnutrition in developing countries falls within the competence of the european union, and i have therefore chosen to abstain.
in writing. the findings of this motion for a resolution, based on an oral question on the situation of child malnutrition in the world, are overwhelming. almost one billion people still suffer from hunger worldwide, including at least 225 million children, and extreme poverty is one of the causes. the european union is proposing to provide support of up to €3.5 billion by 2020 to developing countries, while poverty continues to grow in the eu. the proposal even calls for an increase in the budget devoted to this, and this at a time when europeans are subjected to increasing austerity. through the economic policies they impose on developing countries and the dictatorship of multinational corporations, developed countries, such as those in the eu, are also directly responsible for the problems of malnutrition. it is no longer enough to give ourselves a good conscience by distributing european funds whose usefulness can sometimes be doubted, often diverted for purposes other than food or health, but it is necessary to engage in a genuine policy of responsible co-development, and that is why i abstained on this proposal.
in writing. malnutrition and undernourishment are a pressing and recurrent phenomenon, particularly in developing countries. we must do everything in our power to redress this situation. this is achieved both through humanitarian mobilization and through structural aid for the agricultural sector in these countries. malnutrition and undernutrition have serious and often irreversible consequences on the human body. these phenomena affect a large proportion of the population, and the consequences will continue to be felt by future generations. i voted in favour of this resolution, which shows the european union's commitment to the fight against hunger in the world.
in writing. to call on the european commission, our states and the countries concerned to do more to address the challenges of child under-nutrition and malnutrition is the meaning of this resolution. even now, about a billion people worldwide suffer from hunger, many of them children. the resolution has the particular merit of promoting a more integrated vision of european policies, and this at two levels: better coordination of policies affecting under-nutrition, on the one hand, and between emergency and development programmes, on the other. such an approach will make eu-funded projects more effective for the benefit of local people.
in writing. child malnutrition is a scourge. it kills and creates irreversible damage in the child. we shall fight this scourge by taking action, of course, on the ground, in the long term, with a good development policy. it's the water issue, it's the school issue, it's the agriculture issue, it's the food self-sufficiency issue, it's the land management issue. this is obvious. but if we want immediate results, if we want to save children today, then we need to change the paradigm. and allow development policy to appropriate the results of humanitarian action. we know how to reduce infant mortality. this was done in the sahel, as part of humanitarian actions, thanks to the support of echo: one million children treated since 2006 with 50 dollars a year. we give a child ready-made therapeutic food in a sachet and save him. the world bank has largely endorsed this approach. we must all think about how the 11th edf can take this approach, learn from humanitarian practice, and organise it on a large scale. so that the children who suffer from malnutrition in the world today can be saved tomorrow.
in writing. the report contains an excessive number of amendments which make the text complex and burdensome. the implications will be confusing, and this is harmful to such an important subject, the real causes of which, the global imbalances caused by unchecked globalisation, are not sufficiently addressed. i have therefore decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. this resolution is first and foremost a declaration of intent. it overlooks a major cause of malnutrition - the export of food to the international market. in countries affected by malnutrition, there is competition between local food agriculture and monocultures for export to developed countries. it is more profitable for developing countries to export animal and plant products in order to benefit from more promising markets. this leads to the disappearance of local subsistence agriculture, which the population needs to feed itself. the gradual disappearance of trade barriers in the agricultural sector is exacerbating this phenomenon, as food exports are still favoured at the expense of local populations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on child malnutrition in developing countries. it laments that nearly one billion people still suffer from hunger, including at least 225 million children under five years of age who suffer from chronic malnutrition. the resolution stresses that the causes of malnutrition are largely man-made and therefore preventable. possible actions should address inefficient economic structures, unequal or unsustainable distribution or use of resources, poor governance, discrimination against women and children, or weaknesses in health and education systems. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. while every year in europe more and more healthy and edible food (up to 50% according to some estimates) is wasted along the agri-food chain to the consumer and becomes waste, 79 million european citizens live below the poverty line and 16 million depend on food aid. malnutrition is a global scourge: nearly one billion people still suffer from hunger and at least 225 million children under five suffer from acute and chronic malnutrition and stunted growth due to chronic malnutrition in both children and mothers. i therefore welcome the political message sent by the european parliament through this resolution on child malnutrition and the commitment by the european commission to invest eur 3.5 billion between 2014 and 2020 to improve nutrition in some of the poorest countries in the world. however, further efforts will be needed to achieve the target of reducing the number of children under five years of age with stunted growth by seven million by 2025.
in writing. two hundred and twenty-five million children under five suffer from malnutrition. yet, the causes "are mostly man-made and therefore preventable". the resolution recalls international commitments and calls for better coordination of key policies in this area (excessive reliance on monoculture, inadequate health care systems, etc.). it also denounced budget cuts in the european development fund and an "unequal distribution of resources" and "speculation in raw materials". it contains some ridiculous phrases which were added by the right wing in this text. thus, morbidity and decreased productivity are juxtaposed as consequences of malnutrition. however, i encourage the positive sentiments of this text without any practical application. i vote for it.
in writing. i abstained on this report, which has been overly burdened by amendments which go in all directions. in fact, while child malnutrition in developing countries is a terrible problem and of course requires the attention and help of rich countries, it is nevertheless true that each country must remain free to ensure its development in the way it sees fit and according to its own context and internal realities. once again, the essential notion of the right of peoples to self-determination must be respected by the european union. we should also not forget that too often the problem of child malnutrition in developing countries is greatly aggravated by the very policies of interference or geopolitical maneuvering of major nations.
in writing. i supported this resolution. in parallel with the vote on the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, we voted more specifically on the issue of child malnutrition. this is a serious problem because it affects the fundamental human right to food. in the context of the millennium development goals, we must commit ourselves to effective partnership policies to eradicate the scourge of malnutrition. an estimated one billion people still suffer from hunger, including at least 225 million children under the age of five. official development assistance must be targeted and better controlled to ensure that every penny paid cannot be diverted to other ends.
in writing. i supported the resolution on child malnutrition and under-nutrition in developing countries because it recalls the fundamental challenges to be met if all the population is to have access to decent food in sufficient quantities. today, two billion people suffer from "invisible hunger", and 2.6 million children under five die each year in developing countries. it is therefore essential to put pressure on the international community to ensure that everyone has access to sufficient food in both quantity and quality.
in writing. i am voting in favour of a resolution calling on the european union and its member states to take into account the problems of malnutrition for which swift and effective action can be taken. it is equally important to recall the mechanisms in place and the progress made, as provided for in this resolution, in order to better coordinate joint action.
in writing. the european union, the world's largest provider of development aid, takes the problem of child malnutrition in developing countries very seriously. nearly 20 million children are currently suffering from severe acute malnutrition, with serious consequences for their development; the situation must not continue and solutions must be found quickly. i voted in favour of this text to encourage the european commission to continue its efforts in the fight against child malnutrition. it is essential that the commission continues its action: it has committed to investing €3.5 billion between 2010 and 2020 to improve nutrition in the world's poorest countries; it also set a target of reducing the number of children under five with stunted growth by seven million by 2025.
in writing. with more than 225 million children under five suffering from acute malnutrition and 2.6 million of them dying each year, malnutrition is by far the leading cause of infant mortality. yet, many international conventions commit states to combating this phenomenon, the foremost of which is the millennium development goals (mdgs). the resolution goes beyond the unanimously shared findings and paternalistic recommendations to developing countries, and analyses the causes of child malnutrition: unequal distribution of resources, the impact of climate change on agricultural production, economic crises, discrimination against women and children, etc. it considers them avoidable and acknowledges the part of the responsibility of the industrialized countries in this matter; the commission also condemns the reduction in the funds allocated to agriculture under the 10th european development fund. the resolution calls for an increase in the eu budget of eur 3.5 billion for the period 2014-2020. i vote for it, but i have no illusions.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would first like to thank you for your opening remarks on freedom of the press in turkey: this is an extremely important and strong gesture on the part of the representative of our institution. secondly, what happened yesterday in turkey is totally unacceptable, since journalists were arrested in 13 cities. now, there are threats against 150 journalists in turkey, according to the information i have, by christmas, including the main tv and radio journalists and the biggest national daily newspaper. therefore, we should adopt either a resolution or a statement by the high representative to stop this as soon as possible.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, mr president, you have just said that you are in favour of the european union's accession to the convention on international trade in wildlife, but at the same time you want to preserve the competence of the states. i see a contradiction here: if the european union joins this convention, the states will necessarily lose a new part of their sovereignty, as one of the previous speakers has said. what do you think?
madam president, i shall confine myself to two observations during the minute of speaking time i have been given. firstly, commissioner, i fully share your view that the european union must now assume its full responsibilities in global governance, in an area which is a real challenge for civilization. we can see that the european union's leading role in the conferences of the parties on climate has given them a new impetus. i hope that this will be a boost to the fight against wildlife trafficking. secondly, this question brings us back to the larger debate - perhaps philosophical, for that matter - about the relationship of our species to the rest of the living world. we are still a curious species that, to satisfy the often futile needs of consumers around the world - and often european consumers - commits mass crimes. we have to take action. we are now in the sixth wave of species extinction since the beginning of the world.
madam president, this convention, even if it is imperfect, is a useful instrument as long as its objective of protecting endangered species remains unchanged. at present, member states vote individually, on their own responsibility, on projects submitted to cites. they are certainly in line with a common position defined by the council, but they are legally free to vote in any other direction. what will change with the accession of the european union is that the european union will be granted the voting rights of all member states at the conferences of the parties. the transfer of voting therefore constitutes a transfer of sovereignty, which we are opposed to in principle. but there's more to it than that. we do not trust the european union to resist lobbies, because lobbies will demand restrictions or, on the contrary, the removal of restrictions on trade in certain endangered species. there is a particular concern that certain fish species for human consumption may be included in the cites register, which would pave the way for a ban on fishing for them. at present, this is not the case, as it is the regional fisheries management bodies that regulate commercial fisheries. but there have been calls for fish for human consumption to be included in cites. the danger is that under the influence of certain lobbies, the european union prefers to simply ban fishing for certain species rather than regulate it. that is why we refuse to sign a blank cheque to the european union.
in writing. the protection of fauna and flora is a long-term policy of great importance, as it guarantees the preservation of the natural environment in which we live, which is a great global asset. this commitment to biodiversity is a battle that i am fighting with my french and european colleagues in this parliament, where we are presented with texts and projects that threaten fauna and flora, such as genetically modified organisms, and which glorify free trade. the european union therefore does not seem to be in agreement with itself when it seeks to wrap itself in conventions that give it a good conscience. moreover, for most of them, the member states have already acceded to the convention and the union's accession would be tantamount to denying the interpretations of the convention produced by the nations, and to establishing the illegitimate authority of the european technocracy. finally, i cannot support this recommendation for a veneer, since the greatest advance in this area would be the restriction of free trade and the strengthening of local policies by free nations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against global warming and the reduction of greenhouse gases are among the major global environmental debates of the moment, as the lima climate conference, which ended this weekend, has just demonstrated. the debate is complicated when it comes to going beyond incantations and good intentions. if the subject were less serious, i would be tempted to say, with a touch of irony, that it is becoming a mexican, let alone peruvian, simplicity. in lima and in the perspective of a hypothetical global agreement at the end of 2015 in paris , the participants debated the sex of angels, with strong legal references, to see if the solution lay in a binding international treaty or in a simple protocol, more flexible for developing countries. the commission directive we are discussing today is one of the pillars of the european institutions' climate and energy policy. the commission proposes five main approaches to calculating the constraints on fuel producers to reduce the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions. it does so on the basis of highly technical considerations. this is the method of calculation which is challenged by our excellent colleagues gerbrandy and eickhout. the two sides in this debate have at least one thing in common: they both hide behind highly legal and mathematical considerations to conceal partisan motivations, which override the need for a real ecological policy. we criticise the commission's method of calculation for reflecting the well-understood interests of the north american oil industry. the canadian minister for natural resources has publicly spoken out against european legislation which would be concerned with conventional supplies, reminding us of our obligations in international trade. the authors of the objection under rule 106 are looking for a pretext to distance themselves from this parliamentary majority, which is becoming increasingly discredited and unpopular following its support for jean-claude juncker. but they're still one of the pillars of the soup: it may not be organic, but it's good. we hope that the ecological policy of our countries will be guided by criteria of general interest which are not, by definition, shoplifting or commercialism.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, on 30 january 2009, the european commission adapted the 2006 directive. this directive was essential in that it established rules for the control of legislation in the road sector, in particular the driving times, breaks and rest periods of european road drivers. the aim was to establish a common classification of infringements of social legislation in the road sector according to their severity, which should have put an end to the existing disparities. yes, today a crime may be considered serious in one country and minor in another. the process of harmonising social and wage standards for road drivers has not progressed at the same pace as the liberalisation of the markets. some companies use social dumping practices, which reduce their production costs while reducing the cost of labour. the first victims of this situation are the drivers of lorries. unfair competition practices are contrary to their social rights and are bringing down the whole of europe. it is high time to advocate an upward harmonisation of the rights of european employees. what about today? many states do not play the game, whereas the very purpose of a classification is to allow targeted control in companies where the level of compliance is too low. the commission proposal does not strengthen this harmonization; on the contrary, it weakens it. so now is the time to be ambitious. we therefore ask you to include in this list of offences new criteria such as the breach of the rules on road drivers' certificates, by adopting a genuine new legislation on the transport of dangerous goods, but also all the illegal practices that are too widespread, which have the consequence of increasing social dumping in this sector at european level. in short, there is real urgency: the offer you make us is not up to the task, we expect a lot from you.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, social dumping and its corollary, unfair competition, are major social problems in europe, which have only worsened with the crisis. the single market cannot work as long as inequalities between workers in different countries of the union are widening. the transport sector is far from spared and, while the commission could have proposed a delegated act in the direction of social progress, it has missed the opportunity to properly punish violation of social standards in the field of road transport. a company caught illegally cabotage today would, according to the legislation proposed by the commission, be still allowed to transport goods into the european union tomorrow. if it is essential that the honour of road hauliers depends on their compliance with road safety rules, it is equally necessary that they comply with social rules. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament, the only european institution elected by direct universal suffrage, has been able to prevent the implementation of a delegated act of the european commission if it is not in conformity with its content. members of the european parliament should take advantage of this essential democratic advance to reject this unjust legislation which is contrary to the general interest of our fellow citizens. the socialist and democratic group will not compromise with serious breaches of the rules of the european union. we therefore call on all members to vote against the list presented by the european commission, which must come back to this house with a complete list as soon as possible.
mr president, i am convinced of the need for cooperation with the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean and i welcome the establishment of interstate cooperation, particularly in the interesting galileo project, in which morocco has been involved for almost ten years. we are called upon to work together on the major scientific, energy and ecological questions, but also, and perhaps especially, on the demographic issues. the european union can certainly play a facilitating role and that is why i do not see a priori any disadvantage in the european union participating in this research and innovation partnership. my country france has already committed to participate in prima with €4 million per year. if this money is used properly, it can be of use to the people of the southern mediterranean, who regularly face serious food and water problems due to the extreme instability of both climate and politics. however, i would draw your attention to the fact that such cooperation must be beneficial to all parties, which is the very idea of a partnership. the necessary control of migration flows is one of the things we are entitled to demand of our partners. this question - you will agree - is not incidental. so we eurocritics - that is to say, euro-realists - do not throw the baby out with the bath water. our firm opposition to euro-globalism does not prevent us from supporting the few projects that seem to us to be moving in the right direction. article 185 tfeu states that the participation of the european union in research and development programmes undertaken by several member states must be done 'in agreement with the member states concerned'. however, we remain vigilant because we believe that nation states must remain masters of their own destiny, especially at a time when the european institutions seem, all too often, to be working against the interests of the peoples of europe.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this debate on the implementation of the partnership for research and innovation in the mediterranean area (prima). in 2008, france wanted to relaunch the barcelona process with the union for the mediterranean. initiatives have been taken, but much remains to be done. prima is a concrete and positive project that can link the two coasts of the mediterranean. it aims to ensure the coherence of the research programmes of 11 eu member states and eight mediterranean countries in order to better respond to the growing and shared challenges in the region. i say 'shared' because the issues raised by the erosion of natural capital, water scarcity and climate change are having an increasing impact on the southern shore of the mediterranean but also on the northern shore. i therefore fully support this initiative and believe it is essential that the strengthening of scientific and technological cooperation between the mediterranean countries be supported by the european union and the institutional and financial possibilities provided for by the lisbon treaty and the horizon 2020 programme.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr vice-president, we are here, at the first meeting of this parliament, to debate this important topic of economic governance. during the last parliament we made an unprecedented breakthrough in banking, by setting the stage for banking union. the opportunity we have now, in this commission of the last chance, is to put in place measures which will not only overcome the financial crisis but also prevent a crisis of political union. for this reason, the work we are beginning here is of the utmost importance. however, you present the balance sheet of the six-pack and the two-pack in a short and factual way, without taking into account the state of under-inflation and the serious social crisis, or the under-growth in the euro area and the union as a whole. it seems to me, however, that the legislators have not called us to hear this summary. i must say that on the same day you published a document which seems to me to be more forward-looking, with the annual growth review, which acknowledges the seriousness of the situation, and in particular of this social crisis, which emphasizes the issue of both supply and demand, which admits the existence of a deficit in investment and the risk of falling off in several sectors and which invites member states with budgetary room for manoeuvre to use them. finally, as regards the multilateral dimension of the european semester, you stress the need to put the economies of the member states in perspective. unfortunately, somehow, i get the impression that this mindset is not reflected in your evaluation of the six-pack and the two-pack. you're telling us they weren't tested in normal times. this is obvious, since these rules were adopted in an exceptional context, to deal with an exceptional situation. but the result is clearly not what it seems. we must ensure that the debate which is now taking place remains multidimensional. when the heads of state and government confirmed this end-of-year meeting to evaluate the six-pack and the two-pack last june, they also gave you a mandate to define the margins of flexibility for economic governance. we're waiting for you on this. we hope that the document you are putting on the table will not define new rules but will make it possible to move from the logic of strict rule to a real steering of economic policy. it's not the same thing. i hear some of you are very strict about the rules. we're going to. but we know their limits, since they cannot be applied, because they encroach on the sovereignty of the member states and foster anti-european sentiment, and because they are too complicated to allow the appropriation you have mentioned. we are waiting for you to give us an interpretation of this, to give us the possibility of flexibility, and above all we know that the road map is once again open for the famous report by the four presidents, in which the european parliament wants to play its full part. because everyone is telling us that if we do not move forward together on economic governance, europe will fall apart. the europe of last resort is the place to be, despite a certain paralysis and the impression that the debate between the member states is now confined to exchanges of bird names. we think that we must get back to work, start talking to each other normally, understand each other and that in this situation you are basically waiting for the good ideas of parliament and the good will of the council. we hope to live up to that.
madam president, commissioner, after the union has established the budgetary and stability pacts, how effective is your economic and financial governance? french patriots agree with you and condemn the abysmal debt, the result of the privatization of public money by the world capital markets. this chronic over-indebtedness makes citizens future slaves of debt. tomorrow our foreign creditors will demand even more social austerity, more privatization, less public services and less sovereignty at the expense of domestic demand. look at the economic and social tragedy you have caused in greece and cyprus with your structural reforms! yes, each member state, to remain free, must indeed reduce its deficits and public debt but the economic efforts must focus on the wrong spending: the exorbitant cost of mass immigration, the cost of the permanent rescue of the euro 17 billion euros per year for four years in france , the cost of social fraud, etc. to return to a balanced public accounts without austerity, sovereign states need national instruments - control of their borders, their currency, their budget, their banks, their national priority, etc. all that your federalist europe has precisely confiscated. it is by abandoning your imaginary world and thanks to our patriotic economic model that the europe of nations will regain sound public finances, employment and economic growth. the united kingdom does not need the six-pack or the two-pack to have a lower level of debt than france and above all economic growth of more than 3% this year. mr juncker is keen to tighten the rules of budgetary discipline to correct the excessive deficits of others, even though the union has €30 billion outstanding in 2014, a budget ratio of 20%. ask mr. arthuis what he thinks!
madam president, commissioner, when the crisis broke out in 2009, the black hole in the political dimension of monetary union was revealed with the cruelty of the emergency. we have therefore introduced all those concepts which the new european language loves: the troika, the european semester ... but behind these words lies a policy: austerity for the masses and largesse in the allocation of public funds to the banks. six years after the crisis, it's time to take stock, and if we face the truth, it's a failure. the union's macroeconomic choices have been the instruments of a devastating austerity policy, and mr lamassoure has gone further where these rules have been applied. the eurozone is still in crisis: europe has seven million more unemployed, a third more than at the start of the crisis, public debts have not been reduced, the investment deficit is estimated at €300 billion a year and deflation is looming over the union. but above all, the gap between the member states is widening, which is a paradox of the convergence rules, which in fact lead to divergence. we are now in an unfortunate situation, characterized by extremely low interest rates, a large and available supply of liquidity, and a deficit of private investment that is killing off potential growth. and you want to maintain this governance framework which prevents member states from reviving their economies! and you, mrs van nieuwenhuizen, insist on keeping the countries in crisis in the dark. however, jean-claude juncker seems to have understood this urgency by proposing, as part of his investment plan, flexibility in the assessment of the public deficit, in particular for the contribution of the member states. but now it is essential to reform the european governance tools in depth, to give priority to investment, to integrate social criteria, in particular employment criteria, and to move towards fiscal convergence. of course, macroeconomic rules are needed, and rules are obviously made to be respected, provided they are effective. in this case, however, the rules of convergence, stability and growth have so far led only to divergence and recession and will lead to chaos tomorrow.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do you not agree that the difficulty lies in the fact that some of these rules are procyclical in nature and that it is therefore in the interests of all, including those in surplus, that we should allow the states in difficulty to adjust? what is your response and follow-up to mr draghi's calls for us to mobilise aggregate demand within the euro area?
mr president, commissioner, i thought i would see commissioner moscovici sitting next to you, who cannot be said to have done much to help reduce the deficit when he was minister for the economy in france, but i am told that he admires the greek statuette in the parthenon museum in athens. when he returns to this parliament, he will be able to gauge the decadence of european civilization by looking at the hideous paintings that are displayed in the corridor, including those that degrade the image of christ and his mother. but let us return to the more mundane questions. the six-pack and the two-pack constitute a system of binding texts which place the budgetary policies of the member states under the commission's authority. several speakers stressed the complexity and failure of the system, which needs to be reformed or, better, abolished. but it will in any case leave in place the provisions which the states have been so reckless as to ratify, and i am thinking in particular of the famous tscg, the treaty on stability, coordination and governance. we have heard mr juncker say that these provisions could be applied with flexibility, in order - i think - to calm the protests of the parliaments and, more importantly, of the peoples of europe. the results are well known: the destruction of pension schemes, social regression in all directions and the destruction of the productive apparatus. i have heard our colleague, mr lamberts, who wants coordination to be top-down, but it is useless, ladies and gentlemen, for it to be top-down in europe if europe is open to all the elements of unbridled competition.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal. i think that you, mr hökmark, have stigmatised public budget deficits and that your opinion can be accepted to some extent. but do you not think that these deficits are actually the result of something even more serious, namely trade deficits? these trade deficits are actually caused by the fact that the european market is open to a group of countries which do not practice ...
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr bayet, i agree with your statement, but what are your party in france and your president waiting for to apply these fabulous rules?
mr president, when faced with a difficulty, it is always easy to scapegoat others, and this is usually a sign of a certain intellectual laziness. in the context of the european union, which is the subject of this debate, ease is certainly not an option. we are on the verge of a deflationary spiral that could sweep us all away, regardless of our nationality. so let us not allow national invectives to take the place of democratic debate, and let us not allow rigid rules to take the place of instruments of control. the urgent need is to build a genuine economic governance which would remind us of what the union should always be, namely a project of cooperation between states, not competition, and a project for the benefit of citizens, not to their detriment. of course, this will require a revision of the existing tools, and that is where we are waiting for the commission.
in writing. following the economic and financial crisis, the european union wanted to strengthen its economic governance through the six-pack and two-pack regulations which are here reviewed. the six-pack authorises the commission to request budgetary corrections for member states whose expenditure is falling short. worse, after two reminders, it can fine states that disobey brussels' injunctions, fines of up to 0.1% of gdp. the latter is supplemented by the two-pack which strengthens the commission's powers in the budgetary surveillance of the member states. moreover, the two-pack requires states to rely on independent growth forecasts and submit their budgets to a budgetary control body. finally, the budgetary pact (bpsc) should become a reality in 2018. this 'golden rule', a genuine austerity plan, will put a little more control on national budgets and kill growth in the member states. after depriving us of our monetary sovereignty, these regulations and treaties sacrifice the freedom of the peoples to decide for themselves on the altar of european federalism. it's a victory for the rating agencies and the financial markets over the states!
in writing. since the economic crisis, the union has decided to increase its economic governance , through the six-pack and two-pack regulations. an intrusive instrument by nature, the six-pack allows the commission to require budgetary corrections from member states whose expenditure is falling short. after two reminders, the states which were not complying with the brussels injunctions were then fined. the two-pack further strengthens the commission's powers in the field of budgetary surveillance. member states are thus obliged to rely on independent growth forecasts and to submit their budgets to a budgetary control body. the budgetary pact (bps), which was called for by the merkel-sarkozy duo, will come into force in 2018. this 'golden rule' or another austerity plan will end the control of national budgets and will destroy any idea of growth in the member states. these two regulations are contrary to our monetary and budgetary sovereignty and to the interests of the french people. with the union, there is more and more submission to the dogma of the single currency, to ultra-liberalism, federalism and the financial markets!
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details, see minutes)
mrs spinelli, i thank you, but this is not a point of order. the agenda calls for the election of the european ombudsman. the election will be held in accordance with rule 219 of our rules of procedure. i received the nomination from mrs. emily o'reilly. i would remind you that, in accordance with rule 219 (5), the vote is by secret ballot and that, in order to be elected, the candidate must receive a majority of the votes cast. in accordance with the constant practice of parliament, abstentions are not considered as votes cast. since this is a secret vote, the blue light on your terminal will light up regardless of whether you vote for, against or abstain. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to it. we will be conducting a test vote to verify that at least 376 members are present. i therefore ask you to vote in favour, against or abstention in a moment. the test vote is open.
in writing. the role of the european ombudsman is to investigate cases of maladministration in the eu institutions. it is responsible for ensuring that the european institutions are run efficiently and in a politically neutral way (which is not a given in this institution...). the ombudsman is elected by parliament for a term of five years. i voted against the election of outgoing ombudsman emily o'reilly in order not to support these technocratic institutions.
in writing. ‒ the role of the european ombudsman is to investigate cases of maladministration in the eu institutions. it is responsible for ensuring that the european institutions are run efficiently and in a politically neutral way (which is not a given in this institution...). the ombudsman is elected by parliament for a term of five years. i voted against the election of outgoing ombudsman emily o'reilly in order not to support these technocratic institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of emily o'reilly as european ombudsman. the role of the ombudsman is very important. it is the link between citizens and the european institutions. its mission is to strengthen the rights of european citizens by investigating cases of maladministration in the european institutions and bodies. it is therefore a key element of democratic control within the european union. ms o'reilly, who has been ombudsman since october 2013, has done an admirable job. so i'm very happy that i voted for his re-election.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of keeping emily o'reilly as european ombudsman. the former irish journalist had previously served as a mediator in her country and had already been elected as european ombudsman in 2013. during the year, it substantially modernised the ombudsman's function and focused its action on institutional transparency and the guarantee of fundamental rights. i welcome his re-election by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman plays a key role in ensuring the rights of citizens of the union. it is independent and impartial in examining complaints against the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and in investigating cases of maladministration. during her previous term, emily o'reilly did encouraging work in favour of the transparency of institutions and the protection of citizens' fundamental rights. i welcome his re-election as european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ as the rapporteur on this issue within the french epp delegation, i voted in favour of the re-election of ms emily o'reilly as european ombudsman with 569 votes out of 751. since her election in the summer of 2013, ms o'reilly has indeed begun work on modernising the ombudsman's function, focusing in particular on the transparency of the union's institutions. i hope that his new mandate will enable him to continue along this path and to defend the rights of european citizens effectively. the european ombudsman is the defender of the rights of european citizens. it ensures that procedures are transparent and that the rules are respected throughout the european institution.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman investigates complaints against the institutions and bodies of the union in cases of maladministration. this occurs when an institution does not act in accordance with the law or does not respect the principles of good administration, for example in cases of administrative irregularities, abuse of power, failure to reply, refusal of information or unnecessary delays. the candidate, ms emily o'reilly, was elected european ombudsman in july 2013 following the retirement of her predecessor. it has launched investigations into the transparency of the transatlantic negotiations and the respect for fundamental rights in the framework of frontex. i vote for it.
in writing. the european ombudsman is responsible for investigating cases of maladministration in all the institutions of the european union. in particular, it must ensure that the european institutions respect the principle of political neutrality (which is of course far from being a matter of course in their very way of functioning). the ombudsman is elected by the european parliament and serves for five years. i voted against the election of outgoing ombudsman emily o'reilly because i did not support these technocratic institutions with no popular legitimacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for mrs o'reilly because she has shown a great deal of professionalism in her work so far. it has shown that it is at the service of our citizens and plays a decisive role in making the european institutions appear less arbitrary and more transparent to them.
in writing. ‒ the role of the european ombudsman is to investigate cases of maladministration in the eu institutions. it is responsible for ensuring that the european institutions are run efficiently and in a politically neutral manner (which is not a given in this institution...). the ombudsman is elected by parliament for a term of five years. i voted against the election of outgoing ombudsman emily o'reilly in order not to support these technocratic institutions.
in writing. ‒ as the european union's influence on citizens' daily lives grows, the european ombudsman plays a key role in ensuring that the institutions' activities are in compliance with the law. integrity and a sense of justice are qualities that mrs emily o'reilly was able to demonstrate during her previous term. that is why i am voting for his re-election.
in writing. this proposal for a european parliament and council directive repeals council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 on the assistance of the member states to the commission and their cooperation in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs. the european food safety authority (efsa) is now responsible for these tasks. this repeal is the last step before a situation arises where a supranational body confiscates the sovereignty of member states where they previously cooperated freely with each other. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the repeal of council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 is the last step in the transition from a system where states cooperated with each other on food security issues to a system of transfer of sovereignty to a supranational entity without any legitimacy. we have always fought and denounced these policies which take away the rights of the european peoples and entrust them to administrations unknown to the general public and which have no responsibility to the citizens. this absolute denial of democracy is unacceptable. i am deeply attached to national sovereignty and naturally voted against such a report.
in writing. in december 2012, the commission committed to promoting better regulation to ensure a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory environment. it is in this context that the proposal for a directive repealing the directive on the assistance of the member states to the commission and their cooperation in the scientific examination of questions relating to foodstuffs is to be found. by now entrusting the scientific task previously entrusted to the scientific committee for food to the european food safety authority, the european union is welcomely streamlining its regulatory framework in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which provides for the repeal of the directive on the scientific examination of foodstuffs, which has become obsolete. this directive no longer needs to be followed since the european food safety authority (efsa) has taken over the scientific examination of foodstuffs. in view of the burden of red tape on businesses and administrations, we must do everything possible to combat regulatory inflation and to legislate better, by not hesitating to delete texts such as this one which have become unnecessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr giovanni la via, on the scientific examination of food-related issues. the text supports the repeal of this directive, the provisions of which had become obsolete. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ directive 93/5/eec concerns the scientific examination of food-related matters. the purpose of this directive was to ensure the proper functioning of the scientific committee for food. to this end, scientific support from the member states and cooperation with the competent national bodies on food safety matters shall be encouraged. but in 2002 the scientific tasks of the scientific committee for food were taken over by the european food safety authority (efsa). change of scenery! directive 93/5/eec has therefore become obsolete. it is a question of repealing it. but it's to follow the current regulatory fitness and performance (refit) programme launched in 2012. this proposal does not substantially alter the scientific examination of food-related issues. all of this for this...
in writing. the repeal of council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 is the last step in the transition from a system where states cooperated with each other on food security issues to a system of transfer of sovereignty to a supranational entity without any legitimacy. we have always fought and denounced these policies which take away the rights of the european peoples and entrust them to administrations unknown to the general public and which have no responsibility to the citizens. this absolute denial of democracy is unacceptable. i am deeply attached to national sovereignty and naturally voted against such a report.
in writing. this is a technical report to repeal an outdated directive, since since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 178/2002 of the european parliament and of the council, the scientific task entrusted to the scientific committee for food is carried out by the scientific committee and the scientific groups of the european food safety authority (efsa). therefore, i see no reason why we should not vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the repeal of council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 is the last step in the transition from a system where states cooperated with each other on food security to a system where they delegate their sovereignty to a supranational entity without legitimacy. we have long denounced this development which takes power away from the people of europe and gives it to administrations unknown to the public and not accountable to any voter. this increasingly blatant denial of democracy is unacceptable. i therefore oppose this report.
in writing. ‒ we needed to modernise food safety and food law. i therefore support a measure to repeal texts which are no longer applicable.
in writing. ‒ this report streamlines the existing european food control procedures. this text is part of the refit programme, which aims to abolish superfluous eu legislation. we are voting to repeal a directive which has become obsolete with the entry into force of the european food safety authority. i encourage initiatives of this kind, which invite the european union to focus on the essentials, and not to drown in the details of the rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text because it is part of the european commission's efforts to simplify legislation since 2012. the directive to which this text refers concerns scientific cooperation between the member states and the commission on foodstuffs. this cooperation is now managed by the european food safety authority. as this legislation has become obsolete, the european parliament voted to abolish it, in the spirit of clear and coherent european legislation.
in writing. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an intergovernmental agreement signed on 3 march 1973 in washington. cites must ensure that international trade in cites-listed species, parts and derivatives thereof, does not undermine the conservation of biodiversity and is based on the sustainable use of wildlife. this convention, although imperfect, is very useful in its goal of protecting endangered species. at present, each member state sits individually within cites. the accession of the european union to cites will entail a further loss of sovereignty for the states since the union will now have the vote of all the member states at the conferences. i therefore voted against the union's accession to cites.
in writing. ‒ this international instrument for the protection of endangered species of fauna and flora, although imperfect, can be of some use. i regret that the debates in the legal affairs committee and in plenary have mainly concerned the legal basis of the text. it does not matter whether the basis is article 192 on the environment or a combination with article 207 which concerns the common commercial policy. it would be appropriate to ask ourselves what the real usefulness of this text is. as the rapporteur has pointed out, the decisionmaking process will be the same. is this act necessary, since several member states are already parties to the convention? it is only indispensable for those who continue to struggle towards this path of transfer of sovereignty, the outcome of which can only be fatal. the european union will have the right to vote in place of the member states. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. the european parliament voted to approve the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). the european union shall have competence to deal with matters covered by this convention. i therefore support this accession, which will enable the european union to play its proper role in environmental protection without encroaching on national sovereignty. the union will thus be able to participate fully in the work to deal with the threats of extinction of species of fauna and flora.
in writing. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is the main global tool to prevent the overexploitation of protected species. the activities of cites, of which the 28 eu member states are members, are already helping to reduce illegal trade in protected natural species, but the hunting of certain species, such as sharks or polar bears, should be subject to even more stringent controls. the european union's accession to the convention is a step forward, as it will now be able to speak with one voice in the negotiations and participate fully in the projects.
in writing. ‒ the majority of member states have already acceded to the convention. the accession of the european union is therefore meaningless, since it would impose on the member states interpretations of the convention different from their own and would ultimately give the illusion of the legitimacy of the executives of the european union and of its justice. i therefore voted against this accession.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this text, which provides for the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. the convention, which came into force in 1975, aims to prevent the risk of extinction of many iconic species such as the tiger and the elephant by regulating trade in endangered animals and plants and their products. today it provides protection for some 35,000 wildlife species that are part of our world heritage. all european states are already parties to this convention, but it was important that the european union, as an international institution, should also lead by example.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague pilar ayuso on the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. the convention has been in force since 1975 and only the member states have been parties to it individually. the report aims to enable the union to become a party to the convention itself. i welcome the wide adoption of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this proposal concerning the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) following the entry into force on 29 november 2013 of the gaborone amendment, which allows any regional economic integration organisation to become a party to cites. in view of the sharp increase in wildlife trafficking worldwide in recent years, it is important that the european union reinforces its role in combating this scourge and takes additional measures, in particular with regard to online trade in products from endangered species.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) for two reasons. firstly, because accession is a new attack on the sovereignty of the member states of the union which have already acceded to the convention: the union will now speak for them in this matter. secondly, because the union, being the prey of all kinds of lobbies, will defend wildlife more than the states.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is a major international instrument to protect endangered species of wild fauna and flora from international trade in specimens of these species. it entered into force in 1975 and now has 178 members (including all the member states of the union). the original text of the convention provided that membership of cites would be limited to states only. therefore, the european union had only an observer status. at the second special meeting of the conference of the parties (1983), it was agreed that regional economic integration organisations of sovereign states could become members of cites. the proposal aims to enable the union to accede to the convention 31 years later. i vote in favour of the union's accession to this convention.
in writing. 178 countries are already part of cites, including all eu member states. with this recommendation we are here asked to authorize the union's accession. the convention, while not perfect, is still useful, provided that it is limited to its primary role, namely the protection of endangered species of wild fauna and flora. it should also be noted that the participating states are legally free to vote in a different direction from that proposed by cites. it is obvious that with the accession of the european union we will see a transfer of voting power, and therefore a new transfer of sovereignty of the member states. finally, if the union were to accede to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, it is very likely that it would not be able to withstand the sirens of the lobbies for long. lobbies that will, for example, press for restrictions or even bans on fishing for certain fish for human consumption, even though the eu alone would have to propose regulations. i voted against this accession, refusing to give the union a blank cheque.
in writing. i believe it is important for the union to accede to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) in order to protect these endangered species, which are still too often the subject of illegal trade, to the best extent possible and to enable the union to pursue its environmental objectives. i voted in favour of this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ all eu member states are parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. the inclusion of the european union is therefore legitimate in this respect and in the context of the union's common commercial policy and environmental policy.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora binds signatory states to international trade principles aimed at better protecting endangered species of wild animals and plants. i voted in favour of this resolution, which gives the european parliament the green light for the european union to ratify this international convention. with this action, the european union is sending a strong signal in favour of protecting biodiversity and is asserting itself as a legal entity in its own right on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ until 2013, only individual states could be parties to the cites convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to allow the european union to become a party to the convention itself.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an international instrument that aims to protect endangered species of fauna and flora. it covers some 35 000 species and ensures that international trade in these species does not threaten their survival. thus, all imports, exports, re-exports... of species covered by the convention are subject to a system of authorization. the convention entered into force in 1975 and now has 178 parties, including all the member states of the union but not the union itself, which until now did not have the capacity to sign such conventions. this has now been done and the european parliament has therefore here approved the union's accession to cites. it remains to be hoped that this accession will enable the european institutions and the member states to express a coherent position on these issues. the desire to achieve concrete results in the negotiations on the fight against biodiversity is very important for the future of the planet, provided that these negotiations are not contradicted by other policies, in particular trade policies. i voted in favour of the report, however, on principle.
in writing. ‒ this cooperation agreement on a global satellite navigation system (gnss) between the eu and morocco is intended to enable the two parties to intensify cooperation and exchange scientific knowledge. morocco wishes to develop the use of satellite radio navigation on its territory and in the surrounding region. it is in the framework of the 2006 agreement and through its participation in the european neighbourhood policy that morocco is requesting to be associated with the new framework programme for research and innovation (horizon 2020). i therefore support purely technical cooperation.
in writing. convinced of the need to cooperate with the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean, i welcome interstate collaborations such as the interesting galileo project, in which morocco has been involved for almost ten years, especially since it is a matter of competing with the american gps.
in writing. this recommendation for a cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the union and morocco is intended to enable the two parties to intensify cooperation and exchange scientific knowledge. morocco wishes to develop the use of satellite radio navigation on its territory and in the surrounding region. it is in the framework of the 2006 agreement and through its participation in the european neighbourhood policy that morocco is requesting to be associated with the new framework programme for research and innovation (horizon 2020). i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation on a cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european union and morocco aims to improve cooperation between the two parties and to enable an exchange of scientific knowledge. morocco is thus seeking to develop the use of satellite radio navigation on its territory and in the surrounding region. it is in the framework of the 2006 agreement and by virtue of its participation in the european neighbourhood policy that morocco wishes to be associated with the new framework programme for research and innovation (horizon 2020). i voted yes.
in writing. i welcome the vote in the european parliament in favour of the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and morocco, on the other. this will enable moroccan and european companies to strengthen industrial cooperation in the space sector, which is already producing results. the adoption of this technology will enable morocco to develop applications addressing the specific problems of the western mediterranean and west africa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation of my colleague jerzy buzek on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement with morocco on satellite navigation. the agreement will promote the establishment of the european gps system, with morocco undertaking to map its territory and neighbouring areas. the recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that parliament has given its approval to the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use with morocco, thus strengthening its already close cooperation with the union. morocco is very active in the european neighbourhood policy, is associated with the framework programme for research and innovation (horizon 2020) and has concluded a scientific and technical cooperation agreement with the union. it will also have to play an important role in the implementation of the prima programme (euro-mediterranean partnership for research and innovation). the agreement voted by parliament on satellite navigation and synchronisation will strengthen joint activities in these important areas for the benefit of citizens, industries and the scientific communities of the union and morocco. this is an example of successful euro-mediterranean industrial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the development of the galileo geolocation system. the union has signed numerous cooperation agreements on this project with other important countries, including china. the point is to conclude a cooperation agreement with morocco. the aim is to enable the egnos system, which improves the accuracy of the galileo signal, to be effective over the largest possible area. however, i regret the delay of 10 years in the galileo project. i also regret the choice, imposed by the commission, of the german company ohb to build the satellites, at the expense of astrium (eads) and thales alenia space, companies which had already proved themselves. finally, i regret the choice made for interoperability with the united states with the gps system in 2004. germany has played a harmful role in this affair, serving the united states and its commercial interests. i vote for it.
in writing. this recommendation on a cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european union and morocco aims to improve cooperation between the two parties and to enable an exchange of scientific knowledge. morocco is thus seeking to develop the use of satellite radio navigation on its territory and in the surrounding region. it is in the framework of the 2006 agreement and by virtue of its participation in the european neighbourhood policy that morocco wishes to be associated with the new framework programme for research and innovation (horizon 2020). i voted yes.
in writing. negotiations between morocco and the union started in 2004. in 2006, the cooperation agreement on a global satellite navigation system between the union and morocco was signed. this agreement must now of course be approved on behalf of the union. i am in favour of cooperation between countries in the field of research and i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which strengthens cooperation between the union and morocco and is in line with our desire to integrate morocco and the maghreb into a large euro-mediterranean region.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is required by this recommendation to decide on the merits of a cooperation agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco on a global satellite navigation system. it turns out that the space industries of the european union and morocco have good contacts, particularly in the framework of the galileo programme. i therefore vote in favour of continuing this cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of the global satellite navigation system with morocco will make it possible to produce a precise map of the moroccan territory and its neighbouring areas. the european union and morocco will mutually benefit from this technology and the data generated from it. i supported this report, which recalls the importance of cooperation between the european union and its neighbours.
in writing. ‒ negotiations between morocco and the eu on the conclusion of an agreement on satellite navigation systems started in 2004. the aim of the agreement is to strengthen cooperation with morocco in the field of satellite navigation. morocco wishes in particular to 'develop the use of satellite radio navigation on its territory and in the surrounding region'; the agreement also relies on "moroccan and european companies which have had industrial cooperation links in the space sector for several years". in view of the continuing and worrying deterioration of the human rights situation in morocco, it would have been appropriate to consider whether it would be appropriate to help the moroccan government develop technologies that could be used, in particular, to monitor its population. but there was no mention of any caution or reservation in this area. i therefore voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the union and ukraine should be voted on in the same way as the previous one and will cover the next five years. the decision will allow the eu and ukraine to 'mutually benefit from scientific and technical progress achieved through research cooperation under their respective specific research programmes and will facilitate the deepening of cooperation'. it is perfectly in line with previous votes, in particular on free trade and the possible integration of ukraine into the union. this agreement again violates the sovereignty of the nation states, which are obliged to cooperate because of the desire of the technocrats in brussels to accelerate the process of europeanization of ukraine and to distance it ever further from its relations with russia. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i am not a priori hostile to scientific cooperation with ukraine, but not under the current conditions.
in writing. this recommendation on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the union and ukraine should be voted on in the same way as the previous one and will cover the next five years. the decision will allow the eu and ukraine to 'mutually benefit from scientific and technical progress achieved through research cooperation under their respective specific research programmes and will facilitate the deepening of cooperation'. it is perfectly in line with previous votes, notably on free trade and the possible integration of ukraine into the union. this agreement again violates the sovereignty of the nation states, which are obliged to cooperate because of the desire of the technocrats in brussels to accelerate the process of europeanization of ukraine and to distance it ever further from its relations with russia. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ we are asked to give our opinion on the renewal (for the same period of five years) of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and ukraine. the agreement will allow the eu and ukraine to 'mutually benefit from scientific and technical progress achieved through research cooperation in the framework of their respective specific research programmes and will facilitate the deepening of cooperation'. it is, of course, a logical continuation of the previous votes on free trade and ukraine's possible accession to the union. this agreement clearly infringes the sovereignty of the member states, which are obliged to cooperate by a decision of the union, a supranational entity. the union is continuing its geopolitical manoeuvres against russia and its attempts to europeanise ukraine. i voted against this text.
in writing. for more than a decade, the european union and ukraine have been engaged in scientific and technological cooperation for the benefit of both partners, in a spirit of mutual benefit, which i would like to encourage to develop. in this sense, the renewal of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement is a positive sign, especially since it is accompanied by the relevant evaluation tools.
in writing. ‒ the renewal of cooperation agreements with ukraine comes at a very tense time, largely due to provocations from outside the european continent, which are being taken up by the european union in the light of the geopolitical balances in eastern europe. in order not to participate in this frenzy and to show my neutrality on the ukrainian question, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation of my colleague jerzy buzek on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with ukraine. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 28 november 2012 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. the recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and ukraine, which expired last november. it will enable the two sides to improve and intensify their scientific and technological cooperation in areas of common interest and to promote the exchange of knowledge and the transfer of skills.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine was signed in copenhagen on 4 july 2002. this agreement, which covers many research areas (environment, transport, agriculture, health, etc.), expired on 7 november 2014. the point here is to renew it in the same terms. in the present context, that is irresponsible. this is a new provocation against russia. it is even encouraging the adventurous government now in place in ukraine, with the participation of neo-nazis and north american agents. i vote against it.
in writing. we are asked to give our opinion on the renewal (for the same period of five years) of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and ukraine. the agreement will allow the eu and ukraine to 'mutually benefit from scientific and technical progress achieved through research cooperation in the framework of their respective specific research programmes and will facilitate the deepening of cooperation'. it is, of course, a logical continuation of the previous votes on free trade and ukraine's possible accession to the union. this agreement clearly infringes the sovereignty of the member states, which are obliged to cooperate by a decision of the union, a supranational entity. the union is continuing its geopolitical manoeuvres against russia and its attempts to europeanise ukraine. i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted against this agreement between the union and ukraine because, although it is of some interest in itself, the external and internal political situation of ukraine does not allow for the development of peaceful, democratic and impartial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the text requires the european parliament to consider renewing the scientific and technological agreement with ukraine. i believe that this cooperation is beneficial for both sides, especially in view of the present situation. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation signed in july 2002 by the eu and ukraine has expired. in theory, therefore, this is simply a renewal of the union-ukraine agreement on cooperation in the field of science and technology. the areas of cooperation concerned are industrial and production technologies, social and information technologies and the training and exchange of scientists. the renewal of such an agreement cannot be assessed independently of the political situation in ukraine and the role played there by the european union, a dangerous role which my group of the european united left - nordic green left has repeatedly denounced, refusing in particular to see in the ukrainian government a paragon of virtue in the field of democracy and justice. i therefore voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ like my colleagues in the national front delegation, i voted against this recommendation. croatia's participation in the european economic area is a further step in this mad race towards enlargement. the less your europe works, the more you want to expand it, hoping that this endless growth will delay the bankruptcy. but the peoples of europe are no longer fooled and there is growing resentment against brussels' centralism. in the interests of the croatian people, i would have wished that they would have escaped from your sprawling monster, your eurocracy, which will surely bring them to their knees, as it has already done with the greek, spanish, irish, portuguese and soon french peoples.
in writing. i do not wish to encourage croatia to become more involved in a system which seems to me doomed to failure under the present conditions.
in writing. the european economic area brings together the eu member states and three efta countries - iceland, norway and liechtenstein - in a single market. this agreement naturally provides for the integration of european legislation concerning the four freedoms of free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. this recommendation is intended to enable croatia, a new european state, to join the eea and it clearly reflects the whole philosophy of the european union, which is aimed at ever greater liberalism and leads to the ruin of the peoples of europe. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european economic area (eea) brings together the eu member states and three efta countries - iceland, norway and liechtenstein - in a single market. the agreement provides for the integration of european legislation concerning the four freedoms of free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. with the adoption of this recommendation, croatia will become a new member state of the union and will participate in the eea. i am firmly opposed to the ultra-liberal dogma and to free and undistorted competition which have led to deindustrialisation and mass unemployment in france, and i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the european economic area was signed in 1992. the agreement creates a free trade area between all eu member states, iceland, liechtenstein and norway. with croatia's accession to the union in 2013, all international agreements, commercial or otherwise, must be extended to this new member state. i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of adapting the european legislative framework to the structural changes taking place within the union.
in writing. following its accession to the european union in 2013, it makes perfect sense to associate croatia with this agreement, which brings together the member states of the european union with iceland, liechtenstein and norway in a single market. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights, and has been active in the field of the protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ the report put to the vote is a continuation of the process of croatia's integration under the auspices of the european union and its submission to free trade organised by the same institutions, which is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague alexander lambsdorff on croatia's participation in the european economic area. in order to take account of the accession of croatia to the union, additional protocols to the economic agreement between the union, iceland, norway and liechtenstein should be drawn up. the recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on croatia's participation in the european economic area. the european economic area establishes a single market to facilitate trade between the member states of the union and three european free trade association states, iceland, liechtenstein and norway. it also provides for the integration of european legislation on the four freedoms in all the countries of the european economic area and governs their cooperation in strategic areas such as research and development, education, social policy and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the european economic area (the eea agreement) was signed on 2 may 1992 and entered into force on 1 january 1994. croatia's participation in the european economic area is a consequence of its accession to the european union. the commission and the council are therefore taking the necessary legal steps to enable croatia to join the eea and three additional free trade protocols one year after accession. i am voting against this text, which is intended to subject the workers of croatia to the neoliberal yoke.
in writing. the european economic area (eea) brings together the eu member states and three efta countries - iceland, norway and liechtenstein - in a single market. the agreement provides for the integration of european legislation concerning the four freedoms of free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. with the adoption of this recommendation, croatia will become a new member state of the union and will participate in the eea. i am firmly opposed to the ultra-liberal dogma and to free and undistorted competition which have led to deindustrialisation and mass unemployment in france, and i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it seems logical to me that croatia, as a member of the union, should also participate in the european economic area, which brings together the countries of the union and the three countries of the european free trade association (efta).
in writing. ‒ the last member state of the european union must be able to benefit fully from its status. i therefore vote in favour of a resolution to include croatia in the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the european economic area (eea) was signed in 1992 and entered into force on 1 january 1994. following the accession of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013, croatia committed itself to become part of the eea, under the conditions laid down in that act. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which allows the republic of croatia to be incorporated into the eea agreement as a contracting party.
in writing. ‒ the sea concession is a tax on goods which affects both imports of goods into the five french overseas departments and production activities within these territories. this tax allows local authorities to benefit from a significant financial contribution (€1 billion) and stimulates the economic development of local products. this local protectionism works well and is tolerated by successive governments, which refuse to apply the same methods at french or european level. the commission proposal for a council decision aims to renew the possibility of applying tax differentials for the period 2015-2020, while providing for a framework for this practice in order to compensate for the disadvantages faced by these remote regions. i voted with the members of the front national in favour of this text, which protects french citizens living abroad.
in writing. the grant de mer, which is a tax on goods, affects both imports of goods into the five french overseas departments and production activities within these territories. this tax allows these communities to benefit from a significant financial contribution (€1 billion) and to stimulate the economic development of local products. a kind of reasoned protectionism, in short, which seems to be working well and does not seem to be a problem for our political leaders, who refuse to apply the same methods at french or european level. the commission proposal for a council decision aims to renew the possibility of applying tax differentials for the period 2015-2020 while regulating this practice, in order also to compensate for the disadvantages faced by these outermost regions. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text. the tax on goods, known as the "concession de mer", affects both imports of goods into the five french doms and production in these territories. this tax finances local authorities and their activities and contributes to local economic development through a differential taxation. the text proposes to renew this scheme for 2015-2020. the special situation of our compatriots overseas is being taken into account.
in writing. ‒ the financing of the french outermost regions is largely dependent on decisions taken in brussels. one issue of particular concern to the ors today is the future of the sea grant regime. the council decision of 10 february 2004 authorising the current scheme for 10 years expired on 1 july 2014. this improves the competitiveness of the local industry, which is suffering from the particular constraints listed in article 349 tfeu: remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, the need to build up larger stocks, the small size of the local market combined with a poorly developed export activity. it is the recognition by the european union of a kind of local economic protectionism. however, this exorbitant system of internal market law is threatened by the european commission, which now sees it as a so-called "situational benefit", when in reality it is the guarantee of the survival of the economic fabric of the overseas regions. as such, it demonstrates by its very existence that the dogma of free trade is an unparalleled threat to the most deprived regions. that is why i voted for the resolution of the parliament approving the maintenance of the tax regime for the granting of maritime concessions in the french outermost regions.
in writing. ‒ france benefits until 31 december 2014 from a special scheme to remove or reduce the 'grant of the sea' tax on several products from the french outermost regions. this measure is intended to help the french outermost regions to cope with the socioeconomic problems they face. this report will allow this special scheme to continue until 2020. i voted for it. i believe that we must help the outermost regions to meet their own needs. these regions face particular constraints, particularly in terms of geographical accessibility. in accordance with the treaty, we must adapt our trade rules to this situation in order to establish fair competition rules.
in writing. under european rules, specific measures can be provided for the outermost regions of the union, including the french overseas departments, to deal with the structural economic and social problems specific to these regions. the european parliament, in supporting the exemption from the 'sea grant' for certain products produced locally in these regions, has listened to their concerns. i have therefore supported this text which is beneficial for these french regions.
in writing. the outermost regions are hard hit by the economic crisis and the labour market situation is particularly alarming, with a very high unemployment rate: 23.8% in guadeloupe, 28.7% in the canary islands, 28.9% in réunion, and an even more worrying youth unemployment rate of up to 60%. it is therefore crucial that the union provides increased support to local producers. the renewal for 2015-2020 of the special regime for the granting of seabed rights in the outermost regions is in line with this. the 'concession de mer' is a tax on goods which affects both imports of goods into the five french overseas departments and production activities within these territories. the tax has the dual objective of financing local authorities (with revenues of almost €1 billion per year) and, through tax differentials, stimulating the economic development of local production. the entry into force of the new decision on 1 january 2015 is of crucial importance both for the continuity of the scheme and for the operation of local businesses.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this text, which in particular promotes the interests of french maritime space and the activities of the outermost territories, in particular the overseas territories. these territories are a power issue for france and for its position in europe and the world.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today by a large majority to extend the sea grant and i welcome this. the "concession de mer" is a tax that has existed since 1670 under the name "concession de poids" created by louis xiv and brings in more than €1 billion to local authorities in the overseas countries. it is a true heir to customs duties and helps to protect local production. declared incompatible with the treaty of rome in the name of the dogma of free movement, this tax was confirmed and then extended at the initiative of a number of political leaders from overseas. we will remain committed to this tax mechanism and defend it by all means, in the european parliament and, eventually, by regaining our fiscal sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the renewal of the sea grant until the end of 2020. in the french outermost regions, this tax on imported products is essential to meet the needs of the communities concerned: it represents almost one billion euros a year. but above all, it is essential to promote the development of local enterprises, via exemptions. the economy of the dom-tom would not survive the disappearance of the maritime concession. the overseas territories are already suffering from the shortage of raw materials, the high cost of energy and the small size of their domestic market: it is our duty not to allow these territories to become even more impoverished and to encourage any measures which will enable their economic and social development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs iskra mihaylova, on the tax regime for 'sea grants' in the french outermost regions. a 2004 decision authorised france to apply exemptions or reductions from the 'grant de mer' tax for several products from the french outermost regions, in order to help them cope with the problems of competitiveness and socioeconomic development they face. the agreement expires at the end of 2014, and the text proposes to renew it until the end of 2020, while proposing a new legal framework for maritime concessions. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this decision which will give the possibility to certain french outermost regions to get rid of a special tax.
in writing. ‒ 'the grant of sea' is an indirect tax applied to the supply and export of goods in the french outermost regions. the purpose of these tax differences is to compensate for the handicaps suffered by the outermost regions. the purpose of this new proposal is to establish the legal framework for the granting of a sea-grant from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020. france is thus authorised to apply exemptions or reductions from the maritime concession to goods listed in an annex and produced locally in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique, mayotte and réunion. the council's proposal falls short of what we were advocating, but it is nevertheless essential to implement it, and i am voting in favour.
in writing. this report concerns the extension of the 'grant de mer' tax in the french outermost regions until the end of 2020. this tax on imported products, worth nearly one billion euros a year, supports the needs of the communities mentioned above and helps their economic and social development. the economy of the french overseas departments and territories would be in even greater difficulty if this tax were to be abolished. it should also be noted that local enterprises are maintained and developed mainly through exemptions. our overseas territories are already suffering from a dependence on raw materials, a limited internal market and high energy costs. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report in order to avoid a worsening of the impoverishment of these french territories.
in writing. i voted in favour of extending the sea grant scheme until 2020 because it allows the economies of the french outermost regions to maintain themselves in a fragile economic and industrial fabric. although the urgency procedure did not allow the regi committee to give an opinion on the merits, the new regime will give the ors the time needed to develop a lasting solution to the economic inequalities existing in these isolated regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because the granting of sea rights is essential: it provides the overseas communities with essential resources and provides strategic support to local productive sectors. with our support, these grants will be extended until 2020. i am therefore happy to vote for the economic and territorial cohesion of europe.
in writing. ‒ the financing of the french outermost regions is largely dependent on decisions taken by brussels. one issue of particular concern to the ors today is the future of the sea grant regime. the council decision of 10 february 2004 authorising the current scheme for 10 years expired on 1 july 2014. the local industry thus sees an improvement in its competitiveness, which is suffering from the particular constraints listed in article 349 tfeu: remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to build up larger stocks, the small size of the local market combined with a poorly developed export activity. it is the recognition by the european union of a kind of local economic protectionism. however, this exorbitant system of internal market law is threatened by the european commission, which now sees in it a so-called situation benefit, when in reality it is the guarantor of the survival of the economic fabric of the overseas regions. as such, it demonstrates by its very existence that the dogma of free trade is an unparalleled threat to the most deprived regions. that is why i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution approving the maintenance of the 'sea grant' tax scheme in the french outermost regions.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur for the epp on this matter, i voted in favour of this report which authorises france to provide for tax adjustments for products originating in its outermost regions in order to protect employment and contribute to local economic and social development. however, i regret that the european parliament had to use the simplified procedure to avoid a legal vacuum (the current regime expires on 31 december 2014) and that some of the regions' requests were not met.
in writing. ‒ the granting of sea rights is a specific feature of the french islands, which, due to their isolation, have many difficulties in promoting commercial development. this tax enables local authorities to meet their needs and stimulate the economic development of local production. i therefore vote in favour of such a measure.
in writing. ‒ the french outermost regions are facing major social and economic challenges, coupled with a significant fall in the competitiveness of their economic sectors. i remain committed to ensuring that our french economic players can return to the path of growth, and it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of this text. several products from these regions will be exempt or benefit from a reduction in the 'grant of the sea' tax until 31 december 2020.
in writing. italy submitted an application to mobilise the egf following the redundancies of 608 workers at whirlpool europe s.r.l., an electrical equipment manufacturing company, and 5 suppliers and downstream producers. the economic and financial crisis has led to a sharp decline in household consumption; the italian market for large household appliances contracted from eur 3,174 billion in 2010 to eur 2,649 billion in 2013, a decrease of 16,5%. moreover, these redundancies will only worsen the unemployment situation in the province of trento, where the unemployment rate has doubled since the beginning of the crisis, from 2,9% in 2007 to 6,1% in 2013 but still remains at a good level. in order to support workers who are victims of the crisis and the unbridled globalisation imposed by brussels, i voted in favour of this point.
in writing. ‒ parliament decided to accept the request from italy for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the employees of whirlpool, which is severely affected by the employment consequences of globalisation. the financial and economic crisis has had very serious consequences for the manufacture of electrical equipment in europe. more than 600 redundant employees will benefit from training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. the aid amount is eur 1,89 million. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. the vote on this text will substantially improve the support for the return to work of more than 600 italian employees who were made redundant by whirlpool europe. the budgetary resources released under the european globalisation adjustment fund will make it possible to provide them with counselling and guidance services, vocational training and various allowances, including mobility allowances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague daniele viotti on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of whirlpool europe in italy. the fund will provide eur 1.89 million to 608 redundant whirlpool employees to finance training, counselling or start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request by italy to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in relation to redundancies at whirlpool europe and five of its suppliers and producers. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid of eur 1 890 000.
in writing. ‒ as i had already done in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted again in favour of the viotti report to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 608 redundant workers at whirlpool (italy). the egf will finance up to 60% (eur 1 800 000 for a total cost of eur 3 100 000) of projects consisting mainly of counselling, guidance, support, skills assessment, general training, retraining and vocational training measures and advice on setting up a business. in the face of mass unemployment and the effects of globalisation, the egf is once again proving to be an effective and lasting tool for supporting the victims of the successive crises that have hit the countries of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation fund is playing its destructive role. instead of helping workers, it encourages shareholders and states to embrace the social irresponsibility of capitalism. the relocation assistance fund is helping the north american appliance giant whirlpool. in early 2014, when the swedish site closed and the italian site was to be strengthened, the managers announced that a "small part" would be relocated to the united states because "the current structure of production is no longer competitive". this has turned into a vast layoff plan and the italian state is asking to save those who are still on the hook, after having killed domestic consumption itself with its austerity policies. the company's lies are thus rewarded as whirlpool can lay off workers without worrying about the terms of their redeployment. in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. the italian authorities are requesting a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 1 890 000 to help the conversion of the 608 employees made redundant by whirlpool europe s.r.l. and 5 downstream suppliers and producers (economic sector classified in division 27 manufacture of electrical equipment). since 2009, the economy in the european union and more particularly in the eurozone has been in a sharp decline, with the ultra-liberal economic system set up by brussels and imposed on the member states being the main cause of the collapse of our industries and the social breakdown in europe. the italian economy is suffocating: while the italian gdp growth rate was still positive in 2011 at + 0.4%, it has since gone negative (- 2.4% in 2012 and 1.9% in 2013). household consumption decreased considerably, as the recession had a clear impact on the choices and priorities of italian consumers (decisions to buy durable goods, household appliances were postponed). between 2008 and 2012, the 5 main manufacturers of household appliances in italy (electrolux, indesit, whirlpool europe, frank and antonio merloni) recorded a significant decrease in their production. it should also be noted that ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. i support programmes implementing the european globalisation adjustment fund, particularly in countries heavily affected by the financial crisis, in this case italy. it is inconceivable for europe not to guarantee security for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of relocations or increased competition from newly emerging countries. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has led whirlpool to lay off more than 600 employees in italy. the use of a european globalisation adjustment fund should therefore be used to provide the best possible support for dismissed employees in their search for a new job and for the creation of a business.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted by a large majority the report by daniele viotti calling for the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of €1,890 million for 502 redundant employees at whirlpool and 106 at five of its suppliers and downstream producers. austerity policies have led to a contraction in household consumption, particularly in the durable goods sector. the whirlpool europe group has reportedly accumulated losses and, we are told, 'developed a business plan to adapt its production structure to the market'. today, two of the group's sites are closing, and this "in spite" of the investments, the content of which is not specified. the group, the world's leading manufacturer of household appliances, bought indesit this year, but then abandoned its relocation. indesit threatened to reduce its workforce by a third and the purchase of 60% of its capital by the american giant was presented as a savior for these employees. these recent layoffs reveal the sad reality of the capitalist strategies of these global giants. i reject the use of european public funds to finance such practices because it actually encourages them rather than trying to stop them. i therefore voted against.
in writing. poland submitted the application for the financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 1 079 workers, 829 at fiat auto poland and 250 at 21 suppliers and downstream producers, 777 of whom are expected to participate in the egf measures, due to the decline in production at the fiat auto poland s.a. plant in tychy, silesia. the egf will mobilise eur 1 259 610 for the following purposes: this sad fact is only the result of austerity and the eu's total opening of its borders, which have caused the production but also the sales volume of new cars in the union to fall to its lowest level. in addition, this will have a negative impact on the region as the redundant workers represent 10% of the unemployed in the silesia region. i therefore voted for this text to help these workers.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of the redundant employees of fiat auto poland. the aid amount is eur 1,26 million. more than 1 000 redundant employees will benefit from training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. the european automobile industry is in a difficult period. european car production is declining compared with rising world production. the mobilisation of the egf was therefore fully justified and necessary. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. the automobile sector is a sector of the economy particularly affected by the economic crisis, as we are reminded by this text which proposes to help 777 dismissed employees who previously worked in the automobile industry in poland. with the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, these employees will be able to benefit in particular from targeted support and training increasing their chances of finding a job quickly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jan olbrycht on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for workers made redundant by fiat in poland. the fund will provide eur 1.26 million for 1 079 employees made redundant by fiat, to finance training, consultancy services and start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request by poland to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of redundancies at fiat auto poland s.a. and at 21 of its suppliers and manufacturers. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to eur 1 259 610.
in writing. ‒ as i had already done in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted again in favour of the olbrycht report to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 777 redundant employees of fiat (poland). the egf will finance up to 50% (eur 1 259 610 for a total cost of eur 2 506 220) of projects consisting mainly of general training measures, entrepreneurship training, internship grants, the introduction of subsidies for self-employment and measures to encourage recruitment.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation fund is working to destroy jobs. it encourages shareholders and states in the social irresponsibility of capitalism. the claim concerns polish workers affected by the 829 redundancies at fiat's tychy production site and 250 redundancies at 21 suppliers and downstream producers. the fiat panda was originally assembled in italy. the second generation was relocated to poland, leaving the campania region in misery. now that fiat has taken advantage of the low polish wages, it has returned to italy by lowering italian labour law and creating many layoffs in poland. fiat has thus been a real blackmailer of the italian trade unions, asking them to join a 'special' collective agreement, requiring in particular more night shifts, a reduction in break times and an increase in compulsory overtime. i vote against.
in writing. poland is requesting co-financing (50%) of eur 1 259 610 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help the conversion of 829 workers made redundant by fiat auto poland and 250 other workers made redundant by 21 suppliers and downstream producers. ultraliberalism, imposed by brussels, has led to deindustrialisation and mass unemployment throughout the european union and more particularly in the eurozone. without the restoration of national frontiers and the application of a reasonable protectionism, the countries with low production costs will therefore continue to have completely unfair competition in the automobile industry as in other sectors. french car manufacturers are the first to suffer. it should be recalled that while world car production increased by 5.3% between 2001 and 2012, it fell by 7% in the eu over the same period. i voted in favour of this request, even though i believe that the european union is largely responsible for this economic and social collapse.
in writing. i support in principle the programmes implementing the european globalisation adjustment fund but considering, in this particular case, that the redundancies in question allow fiat to return to italy after having relocated for the first time to poland, while imposing considerably lowered working conditions, i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the level of car sales continues to fall in the european union. there have been many layoffs in recent years. i therefore vote in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund for the conversion and creation of new businesses for the redundant employees of the fiat company in poland.
in writing. ‒ this report allows the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund for 777 of the 829 workers made redundant at the fiat site in tychy, poland, as well as 250 others made redundant by subcontractors. it follows the decision of the fiat group to relocate production to italy, at the pomigliano d'arco plant. italian workers, who were placed in technical unemployment as a result of the shutdown of half the alfa romeo range, had to accept major setbacks in their working conditions in order for fiat to relocate its activities to italy. in spite of the agreements in the sector, a specific collective agreement ratified willingly or unwillingly by the majority of the unions allows for more night shifts, a reduction in break times, penalties for absenteeism and an increase in compulsory overtime. since this fund was mobilised when fiat had relocated these activities to poland, it is clear that the purpose is to finance the consequences of social dumping within the union and that this encourages relocation operations by transferring a large part of their cost to european finances. it is these multinationals who pay for their social welfare. they can afford it. i therefore vote systematically against these anti-social measures.
in writing. greece submitted the request following the dismissal of 551 workers from odyssefs fokas s.a., a company operating in the retail sector, located in particular in the regions of attica and central macedonia, where the unemployment rate is already above the national average (27%). this is mainly due to the increasing austerity imposed in the eu and more particularly in greece by the troika and the financial markets. the amount of the egf contribution is to be eur 6.444 million and nearly 500 unemployed young people will also benefit from training under this scheme. i voted in favour of this fund in view of the difficult economic and social situation in greece.
in writing. ‒ parliament decided to accept the request from greece for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the employees of odyssefs fokas, a company which has been severely affected by the employment consequences of globalisation. the aid amount is eur 6,4 million. more than 600 redundant employees will benefit from training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. since 2008, and the onset of the banking and financial crisis, greece has been experiencing a very difficult economic and social situation. the high level of unemployment leads to a decline in purchasing power, which has a strong impact on the retail trade sector. this is why the vote in favour of this text for the release of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is important. it will give the 600 greek employees laid off by odyssefs fokas the tools they need to reintegrate quickly into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague monika vana on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of odyssefs fokas in greece. the fund will provide eur 6.4 million for 600 redundant odyssefs employees to finance training, advisory services and start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by greece concerning redundancies in odyssefs fokas. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid, which amounts to over eur 6 400 000.
in writing. ‒ as i had already done in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted again in favour of the vana report to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 600 employees, 500 of them young, who were made redundant by odyssefs fokas (greece). the egf will finance up to 60% (eur 6 444 000 for a total cost of eur 10 740 000) of projects consisting mainly of training, guidance, job-search and training allowances and mobility aids.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation fund is playing its destructive role. the claim relates to 1 100 greek workers, 551 of whom were made redundant by the odyssef fokas retail company and 500 young people who were unemployed and untrained. the greek government has correctly analysed that this was due to the fall in household disposable income due to higher taxes, lower wages (both in the public and private sectors) and higher unemployment , with a consequent sharp fall in purchasing power. but of course he is not proposing an alternative policy to austerity. i abstain in order not to deprive the greek workers of this fund.
in writing. this report concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help greece, which is facing massive redundancies in the retail trade sector (except cars and motorcycles). eur 6 444 000 will be allocated from the egf for the conversion of 600 employees made redundant by odyssefs fokas s.a. the economic, financial and social situation in greece has been tense for years and the austerity measures demanded by brussels have only made the situation worse. some 23 percent of greeks lived below the poverty line in 2012. since 2008, unemployment in greece has exploded by +20.6 percentage points and household consumption has fallen by 32.3 percentage points. greece's gdp per capita is at its lowest and the gap with that of the european union has widened. moreover, for the 6th consecutive year (2008-2013), the greek economy is in recession. in view of this situation, greek consumers have made a profound change in their habits and have consequently reduced their expenditure, in particular the budget spent on clothing (clothing and footwear). for all these reasons, i voted for this aid.
in writing. i support programmes implementing the european globalisation adjustment fund, particularly in countries heavily affected by the financial crisis, in this case greece. it is inconceivable for europe not to guarantee security for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of relocations or increased competition from newly emerging countries. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has severely affected households' purchasing power, with direct effects on some products, notably retail sales. as in the case of the redundancies at odyssefs fokas, unemployment must be curbed, in particular, by measures for the conversion and creation of new enterprises, for which the globalisation adjustment fund will be of valuable assistance. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. france has submitted an application to mobilise the egf in order to obtain a financial contribution from the egf following 5 213 redundancies (of which 3 886 persons are expected to participate in the measures) at air france. the contribution will be eur 25 937 813, which is the largest request in terms of amounts requested since the establishment of the egf. these redundancies are directly linked to globalisation and the decline in the union's market share in air transport, notably in the face of the dramatic growth of 3 large persian gulf airlines, a trend exacerbated by the global financial and economic crisis. after the closure of psa in aulnay, it is air france that is laying off workers and this is exacerbating unemployment in île-de-france, which is why i voted in favour of this request in order to protect and help our workers to train for reintegration.
in writing. ‒ the deregulation of the air transport sector, which was planned, encouraged and financed by the european union, is now destroying jobs in france, particularly in the midi-pyrénées region. air france has laid off 3 886 workers for whom it is claiming the benefit of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the latter would provide €25.9 million, or 50% co-financing. i am in favour of this text, whose beneficiaries are fellow countrymen, victims of the madness of brussels.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the dismissed employees of air france. the aid amounted to more than eur 25 million. more than 5 000 redundant employees will benefit from training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. air france has been forced to lay off several employees because of increased competition in global air traffic. i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the egf. it is important, in these times of crisis, to help citizens who are suffering from some of the negative consequences of globalisation on employment. this is a great demonstration of solidarity between european countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, but regret the inertia of the system, due to the burdensome investigation and decision-making procedures. i think it would be wise if we could implement this aid as a precaution to avoid facing the irreparable.
in writing. the île-de-france region is facing a particularly difficult employment situation. it is undergoing massive social plans affecting large companies. after voting in favour of european aid for the dismissed employees of psa, i strongly supported the text on personalised services, which was financed by just over €25 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the financing will benefit some 3 886 redundant employees of air france, a company with its headquarters in roissy, île-de-france. the service offer, which has been intelligently developed with the social partners and which i welcome, will enable the employees to be more mobile, better trained or to try the adventure of setting up a business.
in writing. i gave my full support to the activation of eur 25.9 million in aid to the 3 886 redundant employees of air france, the regions of île-de-france, midi-pyrénées and provence-alpes-côte d'azur, under the european globalisation adjustment fund. this amount is intended to support the financing of measures to alleviate the human and social consequences of job loss and to enable the support of these people in their second working life through vocational training and counselling services, redeployment allowances and mobility allowances. this decision illustrates the principle of solidarity on which the european project is based: the aid is in fact intended to support a european airline air france which, like others, is affected by aggressive extra-community competition on the passenger air market, accentuated by the rise in fuel prices.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the wave of restructuring, europe has responded by providing financial support to the 3 886 employees of air france who were made redundant due to the structural difficulties the company has been facing in recent years. i am glad that we can offer a more lenient future to all those people who find themselves unemployed overnight. with the european globalisation adjustment fund, these former employees will be able to benefit from redundancy leave, mobility allowances and training and career guidance. it is not a christmas present, but i hope that these aids will at least, for a while, bring some relief and hope.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marco zanni on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of air france. the fund will provide eur 26 million for 3 886 redundant employees of air france to finance training, counselling and start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by france concerning redundancies at air france in 2013 due to strong competition from persian gulf airlines. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to over eur 25 900 000 for 3 886 workers made redundant.
in writing. ‒ as i had already done in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted again in favour of the zanni report to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 3 886 former employees of air france (mainly roissy). the egf will finance up to 50% (eur 25 937 813 for a total cost of eur 51 875 626) of projects consisting mainly of the distribution of redundancy allowances and the establishment of support for finding a new job, setting up a business or starting up a training course. i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted this european aid, which i have been able to devote myself to.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of aid for the redundant employees of air france. for example, some €25 million will be paid to france under the european globalisation adjustment fund. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support workers made redundant, mainly in regions and sectors that have been disadvantaged by the opening up of the global economy. it consists of an annual allocation for the retraining and reintegration of workers and is a concrete example of the financial solidarity of the european union. today it is france and former employees of a french company who will benefit from this european fund. in all, 3 889 employees were made redundant at air france and, thanks to training, retraining and business start-up programmes financed by europe, will have more assets to re-enter the labour market quickly or to create a new activity. i should also like to add that some of the people concerned by this european globalisation adjustment fund are residents of my constituency, since three french regions are concerned, including the île-de-france.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a globalisation adjustment fund (gef) to mitigate the effects of relocations and the crisis. the request to mobilise the fund concerns former employees of air france who lost their jobs as a result of the 'transform 2015' restructuring plan. for 3 886 former employees, €25 million, the largest mobilisation of this fund, is used to finance training, aid for the creation of businesses and allowances for redeployment leave which go beyond the legal obligations. as a member of the committee on social affairs, i have to give an opinion on every single application from the egf, including this one. in this review i contacted air france trade unionists to ensure that these funds advanced by air france were indeed received by the employees and that they did not allow air france to evade its social responsibilities. i also asked the company's management for precise information on the scope of the programmes implemented, the number of people involved and their quality before i made my decision. i have voted in favour of this additional aid because the analysis provided the necessary guarantees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the vote allocates eur 25 937 813 to air france, a decision in favour of the interests of the workers.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation fund encourages shareholders and states to be socially irresponsible under capitalism. the request concerns the 3 886 licences for the air france roissy site in île-de-france, for a total amount of eur 25.9 million, the largest request for a globalisation fund. the report gives no justification for such a layoff plan, except for some vague considerations: "according to the french authorities, the growth of the long-haul fleet of three major airlines in the persian gulf region was unexpected and spectacular". the solution recommended by the french state is to encourage redundant workers, the majority of whom are over 55 years old, to set up their own businesses. what cynicism! i vote against this request for a severance bonus.
in writing. france is requesting financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) of eur 25 937 813 to enable the reintegration of 3 886 workers made redundant by air france. it should be noted that this is the largest aid in terms of amount since the creation of the egf. the air transport sector in france is in a bad way and is being affected by the free and undistorted competition and deregulation imposed by brussels. the european union's market share in air transport has been steadily declining in recent years, due in particular to the rise of three major persian gulf airlines. the commission notes that the psa group's sales volume in the union is estimated at around eur [...] million. it is clear that the european union is being totally cynical here, since its ultra-liberal monetary policy has a direct impact on the disastrous economic and social situation we are experiencing. i voted for this report, however, in order not to penalize the people who have been made redundant.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following the events that air france has had to face. in 2013, air france laid off 5 213 employees as a result of the disruption in the global air market caused by the rapid and unexpected growth of long-haul flights to and from the gulf countries. i fully support the measures taken in this report, following the request of the french authorities to provide workers with rapid assistance, namely: counselling and vocational guidance services, training aids, aid for the creation of businesses and support for retraining. unfortunately, the negative impact of this redundancy is felt within the company, but also at regional level, in île-de-france, but also in the paca region, languedoc-roussillon, corsica and the dom. i fully agree with the proposals made to support this great french company, now and in the long term, and to help our european citizens to recover from this dismissal.
in writing. the case of the air france application is certainly the largest amount envisaged for the european globalisation adjustment fund. the 3 886 air france workers who have lost their jobs because of increased competition from emerging countries and low-cost airlines with discounted working conditions deserve european help to find an alternative.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text: 25 million euros will be released to help the 5 213 people who have been dismissed from air france. the competition from outside the community directly affects the large european groups and, consequently, their employees. i am here to give my full support to this type of dossier which is geared towards solidarity and employment among europeans.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of using the globalisation adjustment fund to provide financial assistance to 3 886 dismissed air france workers to help them reconvert or set up businesses. solidarity is a fundamental value of our union, and the fund is here to demonstrate this.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for air france. of course, progress must be made in the management of this fund, particularly in terms of its visibility to public opinion or the monitoring of the workers concerned by the measures financed. nevertheless, in these difficult times, i think the gef is a valuable tool. the budget allocated to air france, of almost €26 million, will only be used to reimburse 'positive' measures to reintegrate the company into the labour market, such as vocational training or project development assistance (not repatriation or early retirement). it is also an example of europe's concern for social issues. unfortunately, the only way in which the commission can intervene in this area is by giving money, since only the member states can issue binding standards. this is leading to a lot of disagreements within the union today, which the citizens are tired of. the fight for greater social convergence must continue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to provide financial and professional assistance to the 3 886 air france workers who were made redundant between 1 july 2013 and 31 october 2013 (the majority of them were based in roissy). the amount of assistance provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund will be over eur 25 million and will be provided through the transform 2015 project. the various measures financed will provide support for the reintegration of former employees into the labour market. these actions will take the form of measures for counselling and vocational guidance services, training, business start-up bonuses and redeployment leave allowances. as a long-time supporter of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i voted in favour of this text because europe must be close to its citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted by a large majority the marco zanni report calling for the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of €25.9 million (a record since the fund's launch!) for 3 886 employees made redundant at air france. the majority of these employees are between 55 and 64 years old and will therefore have great difficulty in finding a job again. these redundancies are part of a massive social plan (more than 8 000 job cuts by 2015, or 10% of the airline's workforce), even though both european and global air traffic is increasing (3.8% in europe in 2013) and 38% of global air traffic is in europe. i have always considered that large companies could (and should) find ways of financing their redundancy plans other than by using public funds and a fortiori european funds which, in this case, only "accompanies" social plans without any added value and therefore endorses these social plans and their job-destroying logic, especially since it is primarily a matter of encouraging the creation of companies and therefore ultimately leaving the employees who have been dismissed to fend for themselves. so i again rejected that logic by voting against.
in writing. the srb is the cornerstone of the single resolution mechanism, which will soon be responsible for implementing the dismantling of distressed banks. the institution will be able to rely on a range of instruments, including a resolution fund being set up and new rules on the hierarchy of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. the single resolution board (srb) is the cornerstone of the single resolution mechanism (srm) which will soon be tasked with implementing the dismantling of 'banks in distress' through various instruments, including the bank-supported single resolution fund. the srm will apply to banks covered by the ssm, which makes the european central bank (ecb) the central supervisor of banking institutions in the euro area (approximately 6 000 banks). the mru will react in cases where a bank should fail despite its enhanced supervision. it will be based on a council of six members, which we must approve here. we are aware of the need to prevent the failure of banks, but we are still opposed to the loss of sovereignty of the member states through these mechanisms, which is why i voted against this report and these appointments.
in writing. the srb is the cornerstone of the single resolution mechanism, which will soon be tasked with implementing the dismantling of distressed banks. the institution will be able to rely on a range of instruments, including a resolution fund being set up and new rules on the hierarchy of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. the srb is the cornerstone of the single resolution mechanism, which will soon be tasked with implementing the dismantling of distressed banks. the institution will be able to rely on a range of instruments, including a resolution fund being set up and new rules on the hierarchy of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. the single resolution board (srb) is the cornerstone of the single resolution mechanism (srm) which will soon be tasked with implementing the dismantling of 'banks in distress' through various instruments, including the bank-supported single resolution fund. the srm will apply to banks covered by the ssm, which makes the european central bank (ecb) the central supervisor of banking institutions in the euro area (approximately 6 000 banks). the mru will respond in cases where a bank should fail despite ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. ‒ rejecting the single resolution mechanism and its banking union, which are part of financial socialism and do not seem to be able to address the shortcomings of the banking system in europe, i opposed the nomination of the candidates nominated to the single resolution board for reasons of consistency and with the firm conviction that this board has neither the means nor the legitimacy to perform its duties.
in writing. ‒ the members of the single resolution board will have the overwhelming responsibility to decide, in the event of a banking crisis, whether to trigger the resolution mechanism provided for in the second pillar of the banking union. they can decide to bankrupt a bank, split it up into several entities, and decide to set up the mechanism that can go as far as dispossessing savers of their savings to pay for the banks' mistakes. the personalities presented for the post come from the world of banking supervision, which has so far failed to prevent and anticipate risks. although the french candidate was precise and rather convincing in his answers, the single-list vote forces a negative opinion on this issue.
in writing. ‒ the single resolution mechanism (srm) which will enter into force on 1 january 2015 should allow for the recovery or reorganisation of banks that are likely to fail. in this context, the single resolution board (srb) is responsible for putting in place a recovery plan for the institution either through internal recapitalisation or through external capital injections from the european stability mechanism (esm), or from the states or the ecb. the troika is thus established as the ultimate saviour of the european banking sector. candidates for the cru have the job profile: the german elke könig, who is aiming for the presidency, is currently director of the german financial markets authority, the finn timo löyttyniemi is director of pension funds, the dutch joanne kellermann is president of the central bank of the netherlands... this mechanism will not change the speculative practices that feed the crises: it is preparing to deal with the effects of the next one with those who usually produce them. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the successive crises that the european union has experienced have demonstrated the need for a banking supervision system adapted to the specificities of the euro. i therefore vote in favour of the appointment of this single resolution council so that it can as quickly as possible take up the important task entrusted to it.
mr president, you have decided to go into politics - which is good news - and i am grateful to you for that! yes, europe must refocus on the essentials and it is high time. the main thing is, of course, first of all the economic and social aspects. your investment plan is going in the right direction. but we need to go further, put a timetable on the table for tax harmonisation, create a truly stable environment for business and finally move towards economic governance of the euro area. the other major priority is that europe regains the capacity to respond to the world's big questions, in terms of climate, common immigration policy, real foreign and defence policies. we see the state of the world today and the danger that is in it, especially with what has happened in pakistan, which we are all thinking about at this moment. so let us focus on these two big areas and these two big priorities, and let us move forward for five years. we can change the situation and show our fellow citizens that europe is a real added value for them, if europe really decides to exist.
mr president, mr timmermans, sometimes it is good to go back to the basics and to know why we are here. we are here first and foremost to bring together the european project, the project of a civilization which has always sought that balance between the quality of life and the ability of the greatest number of us and citizens to be able to earn it. the power of initiative, which belongs to the commission alone, gives you a very special responsibility, that of giving priority to the general european interest, namely to seek constantly a balance between the social, the environmental and the economic. by directly affecting, through the issues of air quality, the circular economy and, for example, the work of pregnant women, you would undermine this balance and the european social contract. there is still time to review the situation and to take back this general interest on your own account.
mr president, mr president juncker, mr first vice-president timmermans, we are of course aware of your desire to concentrate on a few major objectives and priorities, to refocus the work of the european commission on the essentials. on behalf of the french delegation to the epp group, i would like to stress what we french meps in the epp group would consider to be two major priorities: a common european policy on asylum and immigration and a common european energy strategy. we attach particular importance to substantial progress on these two priorities in 2015. as the epp coordinator on the committee on women's rights, i would like to mention two important issues. the first concerns one of the epp group's priorities, the draft directive on women on boards. we would urge the european commission to exert as much influence as possible on the negotiations currently under way in the council to bring about the draft directive on the greater representation of women on the boards of large listed companies, known as women on boards. we in the european parliament had voted for a reasonable and balanced compromise, and the epp group had made a major contribution to it. we hope that this series will be completed in 2015. we have also heard you correctly on the draft directive on maternity leave. i think you are moving in a clear, realistic and reasonable way. we have taken note of the idea of considering withdrawal if no substantial moves or initiatives are made within six months. we will nevertheless take care that there is no retreat in the cause of women in general in the coming months, in view of the next lines of work of the european commission.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr vice-president, the luxleaks case has been like that and, fortunately, you are today committing yourselves to taxation in the country where the profit is made. this is the announcement effect of your presentation today, of your work programme, but we need to shed more light on how you are going to progress on this path which is, for us, absolutely essential that is why we applauded you. in the same spirit, we also expect initiatives to make country-by-country reporting a reality. it's an old claim on this house. we think it is even more relevant today, but we have heard nothing about it. the second thing we feared was the so-called better regulation, because we understood that it could be used not to abolish cumbersome procedures but to remove from the commission's agenda texts that are not to the liking of industry - this was clearly the case with regard to air pollution or the circular economy - or the member states - and this is clearly the case with the text on maternity leave. you have announced new prospects today, including a resumption of work on the circular economy. we would like to understand a little better what you have in mind, to make sure that it is a commitment to work together on this absolutely major arrangement, particularly if we want to make the paris conference next year a success. finally, you mentioned - in passing - the revision of the copyright directive and, again, we want to be sure that this will help to keep this european creative industry alive, and not just satisfy the appetites of a few transatlantic multinationals.
president of the council. mr president, members of the european parliament, vice-president georgieva, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to address today's plenary session for the debate on the political agreement reached on 8 december by the council and the european parliament on the budget of the european union for 2015 and on the package of amending budgets for 2014. the council formalised its agreement on 12 december and we look forward with confidence to the outcome of the european parliament's vote scheduled for tomorrow. as you know, the agreement was reached in a particularly complex negotiating context because of the many issues we had to deal with. i believe that this year there have never been so many amending budgets to be approved and i also believe that we have never had to deal with such a high level of unpaid invoices from the european union. this has led to an intense debate at the end of which we have agreed, also in agreement with the commission, to embark on a process which will enable us to bring the european union's debt to more acceptable and sustainable levels in the coming years. there were different views on how to reduce the level of non-payment and late payment and i think we have finally found a good compromise. i am therefore sure that the european parliament will also agree that the allocation of an additional eur 3.5 billion from the 2014 budget is an important achievement for the functioning of the european union, since it puts an end to the growth in the stock of invoices to be paid and at the same time lays the foundations for its gradual absorption in the years to come. specifically, the total amount for 2015 is made up of eur 2 818 million, by activating the contingency margin, eur 361 million resulting from the use of the margins available against the expenditure ceilings in the 2014 budget and a further eur 350 million relating to the so-called special instruments which are added to the contingency margin, postponing to a later stage an agreement between our institutions as to whether or not they are included in the expenditure ceiling. i believe that this amount is a fair balance between the public financial constraints on the member states and the financial needs of the european union for the implementation of its spending programmes. as regards the 2015 budget of the european union, a total of eur 145,3 billion is foreseen in commitment appropriations, +1,8% compared to the 2014 amended budget, eur 141,2 billion in payment appropriations, +1,6% compared to the 2014 amended budget. the amount of the appropriations thus identified allows for sufficient margins below the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 to allow the european union to have sufficient room for manoeuvre to react to any unforeseen event. i am convinced that in this respect the 2015 budget will provide the necessary resources for the smart and effective implementation of the new programmes, given that this is the second annual budget under the new financial framework 2014-2020. just to give a few examples, i would like to highlight the payments for heading 1a (competitiveness for growth and jobs), where resources are allocated to research, training and small and medium-sized enterprises, which show an increase of 33% to eur 3.9 billion compared to the 2014 budget including the adjustments granted. the budget for the european union's external policy also saw a significant increase in payment appropriations, amounting to some 8.5%. other increases include additional resources allocated to external border control and migration flows, and to the newly established financial supervisory agencies. as regards agricultural policy, the requests of the operators in the sector affected by the russian embargo of agricultural products from the european union have been accepted, who will receive additional support financed by the higher earmarked revenues, without therefore affecting the reserve for agricultural crises, which will remain available for any additional needs that may occur during 2015. i believe that these results should also be assessed in the light of the extremely tight timetable we have had at our disposal for defining the budget of the european union for the coming year. following the failure to reach agreement in the conciliation procedure on 17 november, the commission presented a new draft budget for 2015 and on 28 november proposed a new compromise on the outstanding amending budgets for 2014. nevertheless, we managed to reach an agreement on 8 december in time to allow it to be adopted before the end of the year and thus to avoid the use of the provisional twelfths at the beginning of 2015. the negotiations were therefore very intense and the agreement reached is a very positive sign of the ability of our two institutions to find the necessary intensity in the interests of our citizens. i would like to express once again my satisfaction with the results achieved and i thank all the parties involved in the negotiations. i would like to thank in particular president arthuis and the three rapporteurs, mr gardiazabal, mr hohlmeier and mr deprez, who have been deeply involved in the negotiations, taking a constructive and cooperative approach when necessary. i would also like to thank vice-president georgieva and her team for their very impartial facilitation of the successful conclusion of the negotiations. i would like to conclude by expressing my conviction that the agreement reached with parliament is a perfectly coherent response to the three crucial challenges facing us next year: continue to reduce the backlog of unpaid invoices, not to undermine the efforts made by member states to consolidate national finances and to provide the necessary resources and incentives to promote economic growth and the creation of new jobs with benefits for all european citizens.
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you for the opportunity to address parliament before tomorrow’s vote on the draft amending budgets for 2014, the budget for 2015, and also on the opinion on the amendment to regulation no. 1150/200. i think we can all agree here that these have been particularly difficult negotiations. this is the first year of the new mff. we have put into practice what has been designed for the mff for the first time. it was also a time when we had to find ways to stabilise the level of unpaid bills, and it is happening when many of our member states are facing very difficult fiscal situations at home, but we are all working very hard to find the pathway to an agreement. i want to thank both branches of the budgetary authority for coming up with a sound budget that provides continuity and predictability but, more important than anything else, it sends a signal to our citizens that despite differences and difficulties, we can come up with a solution that serves them. it is oriented towards their needs. thank you very much to the chair jean arthuis for his leading role in the negotiations; to the rapporteurs ms gardiazabal and ms hohlmeier, and mr deprez, and also of course my former commissioner colleague mr lewandowski now sitting here, for all he has done in his previous occupation to help us to come to this agreement. i also want to thank the italian presidency. minister padoan came to us at a very critical moment. many of you have worked tirelessly throughout this process, and now we have a solution that i hope will be voted through tomorrow because it is a very good outcome of the negotiations. of course we in the commission believe that what we put forward as regional proposals were sound, but we can live with what we have now and it is, as many of you have already said, crucial for us to serve our programmes and to serve our people. let me first say a couple of words about the 2014 draft amending budgets. this is a particularly tough year from the budgetary standpoint because we simultaneously face pressure for payments for the last programming period, bills that are coming in the last year, and the adjustment to a tighter budget envelope for the new mff, and finding an agreement on the additional needs for 2014 through the amending budgets, and in particular through amending budget 3 – dab 3 – the mobilisation of the contingency margin and making good use of the windfall of revenues from fines. this was paramount for the successful outcome of the budgetary procedure, and i would say that it also paved the way for a decision on the 2015 budget. we have heard the assessment on the numbers. let me just add three brief points: firstly, we are also benefiting from some redeployments and transfers of appropriations to 2015 of a programme that has not moved sufficiently this year. that allows the total amount of money for reinforcement for paying bills due to go up to eur 4.25 billion. of those, eur 400 million are for heading 1a, eur 2.85 billion for the backlog of cohesion policy in heading 1b and eur 750 million for reinforcing the international programmes to help us to help people around the world in desperate situations. on the 2015 budget, let me outline what we believe is particularly valuable in the agreement. first it is focused on investments in our core policy priorities. it underpins what we have to do to strengthen the competitiveness of europe and of course underpins the eur 350 billion investment plan that we have presented. secondly, vis-à-vis the 2014 budget, we have a modest step up but it is sufficient to help us adjust to the two pressure points i spoke about. for commitments the increase is 1.8% – eur 2.6 billion – and for payments the increase is 1.6%, which translates into eur 2.2 billion. that allows us eur 3.9 billion more for heading 1a and eur 581 million more for heading 4 where the pressures on europe are so strong. as the presidency mentioned, we managed to meet the needs of our farmers affected by the russian ban and by falling price levels in the milk and meat markets without tapping into the crisis reserve. we also have – and this is a very important point to recognise – a healthy development on the ratio between commitments and payments. for 2014 and 2015, as a result of what we have done, this ratio is 97% vis-à-vis an average of 89% in previous years, 2009 being 83% for example. what does that mean? that means that it will be easier to get on top of the issue of the ral that is going too far and too fast for our budget comfort. we are very pleased with the demand from parliament, which was accepted by the council, to have a payment plan, because this would lead us towards sustainability and i can inform you already that the latvian presidency – the forthcoming presidency – is taking this task very seriously. i met with the minister of finance and also with the minister of foreign affairs who will be the front minister for the presidency in the next six months. the payment plan is for us to bring to an end what we have been experiencing this year in terms of unpaid bills. our discussions in the coming months will also touch upon the issue of special instruments. in these negotiations we have agreed to disagree and leave the issue open. we placed eur 350 million in special instruments above the ceiling for 2014 but with an understanding that this is not the final call, so we have to engage in discussing it and hopefully bring it to a final call. we, as you all know, in this period of time had to deal with the issue of exceptionally a large gni adjustment, eur 9.5 billion in adjustments, that had come as a surprise to some of our member states. we have a very limited proposal for an amendment to address this issue and i want to inform you that eight member states are opting for deferred payments as provided by the amendment. given that, i hope parliament tomorrow will provide an opinion on it and it will be a positive opinion. let me conclude with three points. firstly, we have a budget and now we have to make the best use of the money we have. this for us in the commission is a top priority to focus on results, on the quality of spending. secondly, we, in the midst of negotiations, had a meeting of the high level group on own resources – i am very honoured to be one of the three commissioners now added to this group, which has very critical work which it has to continue to deliver on. and last but not least, we in the commission – you heard it in the new work programme – are very determined to drive towards this alignment of priorities and budget so we can show our citizens that the european union delivers where it matters the most to them.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, allow me first of all to thank our rapporteurs, mrs gardiazabal rubial, mrs hohlmeier and mr deprez, to thank mrs georgieva, and to thank the italian presidency, in particular ambassador sannino. we are on the eve of the vote on our budget. i would like to express regret and hope. my regret is with regard to the way our budgetary procedure has unfolded. during the three weeks of conciliation, apart from the italian secretary of state, we were unable to have any contact with government officials. the 28 meps who were mobilised had no minister to answer them. it was not until the twenty-first day, the last day of conciliation, that the council finally informed us of its proposals, which unfortunately are unacceptable. the accumulation of unpaid invoices on the commission's desk is close to 30 billion. this serious drift is causing difficulties for many operators and is damaging the authority and credibility of the european union. i would like to denounce the council's paradoxical attitude. in 2014, the european union benefited from unforeseen resources of up to eur 5 billion, generated by fines and interest on late payments. parliament wanted to allocate them to paying the most urgent bills. it's a basic principle of good management. but we have been faced with the council's refusal. i was astonished at the autism of national governments who refuse to meet their obligations when they have accepted credit commitments. in the absence of our negotiations, the ministers are trying to make themselves look like good managers by refusing to pay what they owe us. do they need to be reminded that the payment is just a mechanical consequence of their previous decisions? in any case, what we were asking for could at best have the effect of stabilizing european debt. whereas in 2014 we expected 4.7 billion euros, we got 3.5 billion. for 2015, we expected 2.3 billion euros, we got 1.3 billion. that's a total of 4.8 billion euros instead of 7 billion. it is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the amounts we have agreed on do not solve the problem. but what gives me hope is the commitment on both sides to implement a procedure for clearing the hidden debt of unpaid invoices. the first step is to know precisely what that amount is as of 31 december 2014 and to agree on what can be considered as a reasonable and sustainable amount. the clearance shall cover the difference between the two and shall be settled as soon as possible. that is to say, should the meeting scheduled for 2016 to review the multiannual financial framework involve us from the beginning of 2015.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteurs for their work, to underline the commitment of president arthuis and also to underline the consensus that has emerged within our committee to get the council to make progress. but we must admit that these advances are timid, that they were obtained at the end of the road and that they do not definitively solve the problem of unpaid debts since we will find ourselves, in 2015, with the same deficit of 26 billion euros. we must therefore start discussions with the european council now in order to find a solution for the years ahead. we know that the main disbursements will take place in 2018 - since they concern cohesion programmes and disbursements will come at that time - and that if we do not find a solution today, we will eventually find ourselves in a situation which will become unmanageable. finally, i would ask the council to find solutions on own resources which would help to solve the problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of what i would call a chaotic budgetary procedure, in which parliament was caught between the refusal of some member states to assume their budgetary responsibilities and a commission prepared to accept compromises on the down side, i would like to warn the european union again against the risk of non-payment for the beneficiaries of european structural funds in our respective territories. the fact that payment appropriations are not adjusted to the level of commitment appropriations means that the gap is widening year by year and the stock of unpaid appropriations is increasing. the credibility of the union itself is at stake. however, this agreement on the 2015 budget and the 2014 amending budgets was necessary. we should have done it and we did it; i would therefore like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs who have made it possible to achieve this result. but i hope that changes in the future. our predecessors in this house fought for the introduction in 2016 of a clause for the revision of the mff, in order to raise the budgetary ambitions of the european union, which will allow us to meet the expectations of the european citizens. i believe that this will be an opportunity to lead the fight for a genuine european tax system. i would say today that the 'i want my money back' system will not lead to a europe of solidarity. we must now find resources specific to the european union, which will prevent us from having to face the budgetary crisis, particularly the payment crisis, every time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of refugees fleeing the war in syria is indeed alarming, whether in turkey, jordan or lebanon. i would like to draw your attention in particular to the situation of syrian christian refugees in lebanon, particularly in zahle in the bekaa plain. these refugees arrived from the provinces of homs and hama at the beginning of the unrest, in particular to escape persecution by armed islamist groups who looted and burned their homes, and who shouted: "christians in beirut, alawites in the grave". yet they cannot be granted refugee status because the un requires them to sign a declaration that they are fleeing persecution by the syrian government, something that no christian would do. on the other hand, armed terrorist groups which have taken refuge with their weapons in the bekaa following the securing of homs province are enjoying refugee status and the financial benefits that come with it. it is time for member states to ask the un to stop this unacceptable discrimination against christian syrian refugees.
in writing. the world food programme has had to announce the suspension of its delivery of food stamps to over 1.7 million syrian refugees. this suspension will endanger the health and safety of these populations and may lead to further tensions in the host countries. in lebanon, the unhcr currently counts more than one million syrian refugees, the largest concentration of refugees in recent history when compared to the lebanese population. the arrival of this population has had a devastating impact on the political, economic and social stability of the country. it has also led to a continuous deterioration in peace and security among the population, with an alarming increase in attacks on refugees, while daesh is on the country's borders and poses a constant threat. in the face of this chaotic situation, the union had to provide assistance. i welcome the commission's decision on 4 december to grant a €180 million aid package to deal with the effects of this crisis, of which €73 million will go to lebanon, with priority funding for access to care and education for vulnerable populations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if moldova is suffering economically today, which no one denies, it is suffering the consequences of the same strategy and denial of its identity that ukraine has suffered from the union. by forcing moldova to choose a side - western europe, or the side of the west and nato - as you did with ukraine, by making untenable promises, you are weakening its population economically and politically. by choosing to unilaterally adopt sanctions against russia, you are encouraging it to respond. stop this policy, and there will be no need to intervene to mitigate its effects. to divide europe and create a new east-west divide, to prepare for war and play into the hands of the united states and nato, is to be anti-european.
in writing. terrorism and organised crime are a growing threat to europe. the challenges are real and of a new scale, far beyond the borders of our continent. the response to these risks must be european, global and forward-looking. the european union and its member states have a responsibility to enable european citizens to live in peace and security. the rapid increase in the number of european fighters joining the ranks of terrorist organisations in syria and iraq is an undeniable danger to our security and affects europe at its core. this worrying phenomenon of radicalisation calls for the mobilisation of all our energies and the pooling of our financial and operational skills. respect for the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights must be the guiding principles of the eu's new internal security strategy. the balance between preventive and enforcement measures is essential in this respect, in particular to ensure respect for citizens' privacy and the protection of their personal data. freedom, security and justice are and must remain inseparable.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr weber, you are asking for equal treatment for all and i am in full support of that. in that case, what do you do about the demands for reform that could be made in the countries you know best, for example, on sunday work, women's work or the fight against poverty? what is your answer to mario draghi's question on the question of aggregate demand in the member states, and in particular the capacity of those with surpluses to meet this demand which is so lacking at european level?
mr president, i will be addressing the council, as many others have done. this summit is indeed crucial for the economic recovery of europe and i hope that the member states are aware of this. the people of europe are tired of suffering and of not believing in the future. the council's statement today seems particularly bland and very frivolous. it is true that the council has accustomed us to disappointment after disappointment, simply because of the lack of ambition, which allows us to go forward, and the spirit of solidarity that is absolutely necessary within the european union. it's not the time to procrastinate, it's the time to act. the heads of state and government must give outspoken and massive political support to the juncker commission's strategic investment plan. the tools are on the table. it is now our duty to implement them as quickly as possible. but don't be foolish! indeed, there can be no sustainable growth without economic and monetary stability. this investment plan, which is not based on debt but on the stimulation of private capital, is well adapted to the reality of the economic situation. the commission and the council will have to be adamant about respecting the stability and growth pact, because real growth will only come if the member states finally have the courage to carry out the necessary structural reforms. those who do not resolve to do so will have to take responsibility before their people. the time when europe took on the lack of courage of national governments is over. this investment plan is therefore only the first act of the european recovery; i welcome the new approach which guides the commission's work programme and which is more focused, more concentrated, less bureaucratic. it must be a way to make us successful. because success will only come if we restore trust. in the case of the transatlantic agreements, i really hope that europe will show itself strong, so as not to be marginalized by the new orientation of the united states towards asia. the situation in ukraine is serious and we must support it, but it is equally important that we do not rely on the stick alone in our diplomatic relations with russia, our great and indispensable partner. well, we don't have time for half measures anymore. i would remind you that it is absolutely essential that we reach clear and ambitious conclusions. i echo the conclusion of president juncker: 'we shall see what the member states' responsibilities are'!
madam president, i would like to speak about the ebola epidemic and the current assistance provided by the european union in this area. experts say the epidemic is linked to deforestation, poor health care systems and political instability in the area. the european union has deployed 1.1 billion euros in humanitarian aid to fight ebola, of which 434 million euros comes from the european commission, which is a very good thing. it took a while, but it happened! the ministers signed on 12 december economic partnership agreements with the acp countries, which are problematic. the reason is that until now the european union has applied unilateral trade preferences to these countries, especially to its former colonies. it accepted that they should continue to impose customs duties on their imports from the european union, while allowing them free access to the european market. it now requires them to abolish their customs duties on 80% of european exports. it is a shame that these countries need a budget to finance infrastructure, but will no longer have the necessary funds because of the imposition of new customs duties. how are they gonna do that?
madam president, i would like to address the italian presidency to mobilize and raise awareness of the challenge of the digital economy. we can all imagine that this will be one of the main ways in which the investment plan can increase value creation in the european union, and we welcome this. but it can only be a success if the fruits of these investments are returned to the europeans. the articulation of this investment plan in the digital sector and the taxation issue on which we base our ability to tax the profits of the gafa is an absolutely critical point, which you must raise in the european council. in the same way, you must make progress on data protection, otherwise we will also see a leakage of knowledge and capital which we do not want to finance. finally, i would like to address the presidency of the commission, because in this council you will be helping to draw up the road map for the future of the euro area. and when i listen to manfred weber, i worry about it. i do not think that by stigmatising each other and calling each other names like birds we will make progress in the euro area, which is what everyone needs. it must define our interdependencies and solidarities, taking into account what economists around the world recognize as our shortcomings, including by building a collective capacity to respond to problems that cannot be corrected by the tools we have today in the framework of economic and monetary union.
madam president, when you are a small child you believe in santa claus and when you are a big child you believe in the juncker plan. this juncker plan - 21 petty billions of funds, an obviously ridiculous sum when compared with the 13 000 billion of gdp of the european union - which you yourself call the 'plan of last chance', should, in your opinion, attract 294 billion euros of private investment. how? we don't know much about it. it is very likely that these private investments will not finance public projects, which by definition are less profitable. the reality is that your recovery plan is a communication plan. the reality is the figures, and in particular the figures for greece. it's very topical, so i'll remind you of these figures, especially to those who give lessons in morality, there, far back, sitting quietly in their little chair. greece saw a 27.4% reduction in civil servants between 2009 and 2013, with 10,000 fewer hospital beds over the same period. the average income there has fallen by 35% between 2009 and 2013, the minimum wage is now 586 euros and 489 euros for those under 25. in 2014, there were 25.7% unemployed and 49.8% unemployed under 25 years old, while public debt was 174% of gdp. so, yes, gentlemen, congratulations on this result! this result is your economic policy! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, as usual, madam, you are full of shit, and this is clearly a full-time job. if we have taken out a loan from a russian bank - as you know - it is because we are prevented from financing ourselves with french banks, perhaps because they are at your service, madam, or that of your party, and they are fighting against those who are not their friends, of which you are a part, each other, since the essence of your policy is to improve the situation of banks and financial markets. the essence of our policy is precisely to defend the peoples against these great carnivores.
madam president, mr juncker, mr president of the council, we have heard, since a short while ago, from mr weber and mr lambsdorff that france must carry out structural reforms. i hope they understand that focusing on this point only serves to make mrs le pen smile. that is the result of this continuous discourse today. but i would like to speak on the substance, and ask the following questions. we are now seeing a deflationary trend in europe and the world. is there not a profound link between liberal structural reforms, which are designed to bring down the cost of labour and often labour incomes, and this deflation? is there not a link today with the wait-and-see attitude of private investors, who know that there is little public investment, but above all little probable consumption at the root, and that this obviously does not reassure anyone? mr juncker, is there not a contradiction between the plan you are presenting - particularly as regards public investment, which should be a guarantee for private investment - and this call for structural reforms, which today reassures neither the markets nor investors?
president of the committee on budgets (alde). mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the vote that has just taken place, because in a particularly difficult situation we are giving the union the budget it needs. i would like to thank all those who contributed to the trilogue agreement: the italian presidency, the vice-president of the commission, mrs georgieva, our rapporteurs and the members of the committee on budgets and each and every one of you, ladies and gentlemen. finally, i would also like to thank the president of the european parliament, since it was on his behalf that i chaired the delegation to the conciliation. this vote gives rise to three grounds for optimism and confidence. first, the debt settlement plan will be launched at the beginning of 2015, in view of the revision of the multiannual financial framework. it is a question of preserving the credit and authority of the european union. then we are anxiously awaiting the amending budget which will pave the way for the 315 billion investment plan. finally, pending the conclusions of the high-level group chaired by mario monti on own resources, the committee on budgets will ensure that each of our expenditure has a genuine european added value and is a guarantee of competitiveness, growth and employment. merry christmas to you! (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. insofar as these trade preferences seem to me to be dictated mainly by geopolitical considerations which are contrary to our economic interests, i am opposed to them.
in writing. in june, the european union and the republic of moldova signed an association agreement including a trade component and, in particular, a free trade area. at a time when the eu and russia are undergoing geopolitical tensions, this agreement does nothing to improve the situation. worse, it should allow moldova to avoid russian repercussions by opening our european market to moldovan agricultural products, thus accentuating a little more the difficulties of european producers, especially french ones, already subject to unfair competition from many other countries. the commission is asking for an amendment to the autonomous trade preferences regulation to introduce three new tariff quotas with zero duty for fresh apples (40 000 tonnes), table grapes and plums (10 000 tonnes each). in addition to this regulation, it is now clear that the eu is slowly preparing for the possible accession of moldova to the eu and i therefore voted against the introduction of trade preferences for certain fruits from moldova.
in writing. on 27 june 2014, the european union and the republic of moldova signed an association agreement including the establishment of a free trade area and the implementation of autonomous trade preferences. this policy of economic integration is aimed in particular at preparing moldova for membership of the european union and is not without geopolitical ulterior motives against russia, moldova's main economic partner. the commission has therefore proposed to amend the autonomous trade preferences regulation to introduce three new tariff quotas at zero duty for fresh apples (40 000 tonnes), table grapes and plums (10 000 tonnes each). these quotas will be in direct competition with french and european products, which are already having difficulty finding outlets since the imposition of sanctions by russia against eu agricultural products. that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution approving the commission's proposal.
in writing. under the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership and association agreement, it is proposed to amend the regulation introducing autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova to include three new zero-duty tariff quotas for fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums. the introduction of an autonomous trade preference system will have the advantage of both encouraging the ongoing reform movement in agriculture in moldova and improving our trade relations without this liberalization having an impact on the markets of the main fresh fruit producing countries directly affected by the russian embargo.
in writing. in retaliation for moldova's rapprochement with the european union, russia has imposed an embargo on imports of moldovan products. it was therefore the responsibility of the european union to make a gesture of solidarity to our eastern neighbour. the lifting of eu customs duties on moldovan apples, grapes and plums will help to offset some of the negative effects of the embargo on the economy of moldova, where 10% of the population works in the agricultural sector. these three products will have better opportunities on the european market. this will not be to the detriment of european farmers and horticulturists, since moldovan production represents less than 1% of european production.
in writing. the increase in the quotas for certain fruit benefiting from tariff preferences is unacceptable in a context of economic and agricultural crisis in france and europe. i voted against this text, which reinforces the ultra-liberal and free-trade frenzy of the european union, in defiance of french and european farmers. the commission has not verified that the rules laid down in the previous agreements have been complied with, although compliance with these rules is a condition for maintaining these preferences.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sorin moisa on the autonomous trade preferences for moldova. following the eu-moldova association agreement adopted last june, russia has applied economic sanctions against the moldovan agricultural sector. in view of these difficulties, the report proposes to temporarily increase its market access for moldovan agricultural products. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. in june 2014, the eu and moldova signed an association agreement. negotiated as part of the eastern partnership, this agreement is only aimed at weakening russia. it obviously contains a trade pillar which will lead to the creation of a 'deep and comprehensive free trade area' with the european union, as a result of this agreement, russia imposed an embargo on moldovan agricultural products. russia is moldova's usual economic partner, and this has seriously destabilised the economy of moldova. the commission is therefore proposing the introduction of three new tariff quotas (tqs) with zero duty for fresh apples (40 000 tonnes), fresh table grapes and fresh plums (10 000 tonnes for each type of product). it would be better to stop the provocations against russia which are the cause of these measures. i vote against it.
in writing. the european union and the republic of moldova signed an association agreement on 27 june on the establishment of a free trade area and the application of autonomous trade preferences. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union. this is a membership which fits perfectly into the geopolitical maneuvers of the european union against russia, which has until recently been moldova's main economic partner. the commission has therefore proposed to amend the autonomous trade preferences regulation to introduce three new tariff quotas with zero duty for fresh apples (40 000 tonnes), plums and table grapes (10 000 tonnes each). these volumes will undoubtedly be a source of direct competition for french and european producers, already heavily battered by the russian embargo. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which endorses a more favourable regime in agricultural trade with moldova, which is heavily affected by the russian embargo. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the met/it claim.
in writing. on 27 june 2014, the european union and the republic of moldova signed an association agreement including the establishment of a free trade area and the implementation of autonomous trade preferences. this policy of economic integration is aimed in particular at preparing moldova for membership of the european union and is not without geopolitical ulterior motives against russia, moldova's main economic partner. the commission has therefore proposed to amend the autonomous trade preferences regulation to introduce three new tariff quotas at zero duty for fresh apples (40 000 tonnes), table grapes and plums (10 000 tonnes each). these quotas will be in direct competition with french and european products, which are already having difficulty finding outlets since the imposition of sanctions by russia against eu agricultural products. that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution approving the commission's proposal.
in writing. following moldova's decision to move closer to the european union, russia, its largest trading partner, decided to suspend imports of fruit. nevertheless, it represents the majority of the country's economy. i am therefore in favour of a measure allowing the liberalisation of certain products, since the european market can easily absorb such imports and the instability of the region is a growing concern.
in writing. negotiations for ecuador's accession to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru have recently been completed. pending the entry into force of the agreement, a proposal was adopted guaranteeing that the customs duties applied will not increase. however, after investigation, it is interesting to note that ecuador has trade barriers in its internal market. for my country alone, france, the trade balance for 2013 with ecuador is in deficit of more than eur 200 million. i therefore believe that any negotiations with ecuador which do not respect the rules on tariff preferences should be immediately suspended and i have therefore voted against this agreement.
in writing. i voted against this text. the latter is part of the free trade logic which i can only condemn. the european commission is proposing a draft regulation to ensure that trade preferences are maintained in ecuador pending ecuador's accession to the free trade agreement (fta). this text is objectionable in its very principle, as well as in its effects, in particular, for france d'outre-mer.
in writing. the european union and ecuador have just concluded negotiations on the conclusion of an accession free trade agreement with peru and colombia, which is already in force. pending the entry into force of that agreement, the commission adopted on 1 october 2014 a proposal ensuring that the customs duties applied will not increase. the commission notes that the export price of the product concerned to ecuador was established on the basis of the price undercutting calculations. as a result, the trade balance for france is in deficit of eur 221 million for 2013. it therefore seems inconsistent to conclude trade liberalization agreements when the guarantees of opening the ecuadorian market are not met. the european union is not the only country to have a policy of unbridled globalisation. that is why i voted against this agreement on the tariff treatment of goods originating in ecuador.
in writing. during the trade negotiations for ecuador's accession to the trade agreement between the european union (eu) on the one hand and colombia and peru on the other, ecuador has made efforts which, in my opinion, merit these temporary provisions pending the approval procedure of the eu-ecuador trade agreement. these measures are designed to maintain the current levels of customs duties applied to products imported from ecuador. this transitional arrangement will enable the ecuadorian economy to be competitive with other latin american importers.
in writing. the text to be voted on is an additional piece in the system of unlimited free trade that the european union is feeding. i voted against this report which calls for alignment with the commission's position.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague helmut scholz on the tariff treatment of goods originating in ecuador. the report aims to establish a transitional process allowing for the continuity of trade between ecuador and the eu between the end of the gsp+ regime and the entry into force of the trade agreement with the eu. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. negotiations with ecuador for its accession to the trade agreement between the union, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, were concluded on 17 july 2014. however, following an amendment to the corresponding european regulation, ecuador should lose its status under the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp+) as of 1 january 2015. the commission proposed a regulation to grant ecuador trade preferences similar to those enjoyed under the gsp+ for the next two years (1 january 2015 to 31 december 2016), until the entry into force of the free trade agreement. i am firmly opposed to any free trade agreement, especially since ecuador, through its participation in alba, was promoting an alternative to neoliberal integration. i'm not going to do it.
in writing. after peru and colombia, the european union has just concluded a free trade accession agreement with ecuador. pending the entry into force of the agreement, the commission approved on 1 october a proposal to ensure that the customs duties in force were not increased. the commission notes that the export tax on the export of the product concerned to ecuador was imposed by the ecuadorian authorities on the basis of the export tax on the export of the product concerned to ecuador. the trade balance for france is in deficit of eur 221 million for 2013. it is therefore surreal to pursue agreements on market liberalization when we have no guarantee that the ecuadorian market will be open. this agreement goes a little further in the direction of the most savage globalisation. for all these reasons, i voted against, of course.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which provides for a transitional period until the full application of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement concluded between the eu, colombia and peru, allowing ecuadorian economic operators to avoid unfavourable customs duties.
in writing. the european union and ecuador have just concluded negotiations on the conclusion of an accession free trade agreement with peru and colombia, which is already in force. pending the entry into force of that agreement, the commission adopted on 1 october 2014 a proposal ensuring that the customs duties applied will not increase. the commission notes that the export price of the product concerned to ecuador was established on the basis of the price undercutting calculations. as a result, the trade balance for france is in deficit of eur 221 million for 2013. it therefore seems inconsistent to conclude trade liberalization agreements when the guarantees of opening the ecuadorian market are not met. the european union is not the only country to have a policy of unbridled globalisation. that is why i voted against this agreement on the tariff treatment of goods originating in ecuador.
in writing. trade negotiations between the european union and ecuador were concluded on 14 july and the agreement is currently awaiting ratification; in parallel, due to the increase in ecuador's annual per capita income, ecuador will no longer be able to benefit from the generalized system of preferences gsp+ as of 1 january 2015. i therefore supported the european commission's proposal and this report so that ecuador can continue to benefit from the trade preferences it currently enjoys until the free trade agreement comes into force. the aim is to avoid any disruption of trade and to provide legal stability for european and ecuadorian companies.
in writing. supporting the extension of the eu's tariff preferences for a country like ecuador should not be a problem, but why not do the same for other countries in the south whose situation is even more difficult? how can we not see this as a counterpart to its signature of the free trade agreement signed by chile and peru? ecuador has reportedly been under heavy pressure from the eu and its neighbours. he may not be the least well-equipped to resist. however, the ecuadorian government decides to exploit the yasumi oil at the expense of one of the most beautiful areas of the amazon rainforest and the rights of the indigenous peoples who live there, and to amend its constitution to allow the cultivation of gmos. the debate in ecuador is intense and some see it as a change in economic direction by rafael correa, away from the alternative model supported by latin american governments and concerned with the issues of sustainable development and "buen vivir". but this government cannot be accused of pursuing purely neoliberal policies. it has achieved impressive results such as improving the country's infrastructure and providing the vast majority of the population with access to health and education. i have therefore chosen to abstain on this report by my german colleague, helmut scholz, gue/ngl.
in writing. at the end of 2014, the european union is forced to mobilise a contingency margin in view of the payment appropriations committed and the remaining unpaid invoices. i would like to recall that the implementation of the mff 2014-2020 started with some eur 23,4 billion of unpaid invoices in arrears at the end of 2013 and with a volume of commitments remaining to be settled (ral) amounting to eur 221,7 billion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore voted against this request.
in writing. the financial and budgetary situation of the european union is such that it is now forced to use the contingency margin at the end of the year to cover the payment appropriations committed in 2014 and part of the unpaid invoices. of course, this will not solve the structural problem of the unpaid but will weaken the financial instruments for relief. in view of these alarming facts, i voted against.
in writing. at the end of 2013, the implementation of the multiannual financial framework was already experiencing very large payment arrears. for example, these amounted to some eur 23.4 billion for cohesion policy alone. the text adopted provides urgent answers to this situation through the use of flexibility mechanisms, including the margin for unforeseen circumstances. the mobilisation of this instrument will make it possible to finance certain programmes such as erasmus+ or the youth employment initiative, but it leaves the problem of the shortage of payment appropriations without a lasting solution.
in writing. the management of the european budget continues to deteriorate in terms of arrears. there are 23 billion unpaid accumulated since 2010 on cohesion policies alone. the 2014-2020 budget is lower than the previous period, and the commitments already made by the union under its policies will further increase the level of arrears. this situation cannot be resolved without a comprehensive overhaul of this budgetary framework. but the commission and the council prefer to use ever more complex devices to circumvent this crisis situation without resolving it. the mobilisation of the 'margin for contingencies' is a perfect example of this. while the increase in arrears was perfectly foreseeable, it is proposed here to use the "margin for contingencies" to make a few additional payments which represent drops in the abyss of arrears. the cost of the real unforeseen, social or ecological, which can only be financed with delay. i disapprove of this worsening mismanagement and i vote against it.
in writing. the financial and budgetary situation of the european union is such that it is now forced to use the contingency margin at the end of the year to cover the payment appropriations committed in 2014 and part of the outstanding unpaid invoices. of course, this mobilization does not solve the structural problem of unpaid debts and will not prevent the formation of a "snowball effect". in view of these alarming facts, i voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i support the mobilisation of additional resources from the contingency margin, so that eu money remains available for the year 2015, and thus make the best use of the instruments of the european budget.
in writing. the 2015 budget does not resolve all the accumulated outstanding payments from previous years. nevertheless, efforts to curb the union's debt should be welcomed. i am therefore in favour of a measure allowing the redeployment of contingency margins from 2014 and of certain revenues of the union to balance its budget.
in writing. i supported this text on the use of the 'contingency margin'. the commission is proposing to increase the payments by more than eur 4 billion compared with the initial budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. this draft amending budget no 3/2014 originally presented by the commission proposed an increase in the forecast revenue from fines and penalties and other revenue of around eur 1,568 billion and an increase in payment appropriations of eur 4,738 billion. this does not change the issue of the payment appropriations which remain significant and the liabilities remaining in liquider (ral) and the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2014 will not be sufficient to counter the recurring 'snowball' effect of the unpaid. i therefore voted against this amendment which only supports a debt which is constantly growing.
in writing. i voted against this draft amending budget no 3/2014, which will of course not solve the structural difficulties of the current and future budgets of the european union. the european union should change its currency and replace its 'united in diversity' with a 'give me your watch, i'll give you the time!' it is trying to convince the member states that they will have to give less in the years ahead. how can we believe such nonsense when we know that the eu will have to spend more and more to cover its unpaid bills, a debt that does not speak its name and to finance its 220 billion commitments that remain to be fulfilled.
in writing. the adoption of this text provides a temporary solution to the recurrent budgetary problems facing the community budget. while i am pleased that the payment appropriations for a series of budget lines have been increased in the 2014 budget to a maximum of eur 4 246 million, of which eur 3 168 million will be mobilised from the contingency margin in 2014, these measures will not be enough to stem the phenomenon of unpaid invoices in the european union.
in writing. an hour before the vote, the text was still not available in my language! this shows how much value is attached to the votes of the members of the european parliament. the commission is not interested in our votes anyway, as we have seen in the 2015 budget, which we rejected without amendments. in those circumstances, i voted against.
in writing. i voted against this draft amending budget no 3/2014 which will of course not solve the structural difficulties of the current and future budgets of the european union. the european union should change its motto and replace its "unity in diversity" with "give me your watch, i'll tell you the time!" it is trying to convince the member states that they will have to give less in the years ahead. how can we believe such nonsense when we know that the eu will have to spend more and more to cover its unpaid bills, a debt that does not speak its name and to finance its 220 billion commitments that have yet to be fulfilled?
in writing. i abstained on this draft amending budget because, although it allows for the financing of a small part of research programmes or the reimbursement of some beneficiaries of european funds, i regret that the member states have preferred to reduce their commitments towards europe just to avoid increasing their national debt. this amending budget does nothing to resolve the critical general budgetary situation, nor does it put an end to the snowball effect of the accumulation of arrears.
in writing. negotiations on the 2014 and 2015 budgets were concluded on 8 december 2014. and among these agreements, the council took account of parliament's concern about the amount of arrears. i therefore welcome such a measure to allow for an extension of more than eur 4 billion from the 2014 eu budget.
in writing. the european parliament and the council reached agreement on an overall draft including the new draft budget for 2015 and the outstanding draft amending budgets (dabs) for 2014. it therefore includes the revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources (tor, i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and for the vat and gni bases. it also includes the amount of uk corrections and their financing, which have the effect of altering the compensation between member states. finally, it includes forecasts for other revenue, including fines. i therefore voted against this amending budget.
in writing. the european parliament and the council reached agreement on an overall draft including the new draft budget for 2015 and the outstanding draft amending budgets (dabs) for 2014. it therefore includes the revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources (tor, i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) and for the vat and gni bases. it also includes the amount of uk corrections and their financing, which have the effect of altering the compensation between member states. finally, it includes forecasts for other revenue, including fines. i therefore voted against this amending budget.
in writing. this draft amending budget no 4 takes account of the decrease in own resources but at the same time budgetises the additional revenue from fines and late payments in the amount of eur 2.433 billion, reducing the member states' contribution accordingly. it should also be noted that this amending budget redirects appropriations for payments for humanitarian aid for 2014.
in writing. as every year, the eu multiplies the corrective budgets (9 in 2013) without succeeding in correcting its delicate budgetary situation. due to the historic contraction of the 2014 budget (down by 10 billion, or minus 6%) the arrears continue to accumulate without being able to finance any new priority. this amending budget allows for the entry of new exceptional revenue from fines collected by the eu. but far from the budget being increased to reduce the number of unpaid debts, this resource is offset by a reduction in the contributions normally due by the states. this new austerity is aberrant because the amount of fines is by definition unstable. europe is sinking into short-sighted mismanagement. having already voted against the 2014 budget in november 2013, i am voting against this amending budget, which is as artificial as it is ridiculous.
in writing. the council, the commission and the european parliament finally reached agreement on the draft general budget of the european union for 2015 and the latest 'package' of amending budgets (pabs) for 2014. among the amending budgets, item 4 includes the revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources (tor) (customs duties and sugar levies), vat bases and gross national income (gni) of the member states. this amending budget also takes account of the amount of the uk corrections and the way they are financed, which will have a direct impact on the distribution of the member states' contributions. this pbr 4 also contains forecasts for other revenue and in particular fines. i have of course voted against this draft amending budget no 4 on the grounds that i am opposed to any transfer of national sovereignty, budgetary or otherwise.
in writing. i abstained on this draft amending budget because, although it allows for the financing of a small part of research programmes or the reimbursement of some beneficiaries of european funds, i regret that the member states have preferred to reduce their commitments towards europe just to avoid increasing their national debt. this amending budget does nothing to resolve the critical general budgetary situation, nor does it put an end to the snowball effect of the accumulation of arrears.
in writing. draft amending budget no 6 provides for a reduction in the budget appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries, totalling eur 76.3 million in commitment appropriations and eur 6.2 million in payment appropriations. at the same time, the rdp provides for an increase in the budgetary appropriations for the european ombudsman to the amount of eur 93 500. this draft amending budget is again badly drafted and will result in a reduction in the appropriations for the fisheries sector, which is facing very serious difficulties. moreover, there is no way of estimating the amount of the decline in the share of gni for france. finally, how can we seriously envisage a general reduction in the gni contribution of the member states when the european union is facing a serious crisis of payments? these cosmetic measures will in no way resolve the budgetary crisis facing the union. that is why i have decided to vote against pbr no 6/2014.
in writing. the text gives the european parliament the power to approve the revision of certain budget lines for 2014, including the inclusion of fines and the revision of the uk contribution to the eu budget. i am in favour of such a measure.
in writing. the mobilisation of this eu solidarity fund in favour of italy (sardinia), which was hit by floods in november 2013, greece (cephalonia), which was hit by an earthquake, slovenia, which was hit by ice storms, and croatia, which was hit by the same ice storms followed by floods in late january/early february 2014, is vital. it will bring about eur 47 million to these regions and that is why i voted for this mobilisation.
in writing. while we do not agree with the union's cohesion policy and believe that it does not help to reduce economic and social disparities between member states, we believe that the principle of european solidarity can make sense when one of our european neighbours is seriously affected by a natural disaster. the climate events that have struck the south of france in recent months give us the confidence that mutual financial assistance should make it possible to respond better to the human, material and financial consequences of this type of tragic event. the common management of natural hazards should be encouraged at european level in order to strengthen risk pooling. that is why i voted for the mobilisation of this solidarity fund.
in writing. various types of natural disasters (floods, earthquakes and hailstorms) caused considerable damage in italy in november 2013, in greece, slovenia and croatia in late january/early february 2014. the solidarity fund enables the european union to provide effective assistance to a member state or an acceding country when it is faced with damage caused by a major natural disaster. it is proposed that the fund should be mobilised for italy to the tune of eur 16 310 467, for greece to the tune of eur 3 683 320, for slovenia to the tune of eur 18 388 478 and for croatia to the tune of eur 8 616 263. in the name of european solidarity with the member states of the union and the acceding countries and their people who are experiencing a period of great difficulty, i voted in favour of this financial support.
in writing. italy, greece, slovenia and croatia were hit by natural disasters in 2013 and 2014. heavy rains hit croatia, slovenia and italy, while an earthquake hit greece. in the face of these dramatic situations, the support of the european union is welcome. with more than €46 million mobilised through the solidarity fund, this aid will help meet the needs of the affected populations and rehabilitate the infrastructure affected by these disasters.
in writing. the substantial contributions from member states must be given priority to europeans, and in particular to those affected by natural disasters. this is a healthy and sincere solidarity which i support, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european commission is proposing €47 million to help italy, greece, slovenia and croatia, which were severely affected by a variety of natural disasters between november 2013 and february 2014. in the case of slovenia and croatia, it was the largest snowstorm ever seen in europe, subsequently causing significant flooding. in slovenia, for example, nearly half of the country's forests have been damaged by ice, while one in four homes has been without electricity. this is therefore an important aid to enable them to rebuild their infrastructure, but these 'natural' disasters are becoming more frequent. our production methods are largely responsible for this. yet europe is reluctant to commit itself despite the danger to the planet and its climate. millions of people are threatened by the loss of clean water, flooding or even the loss of their land. the last un summit in lima opened up the idea of "voluntary" agreements, that is, under the guise of wanting to achieve at all costs, the legally binding bases of the agreement were skipped. i am voting for this urgently needed aid for these three countries.
in writing. unlike the european union's cohesion policy, which does not make it possible to reduce the economic and social disparities between the various member states, we do not, however, reject the very principle of solidarity with a european state that has been struck by a natural disaster. the south of france has recently suffered the devastating effects of the weather and in the face of this type of situation, the idea of mutual financial, material and human aid must be imposed on all. the european management of natural hazards and emergency solutions must therefore be encouraged. i voted for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. the eusf was set up in response to the floods that hit central europe in the summer of 2002. i voted in favour of the deployment of this fund in the specific case of the floods in italy, the earthquake in greece and the hailstorm in slovenia and croatia.
in writing. while we do not agree with the union's cohesion policy and believe that it does not help to reduce economic and social disparities between member states, we believe that the principle of european solidarity can make sense when one of our european neighbours is seriously affected by a natural disaster. the climate events that have struck the south of france in recent months give us the confidence that mutual financial assistance should make it possible to respond better to the human, material and financial consequences of this type of tragic event. the common management of natural hazards should be encouraged at european level in order to strengthen risk pooling. that is why i voted for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund.
in writing. the european solidarity funds have been designed to provide financial support to the regions most affected by natural disasters. i therefore vote in favour of using such a fund to make the best possible use of the damage caused by disasters in italy, croatia, greece and slovenia.
in writing. while opposed to eu cohesion policy, we nevertheless believe that solidarity between member states is necessary, especially when they are affected by major natural disasters, as was the case in the south of france. the mobilisation of this eu solidarity fund in favour of italy (sardinia), which was hit by floods in november 2013, greece (cephalonia), which was hit by an earthquake, slovenia, which was hit by hailstorms, and croatia, which was hit by the same hailstorms followed by floods in late january/early february 2014, is vital. it will thus bring about eur 47 million to these regions and i have therefore voted in favour of this draft amending budget no 5/2014.
in writing. i voted for the 5th brp, which seeks to mobilise the funds needed for the repair programmes following the terrible material damage caused by natural disasters (floods, hailstorms, earthquakes) in several member states. in such cases the principle of european solidarity makes perfect sense.
in writing. with the adoption of amending budget no 5, the european union rightly commits the solidarity fund to help countries hit by natural disasters in 2013 and 2014. for example, the floods in sardinia and croatia and the earthquake in greece caused extensive damage to public and private infrastructure and to the homes of local people. the release of €47 million for these countries will help to repair the damage caused.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report by my colleague patricija šulin on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for italy, greece, slovenia and croatia. the requests concerned floods in sardinia in november 2013, an earthquake in kefalonia, greece in january 2014, and ice storms in slovenia and croatia in early 2014, followed by floods in croatia. i believe that solidarity is an essential principle of the european union. it was to apply to those areas facing disasters with serious human and economic consequences.
in writing. the european commission is proposing €47 million to help italy, greece, slovenia and croatia, which were severely affected by a variety of natural disasters between november 2013 and february 2014. some of it has already been allocated to these countries. in view of the budgetary difficulties, the commission and parliament propose that the commitment appropriations for this fund for 'major natural disasters' be entered in the 2014 budget but that the payment needs corresponding to the 2015 budget be deferred. the amending budget therefore creates new arrears by deciding not to pay in 2014 the relief appropriations to which the member states are immediately entitled under the natural disaster compensation. i am voting against this postponement because of the mismanagement of the budget.
in writing. i voted for the 5th brp, which seeks to mobilise the funds needed for the repair programmes following the terrible material damage caused by natural disasters (floods, hailstorms, earthquakes) in several member states. in such cases the principle of european solidarity makes perfect sense.
in writing. the eusf was set up in response to the floods that hit central europe in the summer of 2002. i voted in favour of the deployment of this fund in the specific case of the floods in italy, the earthquake in greece and the hailstorm in slovenia and croatia.
in writing. draft amending budget no 6 provides for a reduction in the budget appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries, totalling eur 76.3 million in commitment appropriations and eur 6.2 million in payment appropriations. at the same time, the rdp provides for an increase in the budgetary appropriations for the european ombudsman to the amount of eur 93 500. this draft amending budget is again badly drafted and will result in a reduction in the appropriations for the fisheries sector, which is facing very serious difficulties. moreover, there is no way of estimating the amount of the decline in the share of gni for france. finally, how can we seriously envisage a general reduction in the gni contribution of the member states when the european union is facing a serious crisis of payments? these cosmetic measures will in no way resolve the budgetary crisis facing the union. that is why i decided to vote against the pbr no. 6/2014.
in writing. in line with my vote in favour of the use of the european solidarity fund for italy, greece, slovenia and croatia following natural disasters, i also vote in favour of the necessary redeployment of funds in the union budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to the tune of eur 47 million. the funds are allocated to aid programmes following natural disasters, including major floods in sardinia and croatia, the aftermath of the earthquake in greece and the damage caused by hail in slovenia. this fund is a concrete example of european solidarity.
in writing. the rdp, which covers the revision of the estimates for traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions, the reduction of the budget appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for the partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries (eur 76.3 million in the ec and eur -6.2 million in the cp), and the increase in the appropriations for the european ombudsman (the usefulness of which has yet to be demonstrated) only serve to mask the difficulties of the eu, which is a bad payer, and still does not solve the real budgetary problems. i therefore voted against this draft amending budget no 6/2014.
in writing. draft amending budget no 6 provides for a reduction in the budget appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries, totalling eur 76.3 million in commitment appropriations and eur 6.2 million in payment appropriations. at the same time, the rdp provides for an increase in the budgetary appropriations for the european ombudsman to the amount of eur 93 500. this draft amending budget is again badly drafted and will result in a reduction in the appropriations for the fisheries sector, which is facing very serious difficulties. moreover, there is no way of estimating the amount of the decline in the share of gni for france. finally, how can we seriously envisage a general reduction in the gni contribution of the member states when the european union is facing a serious crisis of payments? these cosmetic measures will in no way resolve the budgetary crisis facing the union. that is why i have decided to vote against pbr no 6/2014.
in writing. draft amending budget no 6 notes that the european union's own resources requirements have been reduced by a total of eur 4 095.5 million. this decrease is reflected in a corresponding adjustment of the member states' contributions to the eu budget. for some, this is a welcome development, given their fragile financial situation. for others, whose contribution is adjusted upwards, it was necessary to make it possible to spread payments. with the amendment of regulation no 1150/2000, that is done. that is why i supported this text.
in writing. as every year, the eu multiplies the corrective budgets (9 in 2013) without succeeding in correcting its delicate budgetary situation. due to the historic contraction of the 2014 budget (down by 10 billion, or minus 6%) the arrears continue to accumulate without being able to finance any new priority. this amending budget adds to the austerity. it allows member states to temporarily reduce their contributions to the eu budget in return for the payment of surplus fines levied by the eu (amending budget 4). the amendment to the budget also eliminates appropriations, in particular by cutting the european maritime and fisheries fund. europe is sinking into short-sighted austerity. having already voted against the 2014 budget in november 2013, i am voting against this amending budget which is as stupid as it is irresponsible for the future of the continent.
in writing. i voted against this rdp no 6 which provides for the reduction of budgetary appropriations allocated to the european maritime and fisheries fund and to the reserve for partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries. a total of eur 76.3 million in commitment appropriations and eur 6.2 million in payment appropriations was thus cancelled. in addition, additional budgetary appropriations (up to eur 93 500) will be allocated to the missions of the european ombudsman in this rdp. the draft amending budget is therefore bad, since it provides for a reduction in appropriations for fishermen who are already in serious difficulties. finally, in substance, this rdp no 6 does not solve the serious problems of settling the debts of the eu and the lags (remains to be settled).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources and vat and gni contributions, which will make it possible to release eur 4.5 billion in the new eu budget. although the sums could have been higher, this compromise is better than nothing at all.
in writing. i supported this amending budget because it updates the contribution that each member state has to make to the general budget of the european union following the change in the calculation methods. in general, the member states' contribution to the budget is reduced compared with the previous year.
in writing. following the pbr no 7/2014 granting eur 79 726 440 in commitment appropriations for 2014 and the same amount in 2015 in payment appropriations, we are proposed to support, through the eu solidarity fund, 3 countries following severe floods (serbia and croatia in may 2014 and bulgaria affected by floods in june 2014). the fund is intended to express the eu's solidarity with the people of the regions affected by these disasters, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. considering that the principle of european solidarity must obviously be applied to remedy the damage caused by natural disasters, i naturally voted in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. meps voted in favour of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for bulgaria, croatia and serbia. the floods that hit the region this summer caused considerable damage. the european union was to help these countries cope with the disastrous consequences of the weather. the solidarity fund will provide financial assistance of almost eur 80 million to these three countries. this fund is a proof of european solidarity with the population of member states affected by a major natural disaster.
in writing. last may, severe weather affected large parts of the republic of serbia and, to a lesser extent, croatia, causing severe flooding, causing massive destruction of public and private infrastructure and damaging hundreds of thousands of homes. a month later, heavy and violent rains exceeding four times the monthly climate averages fell on parts of the republic of bulgaria, causing severe flooding and significant disruption. the solidarity fund enables the european union to provide effective assistance to a member state or an acceding country when it is faced with damage caused by a major natural disaster. it is proposed to mobilise eur 19 501 835 from the fund for croatia and bulgaria and eur 60 224 605 for serbia. in the name of european solidarity with the member states of the union and the acceding countries and their people who are experiencing a period of great difficulty, i voted in favour of this financial support.
in writing. the commission proposes, through this text, to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in favour of serbia, croatia and bulgaria, which were hit by severe floods in may and june 2014. in these countries, the damage caused by these weather events was considerable. in these circumstances, it is important that the european union should assist in the rehabilitation of the destroyed infrastructure and stand by the people affected by these exceptional climatic conditions.
in writing. the substantial contributions from member states must be given priority to europeans, and in particular to those affected by natural disasters. this is a healthy and sincere solidarity which i support, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the solidarity fund is requested here to provide financial assistance to croatia, bulgaria and serbia to repair the damage caused by the large-scale floods they experienced during the summer of 2014. this is important to help them rebuild their infrastructure, particularly energy, and to continue to make it more secure. i am voting for this urgently needed aid for these three countries. we deplore the fact that europe is not taking a stronger stand against the dangers posed to the planet by our production methods and climate change.
in writing. considering that the principle of european solidarity must obviously be applied to remedy the damage caused by natural disasters, i naturally voted in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. the eusf was set up in response to the floods that hit central europe in the summer of 2002. i voted in favour of the deployment of this fund in the specific case of the floods in serbia, bulgaria and croatia.
in writing. while we do not agree with the union's cohesion policy and believe that it does not help to reduce economic and social disparities between member states, we believe that the principle of european solidarity can make sense when one of our european neighbours is seriously affected by a natural disaster. the climate events that have struck the south of france in recent months give us the confidence that mutual financial assistance should make it possible to respond better to the human, material and financial consequences of this type of tragic event. the common management of natural hazards should be encouraged at european level in order to strengthen risk pooling. that is why i voted for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund.
in writing. the european solidarity funds have been designed to provide financial support to the regions most affected by natural disasters. i therefore vote in favour of using such a fund to make the best possible use of the damage caused by severe weather in croatia and bulgaria.
in writing. this draft amending budget no 7/2014 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for a total of eur 79 726 440 in commitment and payment appropriations following the floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states in the event of a crisis. to deal with these floods and to support the people, i voted for this amending budget.
in writing. in may and june 2014, very heavy floods affected serbia, croatia and bulgaria, causing very significant damage to both private individuals and businesses, as well as to the infrastructure necessary for the proper functioning of a country. the adoption of this amending budget no 7 for the financial year 2014 represents the european union's support for these countries and their people. the solidarity fund, with a budget of approximately eur 79 million, will play a welcome role in the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the damaged areas.
in writing. i voted for amending budget no 7 concerning the mobilisation of the funds needed to help member states and their populations affected by serious natural disasters.
in writing. the eusf was set up in response to the floods that hit central europe in the summer of 2002. i voted in favour of the deployment of this fund in the specific case of the floods in serbia, bulgaria and croatia.
in writing. while we do not agree with the union's cohesion policy and believe that it does not help to reduce economic and social disparities between member states, we believe that the principle of european solidarity can make sense when one of our european neighbours is seriously affected by a natural disaster. the climate events that have struck the south of france in recent months give us the confidence that mutual financial assistance should make it possible to respond better to the human, material and financial consequences of this type of tragic event. the common management of natural hazards should be encouraged at european level in order to strengthen risk pooling. that is why i voted for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund.
in writing. in line with my positive vote on the use of the european solidarity fund for serbia, croatia and bulgaria following natural disasters, i also vote for the redeployment of the necessary funds in the union budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it allows the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to help the people affected by major floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria. the commission will also be able to use the appropriations for commitments and payments to cover the damage.
in writing. draft amending budget no 8/2014 should allow the surplus resulting from the financial year 2013 to be reimbursed to cover the remaining expenditure in the 2014 budget. this report is a clear example of the eu's logic, spending taxpayers' money to excess, reprimanding the member states on the one hand, but failing to meet the financial commitments it has made on the other. the eu thus finds itself in the position of the bad payer, unable to honour its commitments and trying by all means to make up for its risky budgetary management. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted against this draft amending budget no 8/2014 which aims to reintegrate the surplus of the 2013 financial year in order to cover the expenditure of the 2014 budget. the european union is in a state of disarray and once again proves that it is reduced to looking for a solution to the serious problems of the unpaid. for years now, the eu has made commitments without giving a second thought to how it should be paid. it is now facing a very serious financial and budgetary crisis.
in writing. during the financial year 2013, the budget of the european union was in surplus amounting to eur 1,005 million. by voting in favour of this amending budget no 8, the european parliament has allowed this budget surplus to be reintroduced into the 2014 budget, which i am pleased about.
in writing. this amending budget is a further symptom of the european union's budgetary mismanagement. parliament is here being asked to vote on exactly the same amendment as it already voted on under the name of amending budget no 2 in october. at that time the council had never been able to reach an agreement with the commission, so this amendment was never applied. the commission is again putting it to the vote of a parliament which is making more of a budgetary figure than ever before. the amendment essentially involves transferring to the 2014 budget one billion euros of surpluses recorded in the 2013 budget, even though there are more than 20 billion unpaid. the european budget is managed in such a way that it is increasingly impossible to implement the planned expenditure, particularly because of the complexity of the rules governing the management of european funds. the amendment to the budget also provides for an exceptional reduction in the contribution of the member states to the european budget to the extent of the surplus. in the face of such short-sighted mismanagement, i vote against.
in writing. i voted against this draft amending budget no 8/2014 which aims to reintegrate the surplus of the 2013 financial year in order to cover the expenditure of the 2014 budget. the european union is in a state of disarray and once again proves that it is reduced to looking for a solution to the serious problems of the unpaid. for years now, the eu has made commitments without giving a second thought to how it should be paid. it is now facing a very serious financial and budgetary crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i support the mobilisation of additional resources from the surpluses of previous years, so that this eu money remains available for the year 2015, and thus make the best use of the instruments of the european budget.
in writing. through this text, it is up to the european parliament to approve the revision of certain budget lines for 2014, including the inclusion of surplus budget lines for 2013. i am in favour of such a measure.
in writing. this report on eu own resources tells us that for several years a number of member states have paid too little to the union budget compared to what they should have paid, while other member states have paid too much. some states (7 in total) whose contribution was underestimated indicated their refusal to pay the additional payments due within the time limits laid down by the brussels injunctions. france, on the other hand, pays eur 21 billion a year to the european budget, but only recovers eur 13 billion, and this is despite the fact that many of my countrymen are suffering the full effects of the economic and social crisis. the united kingdom, in continuation of the retaliation inherited from the thatcher era, will have succeeded once again in preserving these interests. it's time for us to say, "i want my money back". i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the budget of the european union plays a key role in expressing solidarity between states and in the economic development of our continent. the community budget covers a long period of time - between five and seven years - and can also be adjusted, sometimes drastically, for those member states which have to contribute more. the text, which provides for the possibility for member states to defer the release of the amounts resulting from these adjustments, is therefore welcome. it nevertheless risks further complicating the own resources system and underlines the need to reform the current framework.
in writing. this text illustrates the increasing confusion of the european budgetary procedures. each year, in principle in december, the member states revise their contributions to the eu in line with adjustments in their tax and economic statistics. but for several years now, the commission's increased controls over the member states have made it impossible to make these adjustments in time, as the court of auditors has pointed out. some member states have thus accumulated significant arrears in the payment of their revised contributions for previous years. as these delays are linked to the commission's checks, they refuse to pay them in bulk. the commission has therefore proposed a provisional mechanism for carrying forward these revised payments. while denouncing the complexity of this, parliament's report validates this mechanism without in any way resolving the bureaucratic paralysis created by the european commission. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this report because my country, france, pays 21 billion euros to the eu budget and receives only 13 billion in return (mainly from the cap), 8 billion of which goes to support other member states, mainly from eastern europe. the united kingdom will once again be able to protect its interests, which will of course not be the case with president hollande and his government, who will again prove incapable of acting for france and the french. in defence of national sovereignty and in the economic and social context we are in, i believe that these 21 billion euros should therefore remain available in our national budget and thus contribute to improving the daily lives of our compatriots.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it deals with the adjustment of national contributions to the union's own resources. only a comprehensive reform of the eu's own resources system would be able to address the current eu cash shortage.
in writing. recent revisions of member states' contributions based on their vat and gross national income have revealed that some member states have contributed too much or not enough to the european budget in recent years. in other words, the statistical calculations were not sufficiently precise and homogeneous between the member states. however, such statistical adjustments may subsequently have considerable consequences for the contribution of certain member states to the budget of the european union, which is why the council wishes to allow the deferred payment of such contributions in exceptional circumstances. unfortunately, this adds to the complexity of the european budget. nevertheless, i am resolved to vote in favour of such a measure because the priority is the adoption of the budgets for 2014 and 2015 so that the european union can deal with the most important economic issues as quickly as possible.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for disaster-affected regions is not linked to a particular case of natural disaster as was the case with the other requests for votes on aid following events in countries. the report aims to enter eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to provide for advances to be paid as soon as possible in the event of natural disasters in 2015. this should allow for a more rapid response than the normal procedure, but i would like to deplore the low level of appropriations for this purpose, whereas the eu does not hesitate to spend money all over the world. in order to guarantee the principle of solidarity at european level, which i cannot ignore in the event of natural disasters, i have of course voted in favour.
in writing. under the current rules, it is possible to budget an amount of eur 50 million under the solidarity fund to allow for a faster response to natural disasters than would be possible under the normal procedure. it is crucial that member states affected by exceptional natural phenomena can quickly rely on european aid to complement the budgetary measures they are already taking.
in writing. the substantial contributions from member states must be given priority to europeans, and in particular to those affected by natural disasters. this is a healthy and sincere solidarity which i support, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this report aims to improve the european union solidarity fund which helps countries affected by 'major natural disasters' to help them rebuild. it includes in the 2015 budget the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to allow for the faster disbursement of funds to the country in need. the demands for this fund will increase as unbridled capitalism disrupts the climate and austerity policies of governments do not allow to cope with it. i am voting for this crucial allocation to help countries affected by ever-growing environmental disasters.
in writing. considering that the principle of european solidarity must obviously be applied to remedy the damage caused by disasters, i naturally voted in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. the eusf was set up in response to the floods that hit central europe in the summer of 2002. i voted in favour of the deployment of this fund which allows for the rapid mobilisation of resources in the event of a disaster.
in writing. while we do not agree with the union's cohesion policy and believe that it does not help to reduce economic and social disparities between member states, we believe that the principle of european solidarity can make sense when one of our european neighbours is seriously affected by a natural disaster. the climate events that have struck the south of france in recent months give us the confidence that mutual financial assistance should make it possible to respond better to the human, material and financial consequences of this type of tragic event. the common management of natural hazards should be encouraged at european level in order to strengthen risk pooling. that is why i voted for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund.
in writing. i am in favour of expressing the solidarity of the peoples through a dedicated fund of 50 million euros for the year 2015.
in writing. the eu is facing a serious economic and budgetary crisis. many countries are suffering the full effects of the austerity policy decided by brussels. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument here for cyprus is a good indication of the budgetary situation in which the eu finds itself. the flexibility instrument, which has a ceiling of eur 200 million, will thus have to provide eur 80 million (or 40%!) to cyprus to finance structural fund programmes. given the economic and social situation in the union and the poor management of the eu's budgets, i therefore voted against.
in writing. faced with an unprecedented payments crisis, it is imperative that the european union controls its multiannual financial framework and avoids at all costs the use of the flexibility instrument for such large amounts. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument reflects a shortage of european funds. the ceiling for this instrument is limited to eur 200 million. it therefore appears totally disproportionate to mobilise eur 80 million for cyprus, or almost 40% of the total amount. that is why i voted against the decision of the european parliament and the council.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument which mobilises eur 11.3 million in payment appropriations for the year 2015 for cyprus. the text was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. the flexibility instrument allows for a given budgetary year the financing of clearly identified additional expenditure outside the multiannual financial framework, the budget of the european union for 7 years. in concrete terms, this means mobilising eur 83 million from this instrument to finance the additional structural funds to which cyprus is entitled. the structural funds are now directly conditional on compliance with 'macro-conditionality', i.e. compliance with the neoliberal doxa. i am voting in favour of this so as not to prevent the cypriot people from benefiting from cohesion policy funds. it is this last financial manna which keeps the employment agencies and, more broadly, the social welfare agencies in europe afloat.
in writing. the european union is facing an unprecedented crisis of arrears. at the end of 2014, the amount of unpaid invoices amounted to approximately eur 30 billion, while the amount of commitments still to be implemented (ral still to be settled) exceeded eur 220 billion. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument therefore betrays the disastrous budgetary and financial situation in which the european union finds itself, which no longer has the current funds necessary for its policies and commitments. it should also be noted that this flexibility instrument is capped at eur 200 million and that it is proposed here that we should release eur 80 million, or 40%, to finance the structural funds programmes for cyprus. in view of the economic and social situation in europe and particularly in france, i voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, which allows the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings available under one or more headings of the mff. the aim here is to mobilise eur 83 260 000 for structural fund programmes for cyprus.
in writing. faced with an unprecedented payments crisis, it is imperative that the european union controls its multiannual financial framework and avoids at all costs the use of the flexibility instrument for such large amounts. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument reflects a shortage of european funds. the ceiling for this instrument is limited to eur 200 million. it therefore appears totally disproportionate to mobilise eur 80 million for cyprus, or almost 40% of the total amount. that is why i voted against the decision of the european parliament and the council.
in writing. the challenge facing cyprus is unprecedented and the impact of the crisis is unfortunately still being felt in this member state. as such, the structural funds make it possible to finance the real economy. in this resolution, parliament gives its consent to the use of such a mechanism and to the redeployment of certain budget lines towards it.
in writing. while the european union's arrears pile up, huge budgets are being announced. the european union cannot solve the problems of its member states by taking billions of euros from them. it is the european union's guidelines that need to be reviewed urgently rather than providing new budgets for policies that are doomed to failure.
in writing. i had strongly criticised the original draft budget for 2015 presented by the european commission because the measures to help farmers following the russian embargo were then financed by the crisis reserve, made available by the new cap in case of an agricultural crisis. the difficulties facing farmers today because of the embargo are not the result of an agricultural crisis but of diplomacy. the use of the crisis reserve was to penalize them twice over, which was unjustified and unacceptable. this proposal was withdrawn from the new draft general budget, which is why i finally supported it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft budget for 2015 following the intensive negotiations of our institution with the council. this draft budget provides for 145 321.5 million in commitment appropriations and 141 214.0 million in payment appropriations for 2015. i welcome in particular the support for research programmes and the maintenance of erasmus for students, as well as the €273.6 million which will be allocated to farmers without touching the agricultural crisis reserve to offset the losses incurred as a result of the russian embargo. it is a great victory to extend solidarity with farmers to all and not just to use the agricultural crisis reserve provided for in the cap. i would, however, insist that a payment clearance plan be found in response to the current crisis, and that before the commission proposes a draft budget for 2016. it is now essential to find a new system of own resources to break out of this impasse.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft budget for 2015, the result of lengthy negotiations with the member states. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. therefore, an additional eur 4.25 billion was granted by the member states to settle outstanding invoices in 2014. i also approved the arrows that were decided. for example, an additional €45 million will be allocated to the horizon 2020 research and development programme and an additional €16 million to the erasmus+ student programme, which, i would remind you, is to benefit new profiles such as apprentices and young entrepreneurs.
in writing. the programme for this budget includes 10 priorities, including boosting employment, growth and investment, connecting the digital single market, combating global warming, securing europe's borders, etc. the eu, which is trying to boost investment with its 2015 budget, should start by withdrawing its directive on posted workers, which is the source of unfair competition in the labour market, especially in france! and what about the unpaid bills, which accumulate and account for almost 20 percent of the revenue! the eu is announcing today that it has some room for manoeuvre? but who will pay for this debt that does not say his name? the lessons of budgetary morality which brussels is teaching the member states are completely indecent. to this must be added the ral 220 billion (commitments still to be settled) which far exceeds the payment appropriations mobilised. how will the eu deal with this situation? the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the budget for the year 2014 and to present a report on the implementation of the budget for the year 2015. i'm willing to bet that mr. arthur will say the same thing in 2019. i voted against it.
in writing. the number of outstanding payments is increasing year by year and there will be about 30 million unpaid invoices that are carried over to the year 2015. i therefore welcome the proposal for the 2015 budget adopted following the trilogue, as the european union has been given an extension to answer this question. i am also in favour of increasing the union's budget for 2015, even though it does not allow the union's institutions and agencies to function optimally. the european parliament should therefore remain vigilant and urge the council to respect the multiannual budgetary framework.
in writing. this new draft general budget of the eu for 2015 sets eur 145.3215 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 141.214 billion in payment appropriations. this will address the most urgent payment needs in 2014, but the level of additional payment appropriations in the 2014 budget will not be sufficient to stop the recurring snowball effect of unpaid invoices in 2015, which remains a very significant problem. european technocratic policies are thus able to criticize the member states and demand ever more austerity, while the eu itself is unable to pay its own bills and accumulates a considerable debt (more than eur 220 billion of commitments still to be settled). i therefore voted against this budget.
in writing. the european union faces a debt of almost €30 billion. the european parliament is using the discharge of debts to ask for an increase in the general budget, which the council is right to oppose. in times of crisis in payments, the copying should be completely revised and the financing of budget lines which substitute for the international sovereignty of the member states should be stopped. for example, the following budget lines should be reconsidered:- €286 million for the peace process in palestine;- €882 million for humanitarian aid;- + €2 784 852 for the promotion of innovative and reflective inclusive societies. the budget of the european union is a veritable gas factory, which is why i voted against this report.
in writing. the european budget for 2015 has finally been voted. the european parliament has succeeded in making its voice heard in the face of a council that is reluctant to make any concessions. meps have approved an additional €4 billion to cover the outstanding payments from previous years. however, let us remember that there are still 23 billion unpaid. it is a considerable sum of money which we need to implement the policies of the union. i voted for this budget. i particularly welcome the involvement of my colleagues in the epp who have succeeded in implementing the group's priorities.
in writing. while it is welcome that the 2015 budget was voted on in time, i would also like to stress, as my colleagues in the european parliament have done, that a payment settlement plan must be found in response to the current crisis. in view of the accumulation of unpaid invoices since 2010, it is indeed crucial to find a new system of own resources. finally, it is regrettable that the full revenue from fines has not been paid into the union budget.
in writing. despite what can be described as a contemptuous attitude on the part of the council in this year's budget, i welcome the result achieved for this 2015 budget. after tough negotiations, the european parliament has obtained an increase in commitment appropriations compared with the position initially advocated by the member states, while the overall level of payment appropriations is now set at eur 141.214 million. i would particularly mention the increases in key areas such as horizon 2020 (+ 49.4 million), erasmus + (+ 16 million), cosme (+ 14 million) and employment and social innovation (+ 1.5 million). in spite of this, it is clear that this budget does not provide a lasting solution to the problem of the increase in the number of unpaid invoices from the budget of the european union. in a context of a particularly serious payment crisis, which is eating up the successive budgets for european policies year after year, we must therefore go further in our reflection on the establishment of the eu's own resources.
in writing. after difficult negotiations, parliament approved the agreement reached on the union's 2015 budget. the budget amounts to eur 145.3 billion for commitment appropriations and eur 141.2 billion for payment appropriations. it will thus continue to finance key programmes such as horizon 2020, cosme and erasmus. in addition, in response to the russian embargo on food imports, european farmers will receive almost 274 million in compensation. with this agreement, the union also says it wants to commit itself to paying off its debt, which currently stands at more than eur 25 billion. the house also called for the eu to be given a role in the fight against terrorism and for the eu to be able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. the conclusions of the work of the high level group on the union's own resources chaired by mario monti are therefore eagerly awaited.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft budget for 2015, the result of lengthy negotiations with the member states. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. therefore, an additional eur 4.25 billion was granted by the member states to settle outstanding invoices in 2014. i also approved the arrows that were decided. for example, an additional €45 million will be allocated to the horizon 2020 research and development programme and an additional €16 million to the erasmus+ student programme, which, i would remind you, is to benefit new profiles such as apprentices and young entrepreneurs.
in writing. i voted against the eu budget 2015 because i am against the eu on principle, and also because european money - which is actually our tax money! - is misused and is even sometimes used to finance lavish expenses, even pharaonic bonuses (such as the 'transitional allowance', i.e. the departure bonus, paid to mr van rompuy, totalling €349,200 net!). finally, i denounce the hypocrisy of this budget, which everyone knows will not be respected by the eu, which already has a cumulative debt of 30 billion euros, in violation of the treaties which forbid it to go into debt.
in writing. it is now a ritual at every european budgetary examination: the parliament expresses its categorical rejection at first reading in october, before voting on a nearly identical budget at second reading in december. the new illustration with the 2015 budget: after describing it as "catastrophic" in october, the same rapporteurs now propose to adopt it without amendments. the final amount is still lower than the commission's initial proposal, but still far below the figure. however, all the parliament's initial criticisms remain intact. it continued to deplore the lack of budgetary translations of the priorities set out for employment and growth. it even notes that 'the council no longer seems to have any political priorities and is only seeking to limit expenditure as much as possible in all areas'. he points out that the adjusted budget "will not be enough to stop the recurring 'snowball' effect of unpaid invoices in 2015". it is protesting against the council's repeated failure to respect previous commitments. but he votes yes with his eyes closed. with such reports, the european parliament abdicates the little power it has. i vote against this sham democracy.
in writing. the eu's general budget for 2015, which has been released in forceps, will have revealed the flaws in the europeanist "machine". the prospect of the use of the provisional twelfths in 2015, a veritable sword of damocles hanging over the heads of the eu's budgetary and political bodies, forced the members of the conciliation committee to reach an agreement to avoid sending "a disastrous signal to european citizens in these times of economic uncertainty"... a tentative agreement, which will not solve the fundamental problems which are structural and not just cyclical. the european union welcomes the finding of a solution which will, it is claimed, optimise economic growth. a budget focused 'on supporting policies promoting competitiveness and economic convergence', thus contributing 'to growth and employment'. this 2015 budget is in fact a list of wishful thinking and empty and agreed formulas, already formulated and repeated in previous budgets and for what results? a growth rate in the euro zone at its lowest, member states, including france, choking on exponential public debt and european peoples suffocated by the austerity measures imposed by the european union. i voted against it.
in writing. i voted for the 2015 budget. it is true that it is not perfect, that it does not solve all the problems, but we must move forward: a new commission is in place, it shows a strong desire to legislate better and it was necessary to give it the means to get started. it is done and we look forward to 2015. we are nevertheless extremely vigilant about the european budget deficit, a problem which can have disastrous consequences for the proper functioning of the european union.
in writing. following the failure in november, the main parties in parliament reached a tentative agreement on the 2015 eu budget, avoiding the use of the provisional twelfths. at the time of its release, no radical solution was proposed to solve the growing problem of unpaid debts (€30 billion in default). the union is quite capable of giving the states lessons in budgetary orthodoxy, when it does not know how to organise the treasury itself. apart from natural disaster and solidarity expenditure, the eu budget cannot therefore receive the support of fn/rbm elected representatives.
in writing. i supported the new general budget of the european union for the year 2015. the negotiators reached a compromise which provides for eur 145.32 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 141.21 billion in payment appropriations for 2015. our french priorities have been taken into account by increasing funding for major european programmes such as research programmes or erasmus+ (an additional €16 million) and by increasing the foreign policy payment budget by an additional €32 million. in addition, in the face of the current situation, we have secured the financing of eur 274 million for compensation to farmers for the russian embargo, without touching the agricultural crisis reserve. finally, we remain attentive to the development of the budgetary situation and to the establishment of a new system of the european union's own resources, which is proving to be fundamental; we are therefore encouraging the continuation of the work of the high level group on own resources.
in writing. the new eu general budget for 2015 was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament, thanks to the votes of the epp, socialist and liberal groups. this majority was achieved despite an intransigent council position which led the commission to present a new proposal revised downwards from its june 2014 proposal. the 2015 budget thus adopted amounts to €145.2 billion (commitments) and €141.2 billion (payments), far from the €146.3 billion (commitments and payments) that the ep adopted last september. in fact, the ep has once again failed the council by renouncing its powers in budgetary matters. the only compensation obtained is that it does not increase the amount of unpaid community projects concerning in particular local and regional authorities, smes and associations. the budget is therefore totally unacceptable and fails to respond to the union's social challenges, both in terms of jobs and in combating the inequalities that have been the result of the eu's austerity measures.
in writing. this proposal asks us to oppose the commission's draft regulation on the classification of serious infringements of eu rules which may damage the reputation of road hauliers. regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 should allow for the harmonisation of the rules for fair competition. this objective must make it possible to avoid unfair competition between european countries which do not have the same working time rules or the same burdens and wages on companies. the text also strengthens sanctions, particularly in the case of illegal work. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the european parliament wishes to give its opinion on the draft commission regulation on the classification of serious infringements of eu rules which may damage the reputation of road hauliers. regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 thus provides for the harmonisation of fair competition rules in order to reduce disparities between european countries which do not have the same rules in terms of working time, social charges on businesses or wages. the main thrust of the text is to tighten penalties for illegal work, which will have a deterrent effect on illegal immigration. for all these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. this resolution proposes that the european parliament oppose the publication of the delegated regulation adopted by the european commission to supplement regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 of the european parliament and of the council as regards the classification of serious infringements of union rules which may damage the reputation of road haulage operators. the mandate given to the european commission was to establish common rules on the conditions for the exercise of the occupation of road haulage operator. however, a close examination of the document reveals that its contents and form do not answer the question. the procedures in force in the 28 member states are still too diverse and the assessment of the level of seriousness and the enforcement of infringements are still subject to the national supervisory authorities or the competent authorities concerned. the act in question does not propose any harmonisation of existing rules, lacks clarity and does not bring any real european added value. furthermore, no mention is made of the problems of cabotage which must be examined. for these reasons i opposed the adoption of this delegated act and voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. the incomplete list of infringements of community rules which may damage the reputation of road hauliers led me to vote in favour of the objection to the european commission's delegated act. the commission proposal for a regulation did not include illegal cabotage transport in its list of infringements, nor did it include other rules concerning illegal cabotage, in particular those relating to the execution of cabotage operations in conditions contrary to the national social legislation applicable to the contract.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleague markus ferber on the commission's delegated act on serious breaches of eu rules which may damage the reputation of road hauliers. the resolution seeks to reject this delegated act, which does not bring clarity or added value to the classification of offences and presents shortcomings in the transport of dangerous goods. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i wanted to vote against this delegated act on the classification of offences against the honour of road hauliers in order to protest against the abuses linked to the cabotage of goods by road. it is important to combat social dumping and unfair competition in this area by limiting deliveries by european carriers to member states where they are not established and by emphasising the penalties incurred in the event of infringement of the regulation.
in writing. i wanted to defend road cabotage. the purpose of the regulation is to prevent unfair competition on the part of foreign road hauliers, in large numbers, between road hauliers, who would be favoured by lower cost prices (labour, fuel, vehicles) than those borne by our road hauliers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. this vote is a clear warning to the european commission: cabotage is a sensitive subject with serious economic consequences. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european patent.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 21 october 2009 lays down common rules on the conditions for the exercise of the occupation of road transport operator. the commission proposed the addition of the list to classify cases of serious breaches of eu rules which could damage the reputation of road hauliers. the commission proposal remains very vague in this classification. this makes it even more difficult for the authorities to interpret the types and levels of serious crime competently. it also failed to provide a complete list of serious offences. the report calls for us to reject the commission's proposal, so i am voting for it.
in writing. we are asked to give an opinion on the draft commission regulation on the classification of serious infringements of eu rules which may damage the reputation of road hauliers. regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 thus provides for the harmonisation of fair competition rules in order to reduce disparities between european countries which do not have the same rules in terms of working time, social charges on businesses or wages. the text also provides for stricter penalties in the case of illegal work. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted against the commission's proposed act for two reasons. the first is technical: the act was draft and did not bring european added value. the second is political: it was a matter of telling the commission that road cabotage is an important subject and that we remain strongly involved in this subject in order to avoid social dumping between carriers.
in writing. i voted against this text. this list of infringements of eu rules for transport operators did not prohibit social dumping, in particular illegal cabotage, which is when a carrier operates in a neighbouring country without having the appropriate authorisations, and therefore without any guarantee that it complies with its social and environmental standards. for the socialists, social dumping and its corollary, unfair competition, are major societal problems in europe, which have only worsened with the crisis. i am very pleased with this vote: the european parliament has used the powers conferred by the lisbon treaty to the maximum to advance social progress. social dumping is not a subject that can be compromised with. it is in the general interest of our citizens.
in writing. i am pleased that a large majority of my colleagues have rejected this text from the european commission. road cabotage must be limited, and the european commission's position must be clear. we must protect french companies against social dumping. to do this, we must restrict the deliveries of a european carrier to a country which is not its own. it's the survival of our own carriers.
in writing. the list submitted to us by the commission is moving in the right direction. clarifying serious infringements in the field of road transport is to strengthen road safety and fair competition between companies. unfortunately, this list is far too restrictive from my point of view and that is why i did not support it. it does not sanction illegal cabotage, which can have a significant impact on road safety. today, some companies do not comply with the applicable national social legislation and employ drivers in inappropriate conditions which, in addition to damaging human dignity, can seriously affect attention and responsiveness at the wheel (e.g. the weekly rest in the cab). of course, this will have to be addressed through a wider reform but we must seize every opportunity to tackle the problem. without this, we will not be able to establish healthy competition between companies in the sector on the one hand, and between road transport and other more environmentally friendly modes on the other. i now invite the commission to come back as soon as possible with a new proposal.
in writing. i supported this resolution on serious breaches of eu rules which may damage the reputation of road hauliers. in voting this resolution, parliament rejected the delegated act proposed by the commission and which was being contested by the members of the french delegation to the epp. the text directly concerned road cabotage and had to be rejected for technical reasons: it did not add any value to the classification of the proposed offences and it also had worrying shortcomings in terms of the transport of dangerous goods. on the other hand, it was important for us to reiterate our vigilance as regards any possible reform of the road sector in the future. cabotage remains a sensitive and economically important subject, and special attention and action is needed to prevent social dumping.
in writing. i undertake to support any proposal to severely punish unfair competition. the fn mps had voted in 2009 in favour of the basic text from which the new regulation derives.
in writing. i voted against this text, which seeks to impose even stricter conditions on our industries, which are already heavily penalized in relation to competition from outside the community.
in writing. the european union is introducing environmental fuel specifications to reduce polluting emissions from cars. directive 98/70/ec aims to meet the commitment of directive 94/12/ec, which provided for the subsequent adoption of target values involving a substantial reduction in polluting emissions from motor vehicles. the motion for a resolution calls on us to oppose the adoption of the draft council directive, on the grounds that it does not set sufficiently strict requirements, particularly on emissions according to default averages of the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions during production itself (which is undeniably impossible to assess). the proposal therefore introduces additional standards for fuels which are far too restrictive and, in view of these explanations, i have spoken against it.
in writing. the european parliament has just voted by a very slim majority on directive 2014/0286, which will not penalise the import of oil from the oil sands by means of a european tax. as you know, the extraction of these deposits alone releases 23 percent more carbon than traditional hydrocarbons. in addition, oil sands mining techniques are very water intensive and have irreversible effects on soil destruction, particularly in canada's boreal forest. an increase in imports facilitated under the ceta agreement will result in an increase in production of this type of hydrocarbons. the adoption of this proposal for a directive shows in a very clear way that the european union is sacrificing all its social, health and environmental standards on the altar of free trade with canada and the united states. that is why i voted against the adoption of this text.
in writing. the directive on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels is the result of an acceptable compromise reached on the methods of calculating the intensity of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. the epp group therefore opposed the adoption of a resolution which would have required a further revision of the directive. in the run-up to the paris climate conference in 2015, this directive already shows the european union's efforts to reduce ghg emissions. for example, it requires suppliers to reduce ghg emission intensity over the entire life cycle for all fuels by 6% by 31 december 2020.
in writing. the european union has set itself the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020. the transport sector is concerned with this perspective at the level of 6%. indeed, oil sands are one of the most polluting sources of energy supply, releasing 23% more carbon into the atmosphere than conventional fuels. by refusing to take into account the harmful effects of diesel, the commission is therefore contradicting european objectives and is draining the draft directive of its substance. with less than a year to go until the cop21 climate change conference in paris, this decline sends a bad signal to the international community. i hope very much that this is only a temporary delay and that we can continue our efforts to combat global warming in 2015.
in writing. the proposed resolution is built on an ideological vision of ecology by calling for the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions released during fuel production. i voted against this resolution, which would have been to tighten the directive and increase the burden on our industries and companies, particularly in the oil sector, a burden that is synonymous with loss of competitiveness and weak economic dynamism.
in writing. i voted against this motion for a resolution which seeks to reverse the compromise reached by the european commission. the authors of the resolution would like to be able to trace each fuel back to the crude oil from which it is derived, so as to give each fuel a rating in terms of its unit intensity of greenhouse gas emissions. this would be very expensive, especially for all the smes in the oil sector which are after the refining stage, and would be very difficult to implement. refined products are indeed subject to many mixtures and changes of ownership. the system proposed by the european commission to use a default average value representing the unit greenhouse gas emission intensity by fuel type is more balanced. it has the merit of not disadvantaging fuels produced in the union in favour of imported products, the traceability of which is more difficult to ensure. in conclusion, it is better to have the compromise text proposed by the commission, which is imperfect but satisfactory, than no text at all for the coming years. the compromise reached is the result of several years of negotiations.
in writing. i voted against this resolution on the proposal for a council directive laying down calculation methods and reporting requirements under the directive on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels. this resolution challenged the compromise reached by the european commission, which was to use a default average value representing the unit greenhouse gas emission intensity by fuel type.
in writing. the revised directive 98/70/ec requires fuel suppliers to report annually the life cycle greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions produced per unit of energy supplied in each member state. the proposal for a council directive aims to establish the methods of calculating these ghgs. the parliament's report strongly criticises the method used. it does not take into account recent changes in the infrastructure and the oil market, in particular the spread of fuels from non-conventional sources (tar sands, shale, liquefied coal, etc.). what is the point of setting targets for ghg reductions of 6% by 2020 if the methods of calculating emissions do not even allow the results to be measured? i vote for this report.
in writing. the european union is introducing environmental standards for fuels to reduce greenhouse gases. directive 98/70/ec aims to meet the commitment of directive 94/12/ec, which provided for the subsequent establishment of target values contributing to a substantial reduction of polluting emissions from motor vehicles. with this motion for a resolution we are asked to vote on five highly technical and mathematical calculation methods to meet increasingly stringent requirements, particularly on emissions, using default average values of the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions during production itself (which is undeniably impossible to assess). the proposal therefore introduces additional standards and clauses which are far too restrictive in respect of fuels and which ignore the general interest in favour of a spirit of shopaholicism; i voted against it.
in writing. the stated aim of this resolution is to ask the council to withdraw its proposal for a directive and to make a new proposal to parliament. the commission considers that the council proposal is contrary to the objectives of the revised directive 98/70/ec which requires 'fuel suppliers to declare annually the life cycle greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions per unit of energy supplied in each member state and to reduce by 6 per cent by 31 december 2020 the life cycle ghg emission intensity for all fuels supplied in relation to the average value in the union of life cycle ghg emissions per unit of energy attributable to fossil fuels in 2010'.
in writing. i voted against this text. i am well informed on the subject since my work on the biofuels directive in 2013, and i believe that the revision of the fuel quality directive threatens to strengthen the market shares of oil from tar sands, de facto encouraging more production. we have strongly opposed its adoption and we condemn the european parliament's vote in favour. in the current and future trade negotiations, we will not compromise on european environmental standards: the fight against climate change is everywhere and all the time! we deplore the fact that a conservative majority has supported the commission in its lack of political courage, when the consequences for the climate will be catastrophic if the european union does not take the necessary measures to reduce polluting emissions from transport.
in writing. the european parliament voted against a motion rejecting the council's draft method for calculating fuel quality. however, this proposal for a directive is the opposite of the direction the european union should take in the fight against climate change. on the contrary, this project is in the interests of the oil lobbies and will favour the dirtiest hydrocarbons, such as oil sands. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods, which is a matter of principle for the member states. it is urgent that the european union finally work towards a real energy transition policy, which favours alternative fuels, which are more environmentally friendly, and clean modes of transport.
in writing. the resolution rejects a proposal for a directive and asks the committee to come forward with a more binding text which would have serious consequences for our industries and businesses.
in writing. the draft resolution calls on the council to make a new proposal for a directive on the calculation methods and reporting requirements under directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels. this proposal goes against the european commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as set out in this directive. the directive requires fuel suppliers to report their greenhouse gas emissions annually, with the aim of reducing them by 6% by 2020 compared to 2010. the directive is therefore a fundamental tool in the european fight against climate change. but with this proposal the commission is deliberately weakening it. by removing the possibility of distinguishing between the raw materials used for the fuels, it opens the door to the massive use of shale gas and oil sands, to the great happiness of the canadian lobby, whose influence we have seen in recent weeks. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution. but it was rejected, to my great regret, because the right-wing and far-right members, particularly the french, including the liberals, voted against it, paying attention to the industrial and economic lobbies.
in writing. the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to object to the commission's delegated regulation establishing a discard plan for the baltic sea, which aims in particular to reduce the conservation reference size for cod in the baltic sea, thus affecting the reproductive capacity of the stock. in addition, the regulation requires a reduction in the conservation reference size for cod from 38 cm to 35 cm. this regulation thus represents the technocratic vision of this european union which is incapable of understanding the real concerns of fishermen by imposing cumbersome and counterproductive standards. that is why i voted for this proposal.
in writing. the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to object to the commission's delegated regulation establishing a discard plan for the baltic sea. the plan includes a reduction in the conservation reference size (from 38 cm to 35 cm) for cod in the baltic sea, thus directly affecting the species' reproductive capacity. the result of the technocratic thinking of the european union, this regulation takes no account at all of the real concerns and needs of fishermen and is simply aimed at imposing ever more rigid and counterproductive standards on them. for these reasons, i voted against this proposal.
in writing. i voted against the resolution objecting to the delegated act establishing a discard plan for the baltic sea. in the light of scientific advice, the commission proposes a reduction in the minimum conservation reference size for cod in the baltic sea. this decline is justified and validated by scientific advice and does not pose a threat to the species. the resolution was therefore not justified. firstly, this baltic sea discharge plan has been accepted by all the member states concerned and is based on sound scientific advice. secondly, the objection would have delayed the implementation of the reform of the common fisheries policy. finally, the objection was also contrary to the regionalisation provided for in the reform of the common fisheries policy. the delegated act is to be adopted before the end of the year. it will provide operators and national authorities with visibility into the implementation of the landing obligation and the de minimis exemption provided for in the reform of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. the european parliament voted in the last parliamentary term for the reform of the common fisheries policy, including a ban on discards or landing obligations. the principle of compulsory landing is a fundamental change for fishermen; the commission has also proposed that the fishing opportunities for the stocks concerned be increased by a further 5% in the case of the fisheries sector. because i prefer this approach, i support the proposal for a delegated regulation and have therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ensuring the economic sustainability of the fisheries sector while preserving the sustainability of fisheries resources is a crucial challenge from both an environmental and an economic point of view. the council's decision to reduce the total allowable catches by 26% in the celtic sea and by 22% in the eastern baltic for the cod stock in 2015 are measures that can protect the species. it therefore seemed to me that adding to these measures a reduction in the minimum conservation reference size for cod in the baltic sea would pose a substantial risk to the socioeconomic balance of the fisheries sector. that is why i rejected this commission delegated regulation.
in writing. a commission delegated regulation of 20 october 2014 aims to amend the minimum conservation reference size for cod in the baltic sea. the resolution put to the vote opposes this amendment. the reduction in the size from which cod can be caught (from 38 to 35 cm) has the potential to harm the reproduction of the stock by creating a market for juvenile fish. i vote for the resolution which opposes this ecological nonsense.
in writing. the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to object to the commission's delegated regulation establishing a discard plan for the baltic sea. the plan includes a reduction in the conservation reference size (from 38 cm to 35 cm) for cod in the baltic sea, which directly affects the species' reproductive capacity. the result of the technocratic thinking of the european union, this regulation takes no account at all of the real concerns and needs of fishermen and is simply aimed at imposing ever more rigid and counterproductive standards on them. for these reasons, i voted against this proposal.
in writing. i am voting against this resolution because it appears from the file that the scientists involved in this matter do not consider that the species or its environment will be affected under such fishing conditions.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 10 october 2014 supplementing directive 2009/138/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) is contrary to that commission delegated act, which weakens the effectiveness of legislation. the commission is constantly revising downwards the risk weight and i have therefore voted in favour of this text which objects to the delegated act.
in writing. the commission is constantly revising downwards the risk weight, which of course weakens the effectiveness of legislation. since the resolution opposes this delegated act, i voted in favour.
in writing. directive 2009/138/ec ('solvency ii'), as amended in 2014, will enter into force on 1 january 2016 and will replace 14 existing directives. in line with the so-called 'bâle ii' requirements, its objective is to create a single european-level prudential regime for insurance and reinsurance undertakings in order to strengthen the risk-taking and to oblige insurers to set aside sufficient capital to meet these risks. the proposal, which was put forward by vice-president michel barnier in the last parliament, aims to make our financial system more robust and capable of coping with crises, thus better protecting our citizens from the vagaries of finance. i believe that the implementation of this legislation is of paramount importance and i am voting against this resolution, which, if adopted, would call into question the very heart of this new european body of prudential rules for insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the union.
in writing. the solvency ii directive, which was voted on in november 2009, is due to enter into force on 1 january 2016. applicable to the insurance sector, the directive aims to encourage organizations to better understand and assess their risks, in particular by adapting regulatory requirements to the risks that companies incur in their activities. the commission's delegated regulation which this motion for a resolution seeks to reject will allow the timetable to be followed and will be in line with the framework of the basic legislative act. that's why i didn't want to be associated with it.
in writing. the solvency ii directive regulates the insurance sector in terms of capital and risk-taking. in this context, the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts. on 10 october 2014, the commission adopted a delegated regulation which deviates significantly from the submitted technical opinions. in particular, it provides for a much lower calibration of the risk factors used to calculate the solvency capital requirement (csr) compared to the recommendations. this shows once again that the commission is at the service of the financial markets rather than the citizens. the resolution before us is opposed to this delegated act which underestimates the risks. i vote for it.
in writing. as regards the solvency of banking institutions, the rules established at european level fall short of the requirements of the bale iii agreements, in particular because of the poor account taken of the risk of default of a sovereign state or a public body. once again, in the context of the texts implementing the solvency ii directive, which concern insurance companies, the commission is weakening the effectiveness of legislation and risk prevention. parliament must ensure that delegated acts do not call into question the principles adopted at level 1 and must also do everything possible to avoid a miscalculation of risks and a solvency crisis in the insurance sector. in the present case, the technical committees called upon to deliver an opinion state that the draft delegated act presented here represents a retreat from both of those points of view. the rejection of the commission delegated regulation should therefore be supported.
in writing. the commission is constantly revising downwards the risk weight, which of course weakens the effectiveness of legislation. since this resolution is against this delegated act, i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which objects to the commission's delegated regulation on 'solvency ii' because it considers that the commission has deviated significantly from the technical advice presented and therefore provides for a far too low calibration of the risk factors used in the standard formula for calculating the solvency capital requirement compared to the ecscr/esacr recommendations.
in writing. solvency ii is a european reform whose official objective is "to better adapt the capital requirements of insurance and reinsurance companies to the risks they incur in their business". the main aim of the proposal, which is intended to provide better protection for insured persons, is to create a single insurance market in the eu and to improve the control of pan-european insurers (55 articles of the directive are devoted to groups). it is in fact penalizing small and mediumsized structures, and particularly mutual societies, by once again denying their specific features. i was already opposed to the adoption of such a directive last march and with its new proposal the commission wants to bring it into force by means of a delegated act, which gives it all the power and removes all control from parliament. i do not think that this is acceptable in substance or form. that is why i voted for this resolution which refused to give the commission any powers and i therefore regret that it was rejected by a large majority of the ppe, s&d, alde and ecr groups.
in writing. the will to renew the eu's internal security strategy will unfortunately not pass through these proposed measures, which are far too weak and far from reality in the face of the security problems facing the member states. the fight against terrorism and jihadism will not be fought by measures of tolerance or social cohesion but by a voluntarist policy that dares to re-establish controls at the eu's borders and abolish the schengen agreements. it is now more than urgent to put an end to this policy of good feelings which endangers the security of the citizens of the union. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i voted against this motion for a resolution on the renewal of the internal security strategy of the european union because the measures envisaged here are ridiculously weak in the face of the serious problems facing the member states. to believe that a policy of 'promoting political and religious tolerance, strengthening social cohesion and openness to all and simplifying reintegration opportunities' will be effective in combating the rise of jihadism is the most culpable naivete because it endangers the peoples of the member states. only the re-establishment of national borders and serious controls will prevent the free movement of established and would-be criminals. it is clear that the eu is incapable of managing its borders, which are like sieves. we must therefore break with the schengen agreements and re-establish our national borders as a matter of urgency.
in writing. the eu's internal security strategy comes to an end this year. it is therefore essential to put in place a new strategy for the next four years that is better adapted to the current security challenges. the problem of european citizens going to conflict zones to fight alongside terrorists must be dealt with as a matter of priority. in this resolution, parliament sets out to the commission the various lines of a coherent internal security policy. i voted in favour of this resolution. the european union was built to provide greater security for european citizens, and this principle must be guaranteed.
in writing. with this very large majority vote, the european commission has been given more than a signal, it is a real order to adapt its internal security strategy to the new challenges facing europeans. the eu must take a strong initiative to respond to the challenge of european jihadists who have joined the ranks of daesh in iraq or syria and who are likely to return to european territory. we need a comprehensive internal security strategy, adapted to the priorities we have set for it, with effective legislative instruments and adequate financial resources.
in writing. the new threats facing europe today are much more diffuse and difficult to understand. i am thinking in particular of the issue of foreign fighters and their radicalisation, of international criminal networks responsible for various forms of trafficking and of cyberattacks. these are threats that ignore national borders and now rely on new technologies to better evade police and judicial controls. to ensure the safety of our citizens, the union must modernise its security strategy and focus on the underlying causes of violence, which are often intolerance and radicalisation, but also the sources of funding for criminal activities. this new strategy must be based on the pooling of member states' resources and must also go hand in hand with the development of a genuine common foreign and defence policy. in this context, parliament will have to ensure that this new security strategy is fully in line with the european charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. the new internal security strategy (iss) will be formally adopted by the council; it is therefore crucial that the european parliament affirms its priorities and reservations in terms of internal security, in advance of the presentation of the new ssi. the development of a union internal security strategy is an ambitious agenda and should provide the necessary foundations for a more multidisciplinary, coherent and long-term approach in this area. in this new year, however, the commission must undertake a more critical evaluation of previous actions and a more forward-looking analysis in the light of new emerging threats. another challenge for the commission is to shape the new ssi by effectively integrating fundamental rights safeguards into all developed policies.
in writing. with the number of jihadist candidates exploding, increasing by 116% since the beginning of the year, it is imperative that europeans jointly review their internal security strategy to integrate these new forms of threats. the european parliament is already taking a position on the forthcoming european commission proposal on the strategy for 2015-2019. however, parliament is not free from confusion and ambiguity. i would remind you that a few weeks ago the liberals, supported by the socialists and the national front, adopted a resolution delaying the entry into force of the pnr with canada, which is an indispensable partner in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. the pnr is an agreement that allows for the transmission of transient data to better detect suspicious behaviour. it is not big brother as we like to think in the collective imagination but a way for the empowered authorities to better protect citizens from possible attacks and attacks. the decision to delay this agreement, which has been negotiated for several years, is reckless and certainly does not meet the demand of citizens to feel safe in their homes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the renewal of the eu's internal security strategy. the current strategy is coming to an end, and the text considers that new threats have emerged and must be taken into account in the renewal of the strategy. priority areas such as cybercrime, trafficking in human beings, the fight against terrorism or the issue of eu-national 'foreign fighters' should be at the heart of the new internal security strategy. i welcome the broad adoption of this resolution.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the renewal of the european union's internal security strategy. the resolution also calls on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's internal security strategy is more closely aligned with the eu's external security policy. in order to meet these new challenges, increased operational cooperation between member states and the provision of appropriate financial resources will be necessary.
in writing. the internal security strategy (iss) for 2010-2014 is coming to an end and a new iss for 2015-2019 is being developed. the resolution proposes that the commission should prioritise "cybersecurity, human trafficking and the fight against terrorism, and closely related issues such as organised crime, money laundering and corruption". the report proposes to 'optimize synergies between instruments under the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and those under justice and home affairs (jha), including exchanges of information and police cooperation'. this confused mix of civil and military security is detrimental to civil liberties and crime-fighting effectiveness. this is particularly so as it will be almost independent agencies that will be responsible for implementing the strategy. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against this motion for a resolution on the renewal of the internal security strategy of the european union because the measures envisaged here are ridiculously weak in the face of the serious problems facing the member states. to believe that a policy of 'promoting political and religious tolerance, strengthening social cohesion and openness to all and simplifying reintegration opportunities' will be effective in combating the rise of jihadism is the most culpable naivete because it endangers the peoples of the member states. only the re-establishment of national borders and serious controls will prevent the free movement of established and would-be criminals. it is clear that the eu is incapable of managing its borders, which are like sieves. we must therefore break with the schengen agreements and re-establish our national borders as a matter of urgency.
in writing. i welcome this motion for a resolution on the security of the union, both internal and external. a more coherent and coordinated europe would save a great deal of money and be more effective, particularly in the fight against crime.
in writing. with this resolution, which i have supported, the european parliament presents its contribution to the union's new internal security strategy. faced with growing threats to its security, the european union needs a comprehensive, coherent and forward-looking response to ensure the protection of its citizens. the increase in the number of european combatants joining terrorist organisations in conflict zones and wishing to return to europe is an undeniable risk to our security. the resolution also calls for the eu to take a comprehensive approach to tackling radicalisation and intolerance, the sources of funding for terrorist organisations and recruitment. cybercrime, trafficking in human beings, organised crime, money laundering and corruption are all equally serious concerns that require coordinated action at european level, with the participation of all member states. the european parliament also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. this is an essential condition for preserving the integrity of the european area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. the current eu internal security strategy is coming to an end and this resolution concerns the next internal security strategy which is expected to be published by the commission in spring 2015. i supported this resolution which calls for a comprehensive, integrated and comprehensive approach in priority areas such as cybercrime, human trafficking and the fight against terrorism. the council also stressed the importance of the issue of 'foreign fighters' and called for enhanced operational cooperation between member states.
in writing. the first eu internal security strategy adopted in 2011 is coming to an end. in anticipation of a future proposal from the european commission, the european parliament (ep) took the initiative to propose its guidelines. the resolution adopted by the majority of the ep is again marked by a largely repressive approach, focusing mainly on the fight against terrorism without taking into account the many violations of fundamental rights which it has given rise to, as the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia after the attacks of 11 september 2001 has just shown. i regret the rejection of the amendments i tabled on behalf of the gue/ngl, calling in particular for the adoption of preventive measures, a multidimensional approach to security that includes the fight against inequalities and discrimination and an independent and contradictory evaluation of the current strategy. i therefore voted against this resolution, which does not take stock of the current policies which are increasingly undermining fundamental rights without demonstrating their effectiveness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be ungrateful to ourselves. many here have been trying to prevent this vote for a month, eurosceptics as well as conservatives. they would have preferred the european parliament to sit on the sidelines and watch the train of history pass once again. well, no, you won't. europe is, for once, in its right place in favour of peace and it is writing it down in black and white. of course, this resolution has its shortcomings: it does not condemn, for example, israeli settlement activity, which is one of the major obstacles to peace and the two-state solution that we advocate in the text. i hope that the un security council, which is soon to vote on a motion calling for the end of settlements by 2016, will have the courage to say "stop". nevertheless, we can be proud to join the voices of the other national parliaments in the european union, which have also called for recognition of the palestinian state in recent weeks. today our palestinian and israeli friends know that we stand with them in these times. let us hope that the wind of hope from europe will help them to establish the state of palestine they have long been demanding.
in writing. following the adoption by many national parliaments of motions on the recognition of the palestinian state in recent weeks, i welcome the fact that the european parliament has in turn drafted and voted a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine. it is an act of justice and peace to move towards a final settlement of this conflict. the current political impasse is reinforcing the most radical elements and hate speech at the expense of innocent civilians every day. the status quo is untenable and dangerous. this commitment is also a call for the resumption of negotiations and the unblocking of the peace process. it is part of our collective will to contribute to the international effort for peace in the middle east and to end the vicious cycle of violence. the socialists have always supported this desire for reconciliation between the israeli and palestinian peoples, based, in accordance with the united nations resolutions, on the existence of two sovereign and democratic states living side by side in peace and security, on the basis of the 1967 lines, with jerusalem as the capital of both states.
in writing. i abstained because i denounce the hypocrisy of the european union which claims to recognize a state when it is constantly fighting the sovereignty of its member states.
in writing. i abstained on this vote on the recognition of the palestinian state because i consider that only sovereign states can recognize another state. despite my desire to see a free and independent palestinian state recognised and to achieve a lasting peace in the deadly conflict between it and israel, this text must not fall within the competence of the supranational entity of the eu.
in writing. the recognition of a third state, a prerogative under international law reserved to a sovereign state, should not be delegated to the european union. it is therefore unacceptable to put to the vote in the european parliament a text which so violates international law and custom. however, i support the palestinian authority in its noble struggle for the recognition of a palestinian state within the 1967 borders and for the holy city of jerusalem to be placed under an international mandate. that is why i abstained on the vote on this resolution by the european parliament.
in writing. the conflict in the middle east persists despite efforts to negotiate a peace process for the region. the resolution i voted for recalls the importance of mutual recognition and the need to establish two states based on the 1967 borders. these are the conditions for the cessation of all violence. we cannot tolerate an escalation of violence and terrorist acts as we have seen in recent months.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state in order to facilitate the acceleration of the peace process and the recognition of two states with defined borders. it's a powerful message in these violent times we live in. it is also important to call on the peoples of europe to combat the growing and alarming anti-semitism and islamophobia.
in writing. as a french patriot, i preferred to abstain on this text for several reasons. first of all, i want to emphasize that i am in favour of the idea of two states, palestine and israel. i cannot, however, accept hamas, the islamist terrorist group, as a legitimate interlocutor. moreover, with this resolution the european union is showing its inconsistency by supporting palestinian sovereignty on the one hand and denying the sovereignty of the european peoples on the other. i could not therefore vote in favour of this new willingness to interfere on the part of an organisation which is prepared to deal with terrorists but which refuses to allow the citizens of its own member states to speak freely.
in writing. the adoption of this resolution by a very large majority is the result of successful negotiations which have enabled the european parliament to reach a united position. i have therefore supported in principle the recognition of a palestinian state and the two-state solution, which must be pursued in conjunction with peace negotiations. the resolution rightly points out, however, that despite this political message from the european parliament, it remains the responsibility of the member states to recognize a palestinian state.
in writing. the european parliament voted by a very large majority, 498 votes in favour of the resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state, against 88. it is a strong signal for the two-state solution and for peace. and for the first time in its history, the european parliament has expressed a balanced position vis-à-vis both sides. after the dramatic events of recent months for israelis and palestinians, with the increase in tensions and the inexorable rise in violence in that part of the world, we wanted this recognition to be inseparable from the need to resume peace talks as a matter of urgency. as the resolution emphasizes, it is essential that political leaders from all sides work together to calm the situation, because only non-violent means and respect for human rights will lead to a lasting solution and a just peace between the two peoples. the resolution calls on europe to play its full part in the peace process and to become an indispensable actor and mediator. it's about time!
in writing. the resolution proposed to parliament is vague and offers no real prospect for improving relations between the jewish state and the palestinian territories. the european union cannot claim the right to decide on the sovereignty of another state. finally, the current borders of the palestinian territories are not satisfactory for the palestinians and are still being discussed. in such circumstances, it is wise and realistic not to intervene in this way. i therefore decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. the search for a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians is a major concern for the international community, including the european union. that is why i abstained on wednesday morning from voting on the resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state. it must not be immediately recognized as the state of palestine without a mutual peace process, fully committed to, being initiated by both sides. the current situation is too serious, too many acts of violence and too real a risk of confusion. the conditions were not right, so i refused to give explicit support to this text, which was being used by the left.
in writing. i wholeheartedly support this resolution. this is a very symbolic act on the part of our assembly, all the more so since it received the votes of two thirds of the members. peace talks between israel and palestine are now at an impasse. to make peace, we must view the other person as a legitimate interlocutor. that's not the case today. the international community must take action to change this situation. the european union has a role to play in this process. the union has repeatedly stated its support for the two-state solution, based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both the state of israel and an independent state of palestine, living side by side in peace and security. the existence of a palestinian state cannot be made conditional on peace but must, on the contrary, be regarded as one of the ways of achieving peace. we socialists and democrats in the european parliament have always worked from this perspective. i hope that similar initiatives will be taken in other national parliaments in europe. i hope that this movement will help to get the israeli authorities to reconsider the question of the sovereignty of the palestinian people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the recognition of palestine. the text provided a balanced answer to this question by reiterating its support for the two-state solution, based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both entities, namely the state of israel whose security is assured and an independent, democratic, united and viable state of palestine living side by side in peace and security, on the basis of the right to self-determination and in strict respect of international law. the resolution therefore supports the principle of recognising the palestinian state, while calling for an end to divisions between palestinians and recalling the illegal nature of israeli settlements. i welcome the adoption of this resolution.
in writing. i did not wish to vote in favour of this resolution because its title and several paragraphs remained ambiguous. it is not conceivable to unilaterally and unconditionally recognize the palestinian state. the two-state solution must be the culmination of the peace process, not the prerequisite. the european union must therefore strengthen its role in the middle east and work to relaunch peace talks in order to guarantee israel's security and make possible a viable and democratic palestinian state based on the 1967 borders with jerusalem as the capital of both states.
in writing. i would like to explain why i abstained on this resolution. after the votes of the french national assembly and senate, as well as those of several other european parliaments in recent weeks, the european parliament also wanted to make a statement. but the resolution put to the vote is significantly different from those voted in the french parliament. it is not a question of unilaterally recognising a palestinian state. it is a joint resolution, the result of laborious negotiations, a resolution between political groups which follows a twofold approach: the recognition of a palestinian state, but also the guarantee of the security and stability of the state of israel. it also called for the urgent resumption of talks in favour of the peace process. however, although the resolution states that recognition of a palestinian state would only be possible with the emergence of a negotiated solution with israel, the title of the report, 'recognition of a palestinian state', and some paragraphs do not satisfy me fully, and i have therefore chosen to abstain. i would like to remind you that neither my political group, the epp, nor the ump, are in favour of unilateral recognition of a palestinian state.
in writing. i abstained on the question of the recognition of the palestinian state, as i consider that it is not the competence of the union to recognise states. that is a prerogative of the states. this vote is therefore a further attack on the sovereignty of the member states of the union. on the substance of the matter, i would point out that i am in favour of the creation of a palestinian state, provided that israel's security is guaranteed.
in writing. abstention from voting. it is not for the european parliament to take the initiative in recognising a state.
in writing. finally, the european union proposes a firm resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state, 67 years after the un partition plan. the resolution recognises the state of palestine within the 1967 borders and with jerusalem as the capital of both states. it will be an important point of reference for the representatives of the palestinian people, particularly in their approaches to international bodies, to force israel to respect the national rights of the palestinian people. i regret, however, that there is no mention of the blockade of gaza or the oppression of the palestinians by the israeli army. the conflict there is not between two equal parties but between a colonized people and a colonial state. however, this resolution will be an additional tool of struggle in the hands of the representatives of the palestinian people who approve it. i vote for it.
in writing. i abstained on this resolution despite my sincere wish for a recognised palestinian state, on the grounds that it is not for the european union to recognise or not to recognise a state. this is not within its competence and only a sovereign state can recognize or not recognize another sovereign state. it is therefore totally abnormal to put to the vote a text which is by its nature illegal and illegitimate.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state tabled jointly by five political groups in the european parliament. this just and necessary resolution, following the announcements of the swedish government and the house of commons of the united kingdom, was a key step in the process of peace talks between the two states. for more than 50 years, the search for a lasting peace between palestine and israel, now a vital issue, has been a central concern of the european union, the guarantor of the rule of law, democracy and peace between nations. the current situation has become critical and highly worrying, and this resolution strongly condemns the acts of violence perpetrated by both sides, which endanger the lives and security of the population. it is urgent to create a climate of appeasement in order to initiate and support the peace and negotiation efforts, which are now extremely slow or even suspended. i am proud to support the diplomatic actions that will be undertaken between the european union, israel and palestine, contributing to the broader middle east peace process.
in writing. i did not take part in the vote on this point for the simple reason that i do not agree with the proposed text or with the recognition of a palestinian state. the situation in the region, the facts of this conflict, do not call for this kind of initiative but for tact and diplomacy. abstention would have given the impression that i was refusing to take a position on this text; by not voting, i mean it wasn't the right tool.
in writing. i believe that there can be a solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict only if both actors can negotiate on equal terms and if the hypocrisy that leads to the permanent discrimination of the palestinian people is stopped. therefore, i voted in favour of eu recognition of the palestinian state, which i believe will be an important step towards resolving this conflict and peace in the middle east.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. i was the originator of this motion for a resolution by the s&d group and i believe that the compromise reached is a step forward in the search for peace between a peaceful and secure state of israel and a future sovereign state of palestine. the diplomatic pressure is important and the european parliament has a direct role to play here.
in writing. thanks to the commitment of the european socialists who initiated this initiative, the european parliament adopted by a very large majority a resolution in favour of the recognition of the palestinian state. even if the text could have been more ambitious in its wording, this vote marks a turning point for the european union, which has worked tirelessly throughout its history for a two-state solution. the european parliament has thus chosen to join the other national parliaments in adopting resolutions in favour of the recognition of the palestinian state. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. they also sent a message to the palestinian and israeli authorities to re-establish dialogue and relaunch peace negotiations. this resolution is a first step towards giving hope to europe for recognition. it also supports the efforts of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, to make the european union a driving force in the middle east peace process.
in writing. the european parliament adopted by a large majority (498 votes in favour, 88 against and 111 abstentions) the joint resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state. having supported and co-signed this text, i ask that the european union take up its responsibilities and finally become a real player in the middle east. the resolution also urges the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, to do all she can to facilitate a common eu position on this issue. finally, it should also be noted that the resolution calls for the creation of an initiative 'parliamentarians for peace', the aim of which is to bring together european, israeli and palestinian parliamentarians. this would allow discussions on the situation in the middle east to move forward.
in writing. the european parliament may have made history by adopting a resolution expressing its support for the recognition of the palestinian state by a very large majority on 17 december. it is the member states that have competence in this area and not the eu, but it is nevertheless a more than symbolic vote in favour of peace. 135 countries, or 70% of the un member states, have already recognized this long-awaited recognition by the palestinian people. only eight eu states have done so, most recently sweden, and several national parliaments, including the french, british and spanish. the ep is right to take this approach in the face of a conflict which has gone on for too long and for which the 'international community' has a heavy responsibility. the eu is urged to act by using all means to put pressure on the state of israel. this resolution should have been less conditional. peace can only be built between two legally equal partners. the rights of the palestinians as they have been enshrined in un resolutions for so many years must be recognized. the ep resolution recalls the main principles in this area. it is with great pride that i voted for this resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the technocrats in brussels are pouring good intentions into us. the steel industry, particularly in france, is in a bad way. factories are closing down and the few companies that remain are being bought by indian or chinese conglomerates. in france, production has fallen by almost 40% in thirty years while demand has increased. this is the direct consequence of the policy pursued by brussels for decades: the policy of eliminating customs protection, the policy of absolute free trade. the measures proposed by brussels to try to plug the cracks in the sinking ship are an insult to the hundreds of thousands of steelworkers who have been unemployed for thirty years. they expect their leaders to finally conduct a policy that serves the people, not the high finance and capital.
in writing. i am not satisfied with this text, but it does contain some positive points, in the sense of a draft of european protectionism.
in writing. since the debate on the situation of the steel industry in europe on 26 november, it has become clear that the commission's declaration, full of beautiful phrases and pious wishes, is only becoming a reality when the european parliament's motions for resolutions are voted. your solutions do not provide any concrete answers to the ills that affect this industry. worse, your europe of finance and free and undistorted competition will only make the situation worse. in addition, many reports clearly show unfair competition from emerging countries and an increase in trade-damaging measures such as trade barriers. but the european union prefers to keep on running forward, proposing ever fewer borders, ever more free trade and ever more standards. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. although this text is generally imperfect, because it does not call ultra-liberal policies into question, it is nevertheless a step forward and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which has some interesting aspects, although i consider that it does not solve the serious structural rather than cyclical difficulties faced by the steel industry in the european union and in france in particular. difficulties mainly linked to the ultra-liberal dogma and free and undistorted competition imposed directly by brussels.
in writing. it is crucial to defend the european steel sector, especially in this period of economic and financial crisis. the sector employs some 350 000 people and is a key industrial base. we must do everything we can to make the european steel industry competitive in the face of competition from the rest of the world. the reindustrialisation of the european economy must be a priority. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the steel sector is facing a very serious crisis; i have therefore been keen to support employment by encouraging investment, research, innovation and training of workers, especially as these professions are making constant efforts to take account of the reduction of co2 emissions.
in writing. the european steel industry is currently experiencing the simultaneous effects of low demand and global overcapacity combined with high energy prices. this is leading to a continuous loss of jobs and competitiveness in the sector. it is essential, in the interests of the european union as a whole, to preserve the activities which feed its industrial fabric and to ensure the security of energy supply through domestic production. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry is able to compete with the other steel industries. the resolution calls on the european commission to provide, in the short term, a clear picture of the situation with regard to the major changes taking place in the steel industry in europe and to attach greater importance to industrial policy in order to revive the competitiveness of european industry on the world market. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. in france, as in the rest of europe, the steel industry is suffering from the combined effect of lower demand and strong international competition, which is not subject to the same social and environmental requirements. since 2007, production has increased from 210 million tonnes to 166 million tonnes in 2013, resulting in the loss of 60,000 jobs. by voting for this resolution, i wanted to encourage the modernisation of products and processes in the steel industry to make it more competitive, and i also called on the european commission to consider the strategic position of the industry and the establishment of a steel market analysis tool.
in writing. europe must not abandon its steel industry, which is competing internationally with cheaper production costs. we are producing high quality steel and we would be making a mistake, losing know-how and jobs if we did not give it the means to become competitive again. of course, europe must focus on the economic sectors in which it is already competitive and strengthen its comparative advantages, but deindustrialisation is a serious danger to its economy. to avoid this, we must aim to ensure that our competition policy is in line with an ambitious european industrial policy and support major european sectoral programmes in the fields of innovation and research, particularly in favour of the steel industry.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the european steel industry needs special attention. i therefore hope that the member states will consider introducing measures which can reduce the burden of high energy costs on the steel industry in europe compared to its global competitors. i also want the commission to continue to ensure the continued monitoring of concerns about carbon leakage and environmental dumping related to carbon dioxide, and to consider measures that could address this situation for the post-2020 energy-climate framework. finally, i stress the importance of continuing investment in research into carbon capture and storage, as significant progress in this area could, in the longer term, significantly reduce overall emissions in the steel sector. finally, i am pleased that the resolution insists on the introduction of a carbon tax at the border and a complementary label 'made in europe'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution calling for a new industrial policy to help the european steel industry cope with the world market and protect its workers. the steel industry is a major employer in the european union, providing 350 000 direct jobs and several million more in related sectors. this text demonstrates the importance for the eu's forestry sector of achieving good environmental performance in the face of increasing global competition by improving access to raw materials, a major challenge when competitors do not have to comply with the same standards and objectives. the european parliament has called for research and development to be carried out to find a way of reducing emissions, particularly co2. several other proposals were made, such as the importance of investing in the education and training of workers or the promotion of a programme of skills transfer to enable skilled workers of a certain age to pass on their knowledge and skills to newly recruited staff in european steelworks.
in writing. i am always very attentive to initiatives that highlight the importance of protecting our strategic interests and industry is one of them. the resolution reaffirms the priority interest of reindustrialisation for europe, in particular the role of the steel sector, which represents 350 000 direct jobs. it stressed the need to safeguard european industries by developing a genuine industrial policy for europe and welcomed the work being done to this end (steel action plan in 2013, working document in 2014, high-level group on steel, etc.). the factories in difficulty such as gandrange and florange in france prove that we can no longer watch the decomposition of our industrial fabric without reacting because it is entire families, businesses that depend on it and entire regions that are destabilized by it. i hope that this resolution will be a shock wave and not just another signal that will once again fall into the limbo of the european bureaucracy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the steel sector in the european union for the protection of workers and businesses. i believe that industry must be a pillar of our economies, providing stable and quality jobs in europe. to this end, the sector must not only be protected against social and environmental dumping but also be given a new lease of life. in order to promote european production, i have advocated the introduction of a complementary label, made in europe.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this resolution which stresses the key role of the steel sector for european industry and the economy. this is an innovative sector, important in terms of the internal market and the labour force, but facing many challenges (high energy and raw material prices, strong competition, restructuring and relocations). the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the state aid rules to the steel industry. however, eu efforts in this area are worth pursuing to address the challenges facing the sector. the high level group on steel, set up to encourage dialogue between stakeholders and strengthen cooperation between member states, is to propose solutions for sites undergoing restructuring (e.g. florange). the globalisation adjustment fund and the european social fund should be appropriately mobilised to improve the resilience of the steel sector.
in writing. it is essential to safeguard our interests in this key industrial sector, both in terms of employment (350,000 workers in the eu) and its role vis-à-vis other industrial sectors. we therefore wanted to support this sector which has suffered a great deal and which, despite the many adaptations it has undergone, needs support in its efforts to innovate and to carry out research and development. i therefore approved the implementation of the 2013 steel action plan. in particular, european steelworks must continue their work on innovation to strengthen their competitiveness. this is a crucial step towards the reindustrialisation of our continent, which the epp group has made one of its political priorities. we believe that the european union must remain a land of industrial production, with modernised heavy industry, adapted to the challenges of the 21st century.
in writing. the joint resolution on steel calls for a real relaunch of european industrial policy. this revival is particularly important in the steel sector, which has been deliberately neglected since the end of the ecsc treaty. the joint resolution therefore calls for support and aid for investment in the sector and, more importantly, for competition rules not to 'mortgage the economic viability of the various steelworks' as they have done in the past. this is important because it is this competition policy which prohibits us from providing direct aid to the sector. the joint resolution does not mention our reference to the florange site, or the need to maintain our production capacity for this strategic industry and for many other sectors. but his challenge to competition policy, his warning of the dangers of dumping via future trade agreements and his call for greater involvement of workers and their representatives in training programmes and, where appropriate, restructuring could not but be supported.
in writing. this non-binding resolution expresses good intentions towards the steel sector. it proposes that the high european standards for climate and environmental protection become global standards. it affirms the need for the full involvement of the social partners at all levels. it is also a question of addressing the investment crisis in europe, but without specifying how. but ultimately, the main objective is to remove obstacles and risks to the competitiveness of the european steel industry. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which has some interesting aspects, although i consider that it does not solve the serious structural rather than cyclical difficulties faced by the steel industry in the european union and in france in particular. difficulties mainly linked to the ultra-liberal dogma and free and undistorted competition imposed directly by brussels.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i support the steel action plan which puts industry in general, and the steel industry in particular, at the centre of european policy choices, particularly in view of the critical situation of this sector in european countries, which is leading to relocations and unemployment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i support fair trade through a co2 cap adjustment in the steel sector. that is the meaning of this resolution, which seeks to restore a balance in competition between steel companies, particularly with regard to those which pollute the most with impunity.
in writing. the steel industry in europe is facing many challenges, including restructuring. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution which supports coordinated action by the member states in a key area of european integration. the steel industry must also be able to benefit from advantages due to the quality of the steel as it is produced in europe and its lower carbon footprint. i therefore vote in favour of amendments which recognize these qualities.
in writing. in addition to its role in the european construction project, the steel industry is of crucial importance to our economies. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which puts forward a series of proposals to reform this sector and try to preserve the many jobs it still represents in europe: investing in training workers as well as in research and innovation, in particular with a view to reducing the environmental impact of these activities, making the best use of available european resources (european social fund, european globalisation adjustment fund and innovative financial instruments), engaging the social partners on the changes to be made and taking into account the interests of the sector in the context of european trade and competition policies. of course, many of these proposals should have been implemented long ago, but i believe it is not too late to save the steel soldier. the competition from emerging economies reminds us every day of the urgency of changing this sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which rightly recalls the historic role of steel in the european construction project and calls for action to help workers in this sector, which is suffering the consequences of the current economic crisis. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. support for the european steel industry is a response to the investment crisis in the sector, which is in dire need of training its workers and developing research and innovation in order to reduce its environmental impact and improve its competitiveness. the european union has answers to give and our assembly asks the commission to act in this regard.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which is part of the preparation of the european commission's roadmap for industrial policy announced for the first half of 2015. our european industry is a key element in the recovery of the european economy. it is important to resume a bold research and investment policy in order to develop our steelworks and their capacity for innovation. the know-how and expertise developed in major industrial clusters will thus guarantee diversification, environmental protection and the development of innovative products.
in writing. steel is essential to european industry, but the european union and its member states are still unable to come up with a real plan for the recovery of the steel industry in crisis, taking into account environmental issues. this resolution is in line with the previous ones, whereas it is time to make proposals that meet both the economic and environmental needs of the sector and the expectations of employees, as the social challenges cannot be met independently of the rest. yes, that is a real challenge. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. what about the interests of the employees? the responsibility of public authorities and elected representatives is to accompany them, to help them to build proposals, and not simply to condemn them. this resolution provides some guarantees for the protection of the environment and the social rights of workers and, although they are far below what might be expected, they have led me to abstain.
in writing. i voted against this text which once again demonstrates the blindness of the european institutions to the real problems and the means of dealing with them. faced with the same type of problems, massive illegal immigration by sea leading to tragedies, australia decided to pursue a policy opposite to that of the european union. now, thanks to the aptly named "operation sovereign borders", no icellal immigrant is allowed into australia, much less "regulated". this message of firmness, relayed through an effective communication campaign, including deterrent video clips broadcast in the immigrants' home countries, has produced exceptional results. the european union would do well to follow suit.
in writing. following operation mare nostrum and now operation triton, the european union is opening a route for migration from africa through the mediterranean. thousands of migrants risk their lives on makeshift boats and these rescue operations only encourage them to take the first step towards the 'european eldorado'. it is through these operations that nearly 150 000 illegal immigrants arrive in europe each year, thus entering the schengen area and moving about freely. on operation triton, the british foreign secretary, joyce anelay, very clearly announced that britain would not support the operation, stating: "we believe that (these operations) create an unintended 'attraction factor', encouraging more migrants to attempt the dangerous sea crossing and thus leading to more tragic and unnecessary deaths". it is becoming more than urgent to be as firm on immigration as australia is, to re-establish our borders, to fight criminal networks and to allow each state to decide its own sovereign migration policy. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. the text 'considers it necessary to consider strengthening security and border policy'. it's about time! finally, brussels is becoming aware of the dangers of migration flows! the commission's response was regrettable: 'to improve the future mandate of frontex and the european asylum office' and 'to ask member states to continue to show solidarity and to demonstrate their commitment by making a sufficient contribution to the budgets and operations of these agencies'. how reassuring! the people of europe are groaning and the european institutions are desperately deaf. it's time to stop the vacuum pumps that attract guests we can't accommodate.
in writing. the resolution, which seems less angelic than usual, nevertheless supports operation triton, continues to call for the establishment of a european immigration policy and for the strengthening of the common asylum system to better distribute the demand expressed by illegal migrants. we believe, on the contrary, that the member states must at all costs withdraw from the schengen area and re-establish national borders. it should also be recalled that 3 072 people died in the mediterranean sea during the first nine months of 2014. these deaths are not the result of the so-called lack of generosity of europeans, but of the migrants' hope of receiving hospitality that no member state is able to offer. it is therefore only a firm policy, such as that pursued by australia, that will prevent such human tragedies. that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. the migration policy of the mediterranean needs special attention. we must act on the tragedies of illegal immigration, such as the tragedy of lampedusa. the text which parliament has approved proposes a comprehensive approach to migration. i voted yes. the resolution mentions the importance of restoring responsibility equitably between member states and showing solidarity with those countries which receive the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers on their territory. the operational and financial strengthening of frontex is also highlighted. we need to guarantee the european citizens the best possible security at the external borders of the union.
in writing. managing migration flows in europe is a major concern of european citizens. with this resolution we are calling for more solidarity between the member states, whether in the management of asylum applications or in the various operations to strengthen border controls. but we also call on the european commission to listen to our demands for a reinforcement of the frontex agency, which is essential for the protection of the external borders. a recent report by the office of the high commissioner for refugees reported that nearly 3,500 migrants have died in the mediterranean since the beginning of the year. in the face of this tragedy, let us act without further delay!
in writing. if there is one big issue that requires a common european response, it is the issue of migration. it is really time for the heads of state and government to move forward to build a common immigration policy which must be based on four pillars. the first is a real security and a real surveillance and protection of our external borders, by air, by land, by sea, with, amongst others, european coast guards. the second point is the corollary of this: we must have a regulated right of entry into the european union with, why not, country quotas in immigration. the third point is perhaps the most urgent: we need to harmonize our right to asylum. we cannot continue with six-month to five-year deadlines for an answer depending on the country. this is not reasonable. fourthly, we obviously need a development policy, a real partnership with the countries of origin and a foreign policy which contributes to the stability of the countries around us.
in writing. on wednesday morning i voted in favour of a european parliament resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive approach to migration by the european union. according to the international organisation for migration, 3 072 people died in the mediterranean in the first nine months of 2014, which once again illustrates the imperative for each member state to carry out its search and rescue operations in accordance with our moral and international obligations. however, i would like to stress that the european union must also strengthen its border controls in order to avoid, in particular, the air calls which most often lead to dramatic situations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive approach to the issue of migration by the union. while the european commission and the council have presented a series of actions to be taken, notably in the context of the mediterranean task force, it is essential that parliament in turn adopt a more proactive strategy, not merely reacting to the various commission communications or even to the council conclusions, but affirming its role as a force of proposals in the migration debate. on the basis of the findings and recommendations of this inquiry, parliament should propose an alternative migration policy for europe that addresses these issues in a comprehensive and cross-cutting approach that includes: legal migration pathways, whether existing or to be promoted; effective access to asylum procedures and the development of alternatives for persons seeking international protection; and a renewed partnership with third countries on the basis of equal cooperation and mutually beneficial interaction. in any case, it is the impetus and the reorientation that we socialists intend to defend in the european parliament.
in writing. meps adopted a resolution on the situation in the mediterranean on wednesday, calling for a comprehensive approach to migration. this resolution is a good initiative, but i regret that no significant progress has been made since the adoption of the european pact on immigration and asylum, which i was the architect of in 2008. what major initiatives have been undertaken since the pact, which brought together governments of the right, the left and the communist parties? i welcome the adoption of this resolution which recalls the urgent need to develop a comprehensive approach to better manage migration flows. however, this appeal from the european parliament also shows that europe is now more reactive than active. the resolution proposes a fair sharing of responsibility and greater solidarity with the member states receiving the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers, financial and operational reinforcement of frontex, a comprehensive strategy for cooperation with third countries, in particular on resettlement and return, and the criminalization of human trafficking and illegal immigration.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in the mediterranean. the text calls for a fair sharing of responsibility, greater solidarity with member states receiving the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers and strong criminal sanctions against trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. faced with the repetition of human tragedies linked to illegal immigration in the mediterranean, the european response has been long overdue. i therefore welcome the vote on this resolution which insists on a fair sharing of responsibility and greater solidarity with the member states which receive the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers. it was also important to advocate the financial and operational strengthening of frontex and the european asylum support office (easo) and to call for strong criminal sanctions against the channels of human trafficking and illegal immigration. in addition, the eu must commit to a comprehensive strategy of cooperation with third countries in aid, co-development and enforcement to discourage illegal immigration.
in writing. this resolution was the result of a long battle against the right. it was not to replicate the position adopted during the tragic events in lampedusa, which was centred on an exclusively police vision of migration. this time, increased funding for the committee responsible for migration policies was obtained. it is proposed to "explore other legal immigration routes", to ensure the reintegration of migrants and to improve the means of rescue at sea. however, this is not required by the international obligations to which the member states have acceded. the resolution seeks to recall that migrants are victims of human traffickers and smugglers. but it fails to point out that they are also victims of the eu's aggressive trade policies. i abstain in order not to prevent a text which has the merit of allocating a research mandate and funds to the committee of parliament to look at another migration policy. it's a start.
in writing. the migratory pressure at europe's borders has been increasing unprecedentedly since the beginning of the year. the lucrative smuggling networks exploit human misery, as do some unscrupulous employers. the european approach is intended to be balanced in its content, between condemnation of these networks and the need to develop return assistance. nevertheless, it demonstrated in practice that the mass arrival of illegal immigrants was perceived as inevitable. the union is imposing on the member states a burden that economies already on the verge of social asphyxiation can no longer bear. in addition, the influx of illegal immigrants destabilizes political asylum procedures, which are hijacked for economic reasons. in the end, it is necessary above all to unite the forces of the member states to fight with means that are incomparable to what the mafias are today and to show signs of firmness to those who are seeking exile. the solution also lies in development aid and the cessation of support for corrupt regimes, rather than in naive and passive reception policies. faced with the demographic pressure of the african continent, europe in recession cannot continue to take in more economic refugees.
in writing. the european union's attitude to the situation of illegal immigration in the mediterranean is completely unacceptable. with operations like mare nostrum and now triton, which aim to retrieve migrants in the middle of the mediterranean and bring them directly to european soil, the european union has created an air of appeal to those seeking illegal immigration. it has also sent a signal of encouragement to unscrupulous smugglers, who are not afraid to deliberately put in the sea vessels in bad condition so that migrants can be rescued. as australia has recently strengthened its migration policy, solutions must be national and firmly enforced. i voted against this resolution, of course.
in writing. in the context of the critical situation of migration in the mediterranean, this resolution focuses on the establishment of a committee of inquiry and calls for greater solidarity and responsibility on the part of the eu member states. the eu's capacity for rescue at sea needs to be improved urgently to prevent the mediterranean from continuing to be a huge graveyard for refugees. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the tragedies taking place in the mediterranean need to be given greater attention by the european union, which must strengthen the coordinated action of its member states. i therefore welcome this resolution, which also calls for an increase in the financial resources of frontex and for the union's cooperation with third countries on this issue.
in writing. on the eve of international migrants day, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the mediterranean which defends the need for a comprehensive european approach to migration. according to the united nations high commissioner for refugees, the mediterranean has become the world's deadliest route for migrants. this sad fact calls for an urgent and coordinated response by the european union and its member states. meps call for a coherent and supportive migration policy, a more humane and protective policy towards migrants and asylum seekers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. the european states must become more aware of this by making greater financial commitments to search and rescue at sea and to the reception of migrants. ensuring safe routes for refugees and asylum seekers to europe and opening new legal channels of migration will also improve the situation in the long term. faced with the challenge of migration, europe must finally do everything it can to succeed.
in writing. i supported this resolution which is a first step towards a comprehensive approach by the european union to the situation in the mediterranean and the issue of migration. this comprehensive approach to migration will allow for a fair sharing of responsibility and greater solidarity with member states receiving the largest number of refugees and asylum seekers. the commission is also proposing to set up a comprehensive strategy for cooperation with third countries and to strengthen the financing and operation of the frontex agency and the european asylum support office. i welcome the adoption of this resolution; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. more and more migrants are dying in the mediterranean. this year has been one of the most disastrous in this respect: more than 3 200 people have died on the way to europe. it is therefore welcome that several political groups in the european parliament have mobilised to try to call for a committee of inquiry to take stock of the situation and propose a number of responses to this tragedy. unfortunately, the right wing of this house has been engaged in indecent blackmail to limit the scope of this resolution, trying to limit it to the same old slogans: more cooperation with third countries, more return and readmission, strengthening the mandate of frontex (and therefore more and more closure of borders). this resolution is therefore not as ambitious as we had requested, but it will allow the european parliament to continue its reflection on these issues, in particular by giving more resources to its committee on civil liberties. we therefore abstained in order to denounce this overly restrictive approach, but also to demonstrate our willingness to continue to work and to fight against these deadly policies.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr secretary of state, mr commissioner and ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, at your hearing before parliament, to my great surprise, you said that you were not aware of the case. i am glad to see that things have changed. because let's face it, there is nothing new in these 600 pages of the senate report, but confirmations! confirmation of the collaboration of european governments and the existence of cia prisons on eu soil; confirmation of the futility of torture beyond its ignoble nature; confirmation that the actions of the secret services must be supervised and scrupulously controlled, their violations punished; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the publication of this report calls for a new stage in the mobilization for the construction of true international justice. the scale of crime requires imagination and legal audacity. do you not think that it is also, and above all, a call for transparency and action from the european union, some of whose leaders have directly collaborated on this programme? the facts are there, the evidence is clear. the european union and its member states must assume their responsibilities and facilitate prosecutions. the european parliament must continue its work of investigation and recovery in the field of transparency if the whole truth is to be known: organising hearings and delegations from the libe committee to the secret prisons is the bare minimum. now that the facts are confirmed, that we know that the fundamental rights of the union have been violated, do you not think that articles 6 and 7 of the treaty on european union should be applied and the necessary sanctions implemented? finally, let us remember that the terrorists want only one thing: the destruction of the system of values represented by democracies. by fighting them by methods that are prohibited by law, we are turning ourselves into unwitting auxiliaries of the terrorist logic. making full transparency about the complicity in this program, revealing the truth and bringing justice will not make the bed of terrorism, as some fear. on the contrary, it is a fight for our values, and a fight for a strengthened democracy.
mr president, the report that has just been published reveals that the cia has been practicing torture for several years. these revelations are not surprising: many examples show that the united states has become an aggressive power that we must be wary of. the wikileaks scandal revealed in 2013 that the nsa has engaged in large-scale espionage, even at the expense of allied heads of state and government, like françois hollande and angela merkel. in 1996, the us congress decided to impose the helms-burton and amato-kennedy laws on the world, in violation of public international law. in line with these laws, the united states has just fined a french bank, bnp paribas, 6.5 billion euros in 2014 for simply working with states on its blacklist. back in 2014, they deliberately destabilized ukraine, risking a war with russia. how many more provocations and humiliations will the european union have to endure before it understands that it is time to react by refusing to sign the transatlantic treaty?
mr president, mr minister, what happened in turkey last sunday is like a meticulously planned raid on independent journalists who are listened to by the general public. in 13 cities across the country, journalists, editors, and the president of a television station were arrested. their only fault is investigating the regime's policies and telling the truth about corruption. and now, according to reports, 150 journalists are threatened with arrest by the end of this month. the european authorities must be extremely firm in the face of these serious infringements of freedom of information. there is no democracy without it and i believe, mr minister, on behalf of the council, that you should not accept mr erdoğan's morgue. now we must step up pressure to free all journalists who are in prison or in custody and to stop these attacks on press freedom. let us put our institutions at the service of journalists under threat and strongly denounce the interference and pressure exerted by the turkish authorities on the judiciary. the european union must stop placing its trade or foreign policy above the fundamental principle of freedom and the right to inform and be informed and the principle of the independence of the judiciary; it must instead use this leverage to ensure that the states which are considered to be our partners respect human rights and freedoms above all. we believe that human rights are far more important than market law.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again you have proof that turkey is not a democratic country. once again, the press is muzzled by the erdoğan system. we are experimenting with a police system with turkey. nothing seems to stop erdoğan today. at least he's the one who's arresting, putting people in jail. ten years ago we opened negotiations with turkey. as a member of the delegation for relations with turkey, i have two solutions to offer: on the one hand, to end visa liberalization and, on the other hand, to end all negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on: the recommendation of andrejs mamikins, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part (09827/2014 c80129/2014 2014/0086nle ((()) (a80041/2014), and the report of andrejs mamikins, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, containing a proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision approving the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part (a80042/2014 (ini)) (a80042/2014).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with this association agreement the european union is crossing a new threshold on the scale of unreason. its record, both in terms of enlargement and association agreements, can be summed up in two points. firstly, the european union is becoming poorer. no country that has joined the union since 2004 had a gdp per capita higher than the average of the eu28 in 2014. the transition from eu 15 to eu 28 in 2007 represents a relative loss of 12 points of gdp per capita, which means that a citizen of the united states now has one and a half times more purchasing power than a citizen of the european union. it is therefore clear that your desire to associate with georgia, as with ukraine or moldova, will only make the european union poorer. secondly, it is your record of the deepening of the rift between the european union and russia. we live alongside russia, which has its own interests and sphere of influence. the strategic aggression against this neighbour, which is the continuing expansion of nato, is a mistake for which we are paying the price today. it is, of course, up to the ukrainians, the moldavians and the georgians to determine their own future, but you know that their country's strategic orientation towards nato or towards russia is a source of division that can lead to civil wars. therefore, in keeping with our constant line guided by the interests of france, but also by the concern for peace in europe, we will vote against this project. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i am particularly aware of the deindustrialization and losses of the french economy and of many more developed countries. it is clear that by integrating more poor countries, and by integrating countries whose upgrading is very expensive - as it was very expensive for germany to upgrade after its reunification - we are imposing a very heavy cost on the citizens of the wealthier europe. (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i believe that georgia's identity is european, and there is no doubt about that, but i think there were many relations before free trade. we are not obliged to sign association or free trade agreements designed to promote trade. i am simply saying that we, the countries of western and central europe which are member states, must protect our economy today. the monetary cost is of course also very high, but we have also fought it.
the question is "blue cardboard". dear sir, you must not misinform your colleagues. we have not received any money from moscow. we have taken out a loan from a private bank because we are perfectly free to do so. a loan, until proven otherwise, is not a gift. this is important. we have to pay this money back to a private bank. secondly, sir, when you defend an american strategic orientation, i am not accusing you of being an agent of washington. you're entitled to your opinion and i'm entitled to mine. we speak in the interests, from our point of view, of france and the european union.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mrs metsola, i would like to know if you are aware of the situation in the countries of the horn of africa, and if you know what role these countries play in human trafficking in this region of the world?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the khartoum process has no other objective than to normalise relations between the member states of the european union and the countries of the horn of africa. it's common, normal. we are in dialogue with dictatorships which blatantly violate human rights and whose citizens migrate to escape repression. the italian presidency wants, among other things, to promote the full integration of eritrea as a responsible actor and a full member of the international community. you, commissioner, want to lay the foundations for substantial political cooperation with these countries of origin, and the council has just said the same thing to us. you even told me in committee that if the problem was the name of the process, we could change it. it would just be a problem of countries of origin, countries of transit. it would be to stop migrants from fleeing their countries, allowing their governments to repress them with impunity. what dialogue can we have with these governments, who are just looking for international legitimacy - the legitimacy you are giving them - and who are involved - i say it again and again - in all the trafficking in the region? how can you tell us that human rights are at the heart of this process and that they remain a priority? how can you tell us that this will save human lives?
mr president, i think we really need to make progress on these issues in europe and we need a real common immigration policy, which is not the case today in europe, where immigration is a matter for national competence, with the deviations that we see. a real immigration policy cannot be done without a real partnership with africa. i do not deny at all - i hear what is being said on all these benches - the contacts that can be had with certain government officials and i think that in these cases it is better to have contacts with the opposition, ngos or civil society. in any case, a substantive partnership with africa is needed. the objectives are well known: to work, of course, for human rights - that has been said, i do not want to go back on this point, which is vital, fundamental, essential - and to work for economic development and to do so in a structured way. this means stopping the export of products subsidised by the european union, which compete with farmers, and working towards self-sufficiency for a number of countries. this is a matter of fundamental reforms. we must also be able to cooperate with africa in europe in the fight against all forms of human trafficking, and we must also reform and harmonize our right to asylum. it is not normal that a person who is under political pressure in his own country should be obliged to come to us to apply for political refugee status and may not be able to do so at an eu embassy in his own country. we must therefore reform and harmonise the right of asylum, open up a legal pathway to immigration, with quotas for each country, and finally better monitor and control our borders.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a comprehensive and coherent european policy on migration requires a constant dialogue with the countries of origin and transit of migrants. the khartoum process between the european union and the countries of the horn of africa contributes to this objective. the signatory states place the fight against irregular migration at the top of the initiative's priorities by tackling smuggling networks and targeting the causes of migration. but we must be careful not to use this ambition as an excuse to create new barriers to migration. everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to seek asylum or a better future. ensuring safe and legal pathways for migrants and asylum seekers to europe remains the most appropriate solution to end the tragedies in the mediterranean. the debate on legal migration, which is being presented as the next stage of the khartoum dialogue, cannot be left untouched. to add real value, this process cannot be limited to a declaration of intent without any effect. it will only make sense if it is accompanied by concrete measures, in full respect of the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers. however, projects resulting from the khartoum process will be implemented on a voluntary basis, without creating any obligations under international law. can we really expect tangible results and real added value from this? in view of this declaration, which has no normative value, how can we ensure that migrants are protected and their fundamental rights fully respected?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, what a curious country mauritania is! it is worth recalling that the current mauritanian president, mohamed ould abdel aziz, overthrew the first and only truly democratically elected president since independence in a military coup. it's a country that's being spared. while its president is credited with ridding the country of aqim, mauritania remains one of the hubs of trafficking in the region, which is one of the main sources of funding for armed gangs of all kinds. racism is rampant in that country, and it is primarily directed against black africans. this racism remains institutionalized through slavery, which persists despite its official abolition in 1981 and its criminalization in 2007. to date, only one court case against a slave owner has resulted in seven years, that is. since 2008, biram dah abeid, a descendant of haratine slaves and political opponent of the regime, has been fighting against these practices of another age, questioning, among other things, its religious justification. he could face the death penalty. we must therefore exert pressure by all means on that country to put an end to these practices and, despite its shortcomings, i shall therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
author. - mr president, i am one of those who denounced last night the khartoum process which legitimizes the dictators of the horn of africa. this is particularly true of sudan, where the disastrous el-bashir has been raging since 1989. yet, his days may be numbered. never before has the opposition gathered so widely, and this is precisely what explains the behaviour of the sudanese authorities: the announcement of elections, the failure of the addis ababa agreements, the resumption of bombing of the civilian population and increased repression in all directions, especially against amin mekki medani and farah ibrahim mohamed alagar, highly symbolic, since they are signatories of the appeal for sudan. the international community's failure to address this unprecedented situation, including the un security council, which is unable to condemn the abuses committed by unamid, is inexcusable. we must not only call for the release of all political prisoners, but also support the sudanese opposition in its call for the implementation of a process of dialogue which will finally allow the sudanese people, and not the dictators who oppress them, to live in peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 december last dr medani, a lawyer and human rights activist, was arrested by the sudanese security services. this case shows once again that sudan, in the throes of a bloody civil war, is suffering a crackdown on all forms of freedom, whether it be freedom of expression - in the case of dr medani - or religious freedom, since as you know, ladies and gentlemen, christians are widely persecuted in that country. we, on the other hand, remember the case of meriam, a christian woman who was sentenced to death for apostasy by a court in khartoum. the resolution before us is not acceptable as it stands. it is a model of total meddling and, i would even say, almost western arrogance. i repeat: while we condemn ill-treatment, we are not here to dictate to the people the nature of the political regimes they should have. consequently, we shall abstain, because to vote for this resolution would be to support the interference, while to vote against it would be to sit on the crime.
mr president, my motion for a resolution is based on rule 166 of the rules of procedure. we stand for freedom of speech, and that's very good. for having expressed my disagreement in the corridors of this parliament with a hideous painting which, at this christmas time, degrades the image of christ and his mother, i am being sued by the president of parliament, who is asking me for explanations as to the sanctions that my attitude would merit. since the majority group in parliament is calling for christian democracy, let it at least express its views on this degrading image.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, like my colleagues in the national front, i voted against this resolution, which does not tackle the fundamental problem of mass immigration which is affecting our countries in europe. is the european union capable of controlling the 48 000 km of coastline and 9 400 km of external land borders of its 28 member states, if it is competent to do so? the answer is obviously no. since the entry into force of the schengen agreements, the european union has failed in all its efforts to control the external borders. hordes of illegal immigrants are pouring into the southern states of the union before spreading to the other member states and, in particular, to france. every week, nearly a thousand illegal immigrants cross the french-italian border, near nice, where i was elected. it is time to draw the lessons of this failure and to suspend the schengen agreements immediately in order to give the states back control of their borders.
in writing. the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to object to the granting of gsp+ tariff preferences to the philippines. the union's generalised system of preferences (gsp) offers tariff reductions or duty-free access to the union market for exports from 178 developing countries and territories. for example, for competing imports of canned tuna, the granting of gsp+ tariff preferences to the philippines would reduce the customs duties to 0% from the current 24%. this will lead to increased unfair competition at the expense of european fishermen who are already hit hard by the commission's flimsy regulations, even though the country has not yet demonstrated that it complies with all the conventions required to benefit from gsp+. in addition, the philippines is under an investigative measure concerning illegal, unreported and unregistered (iuu) fishing. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to object to the granting of gsp+ tariff preferences to the philippines. the union's generalised system of preferences (gsp) allows tariff reductions or duty-free access to the community market for exports from 178 developing countries and territories. thus, for competing imports of canned tuna, the granting of gsp+ tariff preferences to the philippines would reduce the customs duties to 0% from the current 24%. such a measure could actually increase the unfair competition that european fishermen are already suffering from. european fishermen already subject to abusive and very restrictive regulations. in addition, the philippines has not yet provided guarantees regarding compliance with the conventions required to benefit from gsp+. finally, the country must respond to an investigative measure concerning illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing (iuu fishing). in view of these various factors, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. my colleague franck proust and i have brought to the attention of this house the problem of illegal fishing in the philippines through a resolution rejecting the country's access to the gsp+ system of generalized preferences. it is indeed inappropriate to grant a preferential tariff at zero duty in the philippines when it is impossible to trace the legal origin of certain products. i voted in favour of this resolution and i am sorry to see that it was not adopted by a qualified majority of the members of parliament. i will, however, continue to fight for the coherence of european policies. we cannot fight illegal fishing and at the same time offer privileges to a country which does not respect european standards in this field.
in writing. i voted against this commission delegated act because i do not think that we should accept the introduction of preferential tariffs for products that could be derived from unreported and unregulated fisheries. this would create unfair competition for european producers and send an incomprehensible message to the philippine authorities and to all developing countries.
in writing. i regret that parliament voted against the resolution tabled by the french delegation of the epp group denying the philippines access to the gsp+ system of generalised preferences. the european parliament has unfortunately chosen to allow philippine products to enter the european market at zero customs duty, even though it is impossible to trace the legal origin of some of these products. this goes against the search for a level playing field for our european fishermen.
in writing. regulation (eu) no 978/2012 on the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp+) empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts to establish or amend the list of gsp+ beneficiary countries. on 19 august 2014, the commission adopted a delegated regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences to the philippines, which consists of exempting certain imports from that country from customs duties. the philippines is a "non-cooperative" actor in the fight against illegal fishing. furthermore, the united nations report on human trafficking notes that "trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, for the purpose of exploitation as labour is proliferating in various sectors, including agriculture, construction, fishing, manufacturing and services". it would therefore be illogical to grant the philippines a scheme of generalised tariff preferences, as they do not meet the conditions for access to gsp+. i am voting for this resolution which is against the commission's delegated regulation.
in writing. the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to object to the granting of gsp+ tariff preferences to the philippines. the union's generalised system of preferences (gsp) allows tariff reductions or duty-free access to the union market for exports from 178 developing countries and territories. thus, for competing imports of canned tuna, the granting of gsp+ tariff preferences to the philippines would reduce the customs duties to 0% from the current 24%. such a measure could actually increase the unfair competition that european fishermen are already suffering from. european fishermen who are already subject to abusive and very restrictive regulations. in addition, the philippines has not yet provided guarantees regarding compliance with the conventions required to benefit from gsp+. finally, the country must respond to an investigative measure concerning illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing (iuu fishing). in view of these various factors, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the commission should wait for the illegal fishing situation and respect for fundamental rights to be properly dealt with by the government of the philippines and that in the meantime it is premature to grant them generalised tariff preferences.
in writing. i voted against this resolution granting gsp+ to the philippines. gsp+ status for the philippines is a huge opening for social and environmental dumping. the archipelago is a specialist in the canning of fish. the labelling should indicate only the place where the fish was canned, not where it was caught. it's a perfect way to launder illegally caught fish.
in writing. i have fought for months, first in my international trade committee and then in the plenary, to defend our fishermen and our fellow citizens by preventing illegal fishery products from the philippines from entering our territory. the resolution which i tabled with my colleague alain cadec, chairman of the committee on fisheries, received broad support, but not the qualified majority needed to pass it. in doing so, the european parliament has just authorized the philippines to export products from illegal fishing to the european market without customs duties, which is absurd! this is a provocation to our fishermen! they will have to face unfair competition from the philippines. and to our consumers, it's a mistake! the european commission is unable to guarantee the legality of the fishery products they will be consuming in the coming months. our trading partners must respect the rules to combat illegal fishing as do european fishermen, it is a matter of consistency. i will be vigilant with my colleagues in the french epp delegation.
in writing. i supported this resolution opposing the immediate access of the philippines to the eu's gsp+ system of generalised preferences. the philippines received a yellow card from the commission this summer regarding illegal fishing and is currently undergoing an investigation procedure; i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, the european parliament did not support this resolution which stressed the need for coherence in european policies and insisted that our trading partners should respect the rules to combat illegal fishing, as european fishermen do.
in writing. the srb (single resolution board) is the cornerstone of the single resolution mechanism (srm), which will soon be responsible for implementing the dismantling of 'banks in distress' through a series of instruments, including a single bank-supported resolution fund and an arsenal of rules on the hierarchy of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. the srm will apply to banks covered by the ssm, which makes the european central bank (ecb) the central supervisor of banking institutions in the euro area (approximately 6 000 banks). the mru will react in cases where a bank fails despite enhanced supervision. it will be based on a six-member board. conscious of the need to prevent bank failures, i remain, however, firmly committed to national sovereignty; that's why i voted against it.
in writing. under the single resolution mechanism, the national competent authorities are required to levy contributions to financial crisis resolution mechanisms. those contributions shall be adapted to the risk profile of institutions and undertakings in accordance with the criteria to be specified in a delegated act of the commission. however, in the delegated act adopted by the commission, the contributions do not adequately reflect the level of risk of the banks. the 'healthy' banks must therefore contribute as much as the most speculative financial institutions. i am voting against the recommendation approving this delegated act.
in writing. the srb (single resolution board) is the cornerstone of the single resolution mechanism (srm), which will soon be responsible for implementing the dismantling of 'banks in distress' through a series of instruments, including a single bank-supported resolution fund and an arsenal of rules on the hierarchy of creditors in the event of bankruptcy. the srm will apply to banks covered by the ssm, which makes the european central bank (ecb) the central supervisor of banking institutions in the euro area (approximately 6 000 banks). the mru will react in cases where a bank fails despite enhanced supervision. it will be based on a six-member board. i am aware of the need to prevent bank failures, but i remain firmly committed to national sovereignty; that's why i voted against it.
in writing. this proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, is intended to eventually allow georgia to accede to the european union. that's the hidden side of this agreement! on the principle of 'more funds, more reforms', the union intends on the one hand to squander european taxpayers' money in georgia when we are in great need of it and, on the other hand, to impose on georgia its ultra-liberal vision, which has still not been proven. this agreement is a new attack on russia, with which our relations are more than strained: demands for respect for georgia's territorial integrity, insistence that russia reverse its decision to recognise the secession of the georgian regions of abkhazia and tskhinvali in south ossetia, and for russia to end its occupation. for these reasons, among others, i voted against the conclusion of this association agreement.
in writing. the rapporteur 'commends georgia for having contained the pressure from other countries, notably russia'. is this really useful and timely given the geopolitical situation in the region and the current tensions between the european union and the russian federation? that is highly doubtful. as regards the economic consequences, lessons should be drawn from past experiences of the convergence of structurally very different economies. look at our german neighbors. the report promises georgia "a european perspective and [the possibility of] applying to become a member of the union". that's not reasonable. i therefore voted against this text, which, on the one hand, can have disastrous economic consequences for the member states and, on the other hand, is particularly delicate in the geopolitical context.
in writing. i voted against all the proposed amendments. the conclusion of the association agreement with georgia is just another maneuver by the european union to isolate russia. this association agreement is part of a very worrying leap forward by the european union, which has no major interests.
in writing. i voted against this eu-georgia association agreement which is nothing but a hasty attempt to encircle russia by vassalling its strategic partners. the european union is once again showing its willingness to trample on the sovereignty of nations, despite the accumulation of good intentions: the motion for a resolution thus calls for the compulsory 'conformity' of georgian legislation. what is worse, the european parliamentarians are advocating a 'consensual european choice', in other words, they are calling for a real negation of the democratic principle! this interference is all the more scandalous because it is also harmful to the citizens of the member states: it calls for intensive liberalization of both markets and visas. for example, according to a recent report in the economic journal, immigration has cost a country like the uk £150 billion in 17 years, despite being one of the countries that is best able to contain the effects of the economic crisis thanks to its monetary sovereignty. the eu-ukraine association agreement therefore shows once again that the decisions taken by the european institutions are dictated by ideology and not common sense.
in writing. the eu-georgia association agreement was committed during the eastern partnership summit in vilnius on 29 november 2013 and signed on 27 june 2014. the georgian parliament ratified it on 18 july, allowing the agreement to enter into force provisionally on 1 september 2014. the agreement aims to significantly deepen georgia's political association and gradual economic integration into the eu's internal market. the association agreement also provides for numerous opportunities for sectoral cooperation and focuses on support for key reforms, economic recovery and growth, governance and sectoral cooperation in 28 areas, including agriculture and rural development. given the current geopolitical context in eastern europe and the caucasus, this association agreement sets out a european path for georgia. that is why i am voting for the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. the union must develop stronger partnerships with its neighbours. the association agreement will strengthen political ties with tbilisi, while georgia has carried out a key reform of its judicial system to improve its governance. the agreement will enable europeans and georgians to continue cooperation and dialogue on the reforms still to be carried out to consolidate democracy and the rule of law. this enhanced cooperation in the political field will go hand in hand with the establishment of a free trade area between the union and georgia, which will promote trade links between the two groups. this agreement must eventually make it possible to modernize and stabilize the country so that it can freely chart its future. in this connection, it should be remembered that the agreement covers the entire territory of georgia and that in the future a lasting diplomatic solution will have to be found to the situations in abkhazia and south ossetia.
in writing. i welcome the conclusion of this association agreement, which is a significant step forward in relations between the european union and georgia. the agreement is supported by 69% of the georgian population, which shows the attachment of this people to cooperation with the european union. i also welcome the fact that the european parliament, through this resolution, reaffirms its support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia. it is also important to encourage the georgian authorities to continue their efforts in the area of democratic reforms, including the reform of the judiciary, and to work towards national reconciliation.
in writing. described as "one of the most ambitious free trade agreements the european union has ever negotiated with a third country", the agreement is also presented as a prelude to georgia's accession to the european union. i am opposed to any further enlargement under the present conditions, as i do not want to subject other peoples to the austerity of the peoples of europe. moreover, this is a new act of preparation for hostilities with russia, even though the report states that "the association process poses no danger to russia's political and economic interests". the fact that it is referred to is enough to illuminate the empty lens in reality. i hate that hypocrisy. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against all the proposed amendments. the conclusion of the association agreement with georgia is just another maneuver by the european union to isolate russia. after the promises of accession made to ukraine, will the union do the same with georgia?
in writing. i opposed this report, which plays the georgian provocation against the russian neighbour, a situation which is very similar to the proliferation of european association agreements with moldova or ukraine. in view of the geopolitical tensions in the caucasus region, i cannot endorse this report on the conclusion of the association agreement with georgia.
in writing. i vote in favour of such a resolution, as it commends georgia and encourages it to continue its efforts against corruption and poverty. this country has made great progress despite past military events. i also support this resolution because it recalls georgia's strategic interest in the european union and its ever closer and more fruitful cooperation with the west.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which supports the ratification of the eu-georgia association agreement, which includes a comprehensive and in-depth free trade agreement. this agreement was made possible by the political and economic reforms undertaken by georgia, but it is not an end in itself. the eu and georgia have a long-standing relationship, and the eu is committed to the development of relations with georgia.
in writing. i voted against this association agreement, which is above all a part of the strategy of encircling russia by enslaving its historical and strategic partners. i am shocked that the former georgian president was forced to be present at the voting: mr saakashvili, who led his people into open war with russia, is now living in exile in the united states, apparently to escape prosecution by the judicial authorities in his country.
in writing. the recommendation on the eu-georgia association agreement should allow for the creation of a large free trade area (another after those recently voted for with ukraine and moldova) to the benefit mainly of georgia, whose gdp growth, according to meps, is expected to be 4.3% as a result of the agreement. from a european perspective, there are no figures on the concrete contribution of this agreement to the european economy. moreover, it will only increase tensions between the union and russia, and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. the eu-georgia association agreement was committed during the eastern partnership summit in vilnius on 29 november 2013 and signed on 27 june 2014. the georgian parliament ratified it on 18 july, allowing the agreement to enter into force provisionally on 1 september 2014. the aim of this agreement is to significantly deepen the political association and gradual economic integration of georgia into the internal market of the union. the association agreement also provides for numerous opportunities for sectoral cooperation and focuses on support for key reforms, economic recovery and growth, governance and sectoral cooperation in 28 areas, including agriculture and rural development. given the current geopolitical context in eastern europe and the caucasus, this association agreement sets out a european path for georgia. that is why i am voting for this agreement.
in writing. with these association agreements, the european union is pursuing its diplomatic missions which, in the current context of geopolitical tensions, are more akin to alignment with us positions than to the search for prospects for peaceful international relations in the caucasus region. i reject the idea of france and the european union being used as a vehicle for us ambitions in georgia and i voted against this text.
in writing. i welcome the conclusion of this association agreement, which is a significant step forward in relations between the european union and georgia. the agreement is supported by 69% of the georgian population, which shows the attachment of this people to cooperation with the european union. i also welcome the fact that the european parliament, through this resolution, reaffirms its support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia. it is also important to encourage the georgian authorities to continue their efforts in the area of democratic reforms, including the reform of the judiciary, and to work towards national reconciliation.
in writing. this eastern partnership agreement is only aimed at weakening russia. for the last ten years, georgia has been the neoliberal laboratory of the united states and the soviet union on the borders of russia. the agreement aims to create a "deep and comprehensive free trade area" with the european union, which should bring happiness to the people. when one sees the results of the policies pursued in europe, one may wonder why the georgian authorities are so eager to see the same suffering inflicted on their own people. i am voting against it out of sympathy for the georgian people.
in writing. the european union is at a loss as to what to invent to try to isolate russia. the association agreement with georgia is part of the arsenal of anti-russian measures developed by the union. it should be noted that the european union has also already concluded free trade agreements, notably with moldova, and has indicated a future accession to ukraine. i voted against this association agreement with georgia.
in writing. i opposed this report, which plays the georgian provocation against the russian neighbour, a situation which is very similar to the proliferation of european association agreements with moldova or ukraine. in view of the geopolitical tensions in the caucasus region, i cannot endorse the union's association agreement with georgia.
in writing. strengthening relations with georgia is of great interest to both the european union and georgia. it is a strategic country, with 30% of its imports coming from europe. i therefore vote in favour of such a recommendation. closer relations should allow for increased trade and confidence in the union's eastern partners, along with the establishment of common commercial and democratic standards.
in writing. i supported this recommendation of the european parliament, which represents the ratification of the association agreement between the european union and georgia. following the signing of the association agreement between the european union and georgia on 27 june and the ratification of the agreement by the georgian parliament on 18 july, the european parliament was required to approve the agreement. i welcome that approval. the association agreement will strengthen economic and political relations between the european union and georgia and also contains a trade component which will provide free access to the markets of both parties in the long term. it will be important to remain vigilant and to ensure that the agreement is fully implemented and respected.
