on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this is the second time we have dealt with this legislation in a short period, and i understand the rapporteur’s argument that it would be inappropriate to place new requirements on the van-making industry so soon. i will therefore support the rapporteur’s proposals on this. however, i cannot pretend not to have a sense of disappointment about the lack of ambition. car technology has moved forward at a tremendous rate over the past few years. the car industry has done really well, and there has been huge overlap in the technology used in cars and in vans. the important thing to remember is that businesses across europe – vast numbers of businesses large and small – use vans, directly or indirectly. vans are a key part of their activities, so reducing the cost of van operation should not be seen as an environmental pleasantry: it should be seen as absolutely central to making european businesses more efficient and helping them reduce their costs. this is one of those occasions where we could have had a win-win solution, where we could have really raised our environmental ambitions, and that would have been good for business. it would have reduced business costs, and the technology was there to achieve those higher objectives. so we gave in, i think: the council gave in, and members here gave in at what is a difficult time for us economically across europe. we gave in to special pleading from the manufacturers. it would have been good to have heard business europe standing up for the users of vans and saying: ‘look, if you can reduce the costs, that it is good for us and we will stand up for it.’ but no, business europe is also the lobby of the big groups, the big manufacturers, and they came forward with no such proposals. so i see this as an opportunity missed, and i look forward to the commission coming back with revised proposals in the years to come: looking at the technology that is then available, raising our ambitions and helping us to achieve the genuine win-win solution that is good for the environment and good for business.
rapporteur. − madam president, our aim should be not only to reduce europe’s co2 emissions but also to do so at the least-possible cost. europe’s economy must be competitive. for this reason it would be wrong to commit ourselves to the development of particular technologies to the exclusion of others, and the commission would be right to propose a 2030 low-carbon technology without specifying how it should be reached, because the solution will vary from one country to another. sometimes renewable energy will play a large part. elsewhere there will be a role for carbon capture and storage. ccs technology can allow us to use fossil fuels to keep the lights on even when the wind is not blowing and the sun is not shining. just as we remove the sox and the nox from modern power stations, we should get used, just as automatically, to removing the co2. ccs is the only means of achieving large reductions in emissions from the steel, cement and other major industrial installations. ccs technology is proven, but it is capable of great improvements and cost reductions. we see this time and again as technologies are developed. if we think of the mobile telephone, twenty years ago it was like a brick and now it is the size of a matchbox or smaller. but, even given our present knowledge, the zero emissions platform and major engineering companies like alstom say that ccs will be cheaper per unit of low-carbon electricity than offshore wind, and in many cases much cheaper than solar. it is clear from the geologists that europe has an abundance of potentially safe co2 storage sites, although they are not always in the most convenient places. so it is a great disappointment that progress in europe has all but ground to a halt. in 2007 the council declared that it wanted up to 12 demonstration plants to be in operation by 2015. in fact we will be lucky if the construction of even one plant has been authorised by that date. governments have thrown money at renewable energy projects but relied entirely on the co2 price to promote business investment in ccs. the collapse in that price has taken away the financial justification, as well as slashing the value of the ner300 subsidies we could offer. renewable energy would have gone the same way were it not receiving specific governmental support. even in my own country, the uk, where there is cross-party support for ccs, we have yet to see construction cranes in action. europe’s priority should be to get a range of flagship projects up and running. we must learn by doing, and we need the commission to come forward with a new strategy. i hope the ideas in this report will contribute to that. the central feature must be a requirement that governments prepare long-term co2 reduction plans. ccs can only happen when governments support it, but some of them will only appreciate its value when they actually have to explain how they are going to achieve reductions of 80 % and more. although i endorse the idea of creating a new european innovation fund, i recognise that the majority of funding will have to come from member states. the commission must ensure that ccs is placed financially on a level playing field. let us keep in mind the big picture. across the world co2 emissions are rising fast. forty per cent of global electricity comes from coal, and coal is expected to be the single largest source of electricity generation across the world even in 30 years’ time. we have got to deal with the emissions from fossil fuels. it is not surprising that the international energy agency stresses the importance of developing ccs, and we should not lose sight of the fact that there are business opportunities here for european companies. there are jobs that can be created. europe has lost its leadership in the development of solar technology and, with so many ccs projects underway elsewhere in the world, it is at risk of losing out in the development of ccs technology. for the sake of our climate and our economy, let us embrace the full range of technologies that are available to help us reduce our co2 emissions and let us make ccs happen.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i hope nobody minds if a farmer gives a quick science lesson to you all. first, the title of this report by chris davies – which i hope will never become law – should be ‘carbon dioxide capture and storage’, not just the solid carbon. as a farmer, i of course like co2. it is absolutely essential. it grows my sugar beet, as this photosynthesises and takes it from the air; it grows my pasture for my sheep, and of course it grows the wheat to feed my chickens. so i like it. it is good for me, and it is good for all farmers. what is more, the more co2 there is in the atmosphere, the faster our crops will grow. if you do not believe me, try it in a greenhouse. suppose you were to succeed and actually remove huge quantities of co2 from the atmosphere: we could not grow our crops. you would have to learn to live on a diet of fungus and mushrooms. then there is the atmospheric greenhouse effect. as most people now know, co2 is also useful in keeping the planet warm by absorbing the sun’s rays and preventing the whole planet from icing up, just like north america at the moment with its polar vortex coming down from the arctic. of course, scientists tell us that co2 is only a very minor greenhouse gas and that water vapour in the atmosphere is responsible for over 80 per cent of the greenhouse gas effect on the earth. even the greens will not want to get rid of water vapour. so what is all this about carbon? what is the problem here? you want money, don’t you? the eu loves its fuel duty, its vat on gas and electricity and carbon allowances for big industry, taxing our jobs away to other countries, making our bills ever higher and blaming the power industry. of course, some scientists support carbon capture and storage – but then they get subsidies and grants from the eu, so they would, wouldn’t they? i am reminded of the anaerobic digester nonsense that is happening on farms at the moment, where we pour energy into growing maize with fertiliser and horsepower, saying how clever we are in reducing emissions, only to go and take this to a digester to burn it.
blue-card question. – so my good friend matthias groote says that we should not touch ccs with a bargepole. well, i have just been googling ccs, and i see that in germany over a period of two years, some eight new coal power stations have been opened or are being opened, and 27 gas power stations have come on line in the past year or so or are about to come on line. so what are you going to do with all the carbon dioxide?
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i thank all members for their contributions. i thank in particular the commissioner, whose remarks i thought were very positive. i look forward to seeing exactly what is in the climate strategy next week. i think people will be pleased to hear that the review of the storage legislation is likely to be more thorough than some of us had anticipated. a matter we did not touch upon is this: when will the directorate-general for energy come up with its plans? it had a consultation period last year, if you remember, but everything seems to have gone quiet since. thank you for your contribution nonetheless. i would like to use my time just to respond to the combination of the greens, gue and groote. i am delighted to hear from mathias that the german strategy will be to rely solely on wind, solar and biomass, and i am looking forward to sigmar gabriel coping with german industrialists with this strategy foremost in his mind. in fact, now i understand why the survey that came out just a week or two ago said that the uk’s economy was going to overtake the german economy in size by 2030. i did not believe it, but now i understand where germany is going, and it is not perhaps as progressive as it should be. now, as the commission has said, this is just one tool in the box – one we need to use. as far as i am concerned, it is very much a transitional tool. i cannot see any of us wanting to take co2 out and bury it as a long-term measure, but we just have to face the realities: coal alone accounts for 42 % of electricity across the globe. one new coal-powered station opens in china every week; one opens in india every month, and there are hundreds in the pipeline across the world. coal and gas are going to be with us for decades to come, and time is precious. the co2 they emit stays in the atmosphere for hundreds and hundreds of years. we need to try and prevent that co2 going up there as fast as we can. we need to develop every technological tool we can. ccs is a part – only a part – of the solution.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, firstly i would like to say, on behalf of my group, that i welcome this resolution. wildlife crime is of course an abhorrent activity and i, like many others, feel that we need to move this issue up our agenda. the illegal killing of totemic species such as elephants and rhinos makes ready headlines and citizens are outraged, but we must not forget the many other smaller species – many vital to regional biodiversity around the world – which are just as important. this is a complex and wide-ranging resolution covering all the areas of concern. i do not have time to address it all in detail here, but i would like to say that my group will be voting in favour of the resolution. having said that, i just want to mention one or two areas that are of concern to my group members. firstly, the call for a harmonisation of law in this area and the production of common sanctions. i think it would be wrong to place too much emphasis on this approach, because it will not be easy to achieve and it may result in all kinds of delays, meaning that some of the good things will not get done and will be delayed for this one reason. harmonised sanctions often result in minimum sanctions, and these are often not draconian enough to discourage such highly-organised crime syndicates. let us not get hung up on this, but rather let us concentrate on the detection process, particularly online. as was mentioned by mr poc, this is a growing area. this trade is expanding exponentially as the internet expands. it is in this area that the eu can concentrate its efforts and add value. the establishment of a specialised wildlife crime unit at europol is a good idea, but we must consider the risks of subsidiarity and the costs of this action. there is little point in effectively deterring the use of europe as a hub if the trade then moves elsewhere and does not diminish. this has to be a truly global effort working through the auspices of cites, and the eu is part of this.
mr president, i would first like to thank all those involved. this is certainly a very good idea which has come forward. during my time on the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, it became clear that wildlife crime and particularly wildlife trafficking have become another big business for organised crime groups. europol estimates that trafficking of endangered species generates around eur 18 to 26 billion per year. with the eu the foremost destination, wildlife crime at local, national and international level has become very attractive to criminals who operate in a vacuum of weak penalties and poor levels of law enforcement. in my own constituency in northern ireland, a partnership for action against wildlife crime has been established, consisting of the police service and the ulster society for the prevention of cruelty to animals. this partnership aims to raise awareness and establish a northern ireland network of contact points in order to prevent wildlife crime like the kite poisoning and the freshwater pearl mussel poaching which are some of the blights that happen in my constituency. i am pleased to say that there is evidence to suggest that initiatives like the one launched in cookstown last august to prevent deer poaching have had a real impact in preventing wildlife crime. wildlife crimes can be tackled if successes like this are built upon. we must ensure that appropriate funding is allocated to fight against wildlife crime. this is particularly relevant, as funds for the next period of rural development are currently being carved up by the member states. the rural development fund is of enormous importance, and it must be apportioned to the rural communities efficiently and effectively. this money must be spent in tackling the real social, economic and environmental challenges faced in these areas and should not become embroiled in a political pantomime. we do not need more legislation, but we do need to enforce the legislation that we have and to make it work.
mr president, i welcome this oral question, which is particularly relevant, given that wildlife crimes and rural crimes in general are increasing at an alarming rate both within the eu and worldwide. this type of crime is not just restricted to the developing world; we in europe also have a big problem. it can take many forms, from taking the eggs of rare birds or even the birds themselves through to issues like deer poaching. we do not even mention here associated rural crimes. last week thieves stole more than 100 sheep from a farmer in perton in staffordshire, my own county in england, and just a couple of years ago a lorry load of free-range pigs disappeared from a field near where i live. wildlife criminals often operate with impunity, and today wildlife crime is the fifth most profitable illicit trade in the world, estimated at up to gbp 6 billion annually – and it is not just the developing world which is responsible for this. although the ivory trade is probably the most prominent and most well-known, eu demand is a big issue here. we have to work with cites to try and squeeze out the demand. the uk has a national wildlife crime unit, which gathers intelligence and gives free assistance to police forces. what action has been taken by the european commission to ensure that all member states are combating wildlife crime and are working together to solve this issue? has the european commission been collecting data on the extent of wildlife crime in europe, and are these crimes part of broader trafficking activities? it would be interesting to know the answers to these questions.
mr president, i very much welcome the need to enhance wildlife law enforcement and to give serious organised wildlife crimes the same level of penalty as human trafficking, weapons trafficking or drug running. to do this, we must of course increase support for range states in order to help them fight organised poaching and trafficking, and in order actively to promote campaigns which aim to blacklist illegal products. however, i must stress that whilst the resolution has merit and mentions a great many important issues, i feel that, due to the clash with the christmas break, colleagues have been denied a proper debate on this subject. i understand that iucn has written to all the political groups asking for a delay in order for more time to be given to this important issue. however, this request was not accepted, resulting in an inaccurate and hurried resolution. i hope that, at this late stage, colleagues will call for the correction of some of the factual inaccuracies in the resolution, such as figures quoted for the global value of wildlife crime, and especially for the resolution to be broadened to consider issues related to the role of local communities and incentives for local people to value wildlife and support anti-wildlife crime efforts. the wording of this resolution gives the wrong impression that all wildlife trade is harmful to conservation, without recognising that much wildlife trade – which includes timber, fish and plants used in cosmetics and healthcare – forms a vital component of local livelihood strategies, particularly for poor rural people. much of this is also sustainable. the resolution ignores the role that well-managed sustainable use and trade can play in promoting effective wildlife conservation and species recovery.
mr president, europe has supported the irish peace process and, to advance it, first ministers peter robinson and martin mcguinness invited american diplomats richard haass and meghan o’sullivan to chair an all-party group to deal with flags, parades and the past. following six months of work involving political parties and civil society, they produced final proposals. sinn féin, despite some reservations, endorsed the recommendations as a compromise. however, unionism rejected them: ulster says ‘no’ again. irish republicans have stretched themselves, and we are up for the challenge that the haass proposals contain. unionist leaders are failing our people and ignoring a clear desire for a compromise agreement. the irish and british governments must now make clear statements in support of the haass-o’sullivan proposals and their implementation. they must dedicate financial resources to it and agree to information disclosure: both are necessary for successful implementation.
mr president, i rise to seek the support of the house for solidarity funding for those hit by dreadful flooding in my constituency. on the south-west peninsula of england, many homes and businesses have been under water and travel has been disrupted. thirty flood warnings are still in place. the uk is more susceptible to flooding with the onset of man-made climate change, but the response of successive governments has been inadequate, uncoordinated and costly. a government report six months ago recognised – far too late – that flooding and drought will become more frequent and more severe. little has yet been done to adapt to these dangers, and policies are still being pursued which will heighten them. while people struggle to cope with this emergency, the uk’s environment agency has been caught ganderflanking. i am working with my constituents to gain help from the solidarity fund for the cost of the clean-up, devolution of powers to local government to speed up response to emergencies, and urgent investment in water management schemes. i call on colleagues in the house to support me in these endeavours.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by hermann winkler, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on smart specialisation: networking excellence for a sound cohesion policy (2013/2094(ini)) (a7-0462/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 january 2014.
the next item is the report by pilar ayuso, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the ehealth action plan 2012-2020 – innovative healthcare for the 21st century (2013/2061(ini)) (a7-0443/2013).
mr president, firstly i want to put on record to this house that i believe that healthcare is primarily a matter for the member state, and that therefore there is an issue of subsidiarity which must be recognised by the house. however, i am very pleased to report to the house tonight the improvements in e-health and the innovations in my constituency in northern ireland. the innovations are such that we were delighted to welcome commissioner borg last year to look at the remote monitoring of patients and the new system of access to patient records. these are hugely important steps forward in healthcare provision within northern ireland. having better access to information, particularly patient information, enables improved speed of diagnosis and more efficient treatment. northern ireland is a rural community, and in that rural community many patients with long-term chronic illnesses are now being monitored remotely so that their health is better catered for, and patient times and doctors’ surgeries are less necessary.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 january 2014.
the next item is the report by esther de lange, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the food crisis, fraud in the food chain and the control thereof (2013/2091(ini)) (a7-0434/2013).
rapporteur. − mr president, employee financial participation in companies’ proceeds (efp) is a concrete way for companies to share success. it is a long-supported liberal vision, set out by joe grimmond in the 1960s and taken forward by many successful companies, such as john lewis in the united kingdom. it is a practical example of the inclusive growth referred to in the europe 2020 strategy, and it can empower citizens through employment by allowing them to play an integral role in the company for which they work. across the eu there are many different efp models, but the main ones are profit-sharing, individual employee share ownerships and employee stock ownership plans. the category or model chosen will often depend on the type and size of the company as well as the aims of starting such a scheme. the concept of employee financial participation offers many advantages. it can assist in the transfer of a company to employees when a single successor cannot be found: this is particularly useful in the case of smes and micro-enterprises. it promotes sustainability and long-termism in decision-making, which can benefit both employees and employers. for employees, it can enhance their commitment to the future success of the company and can give them an opportunity to participate in governance. for employers, it can encourage investment in training by increasing the company’s ability to retain skilled workers in the long term. there can also be improvements in employee job satisfaction and motivation, which can in turn boost productivity. despite these benefits, participation in efp schemes varies between different sectors, company sizes and member states and also according to employee demographics. europe lags behind other regions of the world, particularly the united states, in this field. in the report i have looked at the reasons for this and at the potential obstacles to efp take-up in the union. firstly, there is a lack of information about how efp schemes operate and can be implemented. answering these questions can be costly and burdensome for companies, in particular smes and micro-enterprises. secondly, there is a lack of national legislative incentive measures in some member states. thirdly, efp schemes are affected by national taxation regimes. the taxation elements of this report were, of course, supplied by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, not by the committee on employment and social affairs. lastly, companies which operate cross-border are faced with a multitude of efp schemes and national legislative provisions. the report makes a number of recommendations to overcome these obstacles and increase the number of efp schemes operated in the union. for example, best practices and examples of efp schemes and incentive measures should be shared among member states and interested bodies. this could lead to mutual recognition of the schemes, which could simplify the process for cross-border companies. the report makes reference to the current pilot project and to the benefits that a virtual efp centre and the tax-rate calculator could bring in terms of augmenting available information. these propositions would be of particular use to companies operating cross-border. we also call for the commission to carry out an impact assessment on a possible ‘29th regime’, alongside member states’ national regimes. this regime should operate outside the areas of national competence, such as taxation, should be voluntary and should be based on a set of best-practice examples for each type and size of company. in addition, we recommend that a set of basic guidelines for successful efp schemes be developed. firstly, the decision to implement a scheme should be taken at company level. participation should be in addition to remuneration and employment rights; it should be voluntary, and employees should be provided with all the relevant information in order to make an informed decision. lastly, if the model involves shares, collective ownership is a positive option. finally the report proposes the creation of a single information portal setting out the advantages, disadvantages, potential incentives and mechanisms of efp schemes. i hope these recommendations will be taken forward by the commission and interested organisations.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, one of the good news stories during the lithuanian presidency was the irish exit from the bailout. sinn féin has long advocated saying goodbye to the troika, and we would encourage all other member states who are suffering from the deep social and economic winds being inflicted by the troika to show it the door as well. the irish government has now adopted the mind-set of austerity, so there is no need for the troika to remain. in case the government should think of stepping outside that policy, the 26-county state will remain under supervision by the eu for several decades to come. exiting the bailout will change little for middle- and low-income families, for the unemployed or for those who have been forced to emigrate. it will do nothing to stop the dissipation of public services and the deterioration of living standards for the vast majority of irish people. one truly good news story to come out of this presidency was the agreement reached on the tobacco products directive. as a shadow for this file, i was able to witness the resolve and the hard work put in by the lithuanian presidency to agree on legislation which will have tangible effects for the health of future generations. i want to congratulate the lithuanian presidency for this.
mr president, the lithuanian presidency claims credit for progress on the banking union and enhanced eu control over the economies of member states, especially those in the eurozone, as though these were simply means of achieving economic well-being. however, these are not a means to an end, but rather an end in itself: centralised control of member states. the presidency has boasted of its achievements on hate crime, which properly refers to criminal acts, violence, abuse and property damage motivated by hatred of a particular category of people, and should always be deplored. hatred is always destructive of the hater as well as the hated. however, assaults and extreme violence and damage motivated by hatred and contempt are not perpetrated only – or even mainly – by the indigenous populations of europe against ethnic minorities, as we know from the cases of lee rigby in london, those of kriss donald and richard everitt, the london riots in 2011 and the countless victims of asian grooming. lithuania boasts of hosting a conference in november of the fundamental rights agency (fra), which believes in the criminalisation of disapproved expressions of opinion on ethnicity, including racism – a word undefined but coined by trotsky – and xenophobia, which can only be described as an orwellian thought crime. ironically, the application of these words to political opponents – a favourite activity of the fra and eurocrats – is a subliminal message of hatred: stop reading, stop listening, stop judging for yourself; hate the speaker, hate the writer.
mr president, the first former soviet republic to preside over our union has done so well. congratulations are due on a landmark agreement on the eu budget and on agreements with georgia and moldova at the eastern neighbourhood summit. the absence of ukraine can hardly be blamed on lithuania. among the lesser achievements, the progress on the status of european political parties is especially welcome to me and to other members of this house. yet there remains one area of deep concern. during our debate at the start of the presidency, i questioned official attitudes in lithuania to ethnic russians. i cited the case of viktor uspaskich, an ethnic russian who is persecuted for the success of a party he founded and the threat it poses to longer-established parties. we hoped that lithuania would satisfy us that due process in this case is paramount and that lithuania has not only a free economy but also a just society, in which the separation of powers is respected – that lithuania has become, as president grybauskaitė said of the european union, ‘a lighthouse of hope for freedom, democracy and human rights’. we have been disappointed. the irregularities in the judicial process against mr uspaskich are striking. evidence of meddling in the judicial and political processes by the state security department and the office of the president are worrying. here, as in the case of malik gatayev, we need assurance that justice and the rule of law prevail in lithuania.
mr president, as rapporteur on the tobacco products directive i would like to address the president-in-office to put on records my thanks to her presidency for the commitment it showed to reaching agreement on the directive. in particular i would like to thank minister vytenis andriukaitis for his determination to reach agreement; ambassador vinciunas, who i can see is here this morning; and the chair of the working group, martynas pukas, who did a tremendous job to make sure that we were able to reach agreement between parliament and council on 16 december 2013, almost one year to the day since the commission presented the tobacco products directive to the outside world. we know that the tobacco products directive had a very difficult birth. we know all about the intense lobbying and people trying to delay it, trying to push it into the long grass and to undermine it. i hope that all the institutions will learn lessons about what happened and that we will all look at the framework convention on tobacco control and implement in full its recommendations on transparency and lobbying. i think the agreement that we have reached is a good one. i said at the beginning that the eu has to play catch-up with many other countries in the world on tobacco control. we know that australia, the us and canada are ahead of us, but so too is brazil, where tough tobacco control measures have seen the proportion of smokers drop from 37 % to 15 %. we are, of course, going to have a vote in this house, hopefully in late february. i hope that we will reach agreement and that this will indeed be a testimony to the work of the lithuanian presidency, which will be a real legacy.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as chairman of the committee and also the shadow rapporteur for my group, i warmly welcome our agreements on this proposal, and i know the house is going to give it very substantial support today. i particularly want to thank all colleagues who have worked on it under the inspired leadership of robert rochefort – who i see is not paying attention to me because he is talking to ms wikström – but i want to say to him that his expertise in this has been very well deployed in many of the detailed proposals. this is of real importance to us as a committee because, as we have heard from a number of speakers already, we have driven through some really important advances for consumers. i particularly want to highlight the issue about dispute resolution, or rather alternative and on-line dispute resolution, because there are a lot of really important resources to help get that operating. i think the broader picture – and ms irigoyen pérez put her finger on this – is that in many cases we have seen the opportunity to strengthen the rights of consumers, to give them better information and ensure better and safer products, but we are not seeing those rights delivered consistently in every country. this resource is all about doing that. i want to say in conclusion to the commissioner – whom i warmly welcome here, as i think this is the first major proposal we have worked on together – please help us to resolve the impasse in the council at the moment on the regulation on consumer product safety. we really want to get that through in this parliament, commissioner, and unless we move forward on this, a lot of the work we have done is simply going to be sitting here for the next six months, whereas we could be enhancing consumers’ access to better and safer products if we unblock that log jam in the council at the moment. i should add, mr president, that i am disappointed to see that there is no one here from the council presidency to listen to this debate.
mr president, given that national legislation is insufficient, this proposal is ostensibly to protect consumers. yet the more you read, the more you realise that consumer protection is not wanted primarily for its own sake but because it will facilitate free trade. it seems that cutting the budget would not be acceptable. no surprise there! in the context of product safety, the report does contain some interesting revelations. in 2010, 58 % of notifications were in respect of goods from china, and in 16 % of cases it was not possible to identify the country of the manufacturer. alarmingly, 25 % of notifications concerned toys. the drive to extend free trade worldwide without regard for the job security of europeans is well documented. however, it seems that consumer safety has also been a victim of international free trade. the countries of europe, individually or collectively, cannot deal with countries that habitually sell us unsafe or substandard goods.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes.)
i am sure the house notes your comments with concern and that you will hear from the relevant authorities.
that concludes the vote.
mr president, i very much welcome the committee’s focus on smart specialisation as a means of promoting effective investment in research and innovation. in tough economic times we must ensure that funding in research and innovation is not spread too widely or haphazardly. instead, investment should surround a limited a number of priorities and be targeted where there is the greatest economic potential. i am pleased that the report recognises this need. as the report highlights, establishing regional innovation incubators is vital. in my own constituency of northern ireland, i was delighted to visit the innovation growth centre in omagh, which opened last may. it received gbp 2.3 million in funding from the interreg iv programme and is part of an extension of cross-border links with leitrim in the republic of ireland. furthermore, it is good to see the potential behind the ‘smart region’ concept, which is being worked on by omagh and fermanagh councils. the project will be enhanced by combining the two councils in the coming years.
mr president, cohesion is one of those wonderful words, like solidarity, where the practice has become almost completely divorced from the literal etymological meaning of the word. we have had two decades and a little bit more of cohesion payments. they were introduced as part of the maastricht treaty, when it was all about bringing the worse-off regions of europe up to the standard. we are now in a position to see how that has worked. which country has been the biggest net recipient of cohesion payments under the european treaties in per capita terms? greece. well, how is that working out in terms of improving the greek economy? there is a reason why there is this link. it is that if you have more money available and being paid out by bureaucracies than you can get in the private sector then, in every cohort of greek schools, the best and brightest kids will make the rational decision to work for brussels or in some government agency, rather than making something or selling something. so the european union becomes a gigantic mechanism for the redistribution of taxpayers’ funds – and we wonder why we are falling further and further behind economically.
in writing. − the west wales and valleys region has been in receipt of the highest amount of regional funding for many years. we must ensure that we spend this money in the most efficient and sustainable way possible in order to aid the development of the region. plaid cymru has always supported eu cohesion policy and its focus on the poorest regions. i voted for this report because i support the involvement of regional stakeholders at all stages and the concept of offering them training so they can carry out their roles effectively.
in writing. − this report is not without merit, and demonstrates how the european structural and investment funds can be leveraged to support and develop effective synergies between universities, higher education institutes, entrepreneurs and businesses. as conservatives, we want local enterprise partnerships in the uk to make research and innovation a key priority in their development strategies, and to take maximum advantage of the next 7-year eu funding period. this report deals with an area of real added eu value, and the uk has long been a leader in europe is this particular area. we acknowledge the utmost importance of horizon 2020 to our top research institutions, universities and entrepreneurs, and welcome that this report highlights how the eu’s cohesion policy is slowly moving away from a top-down grants-based system. nonetheless, we cannot accept the emphasis that this report places on regional strategies for research and innovation. conservatives in government have been at the fore of establishing local enterprise partnerships, inspired by bottom-up collaboration between local economic actors. having abolished labour’s failed and bureaucratic regional development agencies, we see the report’s regional stress as harking back to the same top-down rigid structures for regional development policy which we abolished in government. for these reasons, despite the fact we welcome the main thrust of the rapporteur’s suggestions, conservatives abstained on this report.
in writing. − i welcome the opportunity that this report provides to highlight the virtues of smart specialisation strategies. by prioritising research and innovation in the light of their strengths and comparative advantages, regions will be able to use their structural funding more efficiently. targeted investments, greater efficiency and a clearer focus on research and innovation are all approaches that i can support in the deployment of structural funding for the 2014-2020 period, and i hope they will be adopted in wales. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − with economies in many member states struggling to grow, cohesion policy investment in research, development and innovation can provide a vital stimulus to increasing the capacity to innovate and developing a competitive economy. i supported this report, which outlines smart specialisation, which in turn gives regions control over establishing their own research, development and innovation priorities. this would enable funding to be directed towards a region’s strengths, so that the money has the most impact. i also support the report’s focus on the link between research and higher education, businesses and local and regional administrations, which should be strengthened to ensure that spending is focused on projects that will bring the most benefit to a region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as clarity and transparency are key to making the european union work for wales. the new procedure is clearer and stricter than before, but parliament will still be able to voice its concerns when this legislative procedure is used.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that the parliament’s rules of procedure are as clear as possible. parliament now plays an important role in the consent procedure and it is right and proper that procedure reflects parliament’s wishes accurately.
in writing. − it is important that the rules on parliamentary procedures, such as the consent procedure, are clear. i am satisfied that this report goes some way towards clarifying the situation across parliament as to how the consent procedure should operate, and therefore i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i voted against this report. i believe that the review could have been used to improve the targets and provide a policy driver for improving fuel efficiency. such an approach would benefit small entrepreneurs as well as the climate. the legislation could have provided a clear path towards a 2025 target to combat climate change effectively. it was a missed opportunity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it will be good for the environment and save van users money. it is mostly small businesses that use these vehicles and it is important in the current financial crisis that they are shielded from price increases, where appropriate.
in writing. − i support this revision because it confirms a fuel efficiency target for vans for 2020. there is also a commitment to move to an improved testing system which will mean fuel efficiency tests better reflect real-world conditions.
in writing. − i am pleased to see this agreement approved here today. i believe it is a sensible and balanced one, which rightly maintains the long-term co2 emissions reduction target of 147g/km by 2020, which was agreed by this house only two years ago.
mr president, in adam smith’s view, prosperity rested on just three elements: peace, easy taxes and the tolerable administration of justice. the european single market really should rest on just two: mutual product recognition built upon enforceable contracts. that is all you need; we do not need hundreds of commissioners and thousands of officials and meps building a higher and higher edifice of regulation. what has happened as we have gone down this road of introducing environmental, social and other standards is that, in practice, we erect barriers to entry. we allow – and i think all of us know this privately – the eu institutions to become a honeypot for lobbyists and corporate interests of all kinds wanting to extend costs that they happen to meet already to all of their prospective competitors. thus we have the opposite of a single market. instead of extending consumer choice, we end up reducing it in the interests of a handful of big corporate producers, and then we wonder why we are getting poorer.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the 2014-2020 consumer programme. wales benefits from the free movement of goods within the european union. we have to be sure that those goods are safe and that consumers’ rights are protected. this regulation allows consumer organisations to play an active role, and this is to be welcomed.
in writing. − i am in favour of this new consumer programme as it is intended to support and empower consumers and ensure the protection of vulnerable consumers. the programme and the funding will put consumers at the heart of the single market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement on the consumer programme for 2014-2020, which deals with a number of important issues. i was particularly pleased to see calls for the programme to strengthen the advice and information provided to consumers. i am often contacted by constituents who are encountering difficulty as consumers and do not know who to turn to for information about their rights. i hope that the consumer programme will help to strengthen the resources available to those consumers in need of information or advice.
in writing. − i welcome today’s report which gives the go-ahead for the new consumer programme (2014-2020). around eur 169 million has been allocated to this programme which aims to address safety issues, making sure that unsafe products are not allowed on the market. the proposal also aims to improve cross-border consumer rights and redress, and to improve the existing network of national enforcement authorities and european consumer centres. i am pleased that the report also takes into account both the threats and opportunities presented to the consumer through digitalisation, and furthermore i welcome moves to fully protect vulnerable consumers.
in writing. − i supported this report, which aims to establish a consumer programme for 2014-2020 that will put the consumer at the heart of the single market. the main areas that the proposals identify for improvement are product safety; information and education to ensure that consumers know what their rights are and how to seek redress, especially in cross-border cases; and the enforcement of consumer rights. the proposed regulation should ensure both greater rights for consumers and their empowerment to demand redress when those rights are not upheld.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it will allow the commission to implement the most appropriate trade tariffs for the products listed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which puts forward a technical adjustment to facilitate the aligning of council regulation (ec) no 774/94 with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because, while i encourage people to buy welsh produce, we need effective rules governing those goods we import.
in writing. − i support the revision of the regulation as it brings the rules in line with new delegated and implementing acts under the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which will align three council regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the relevant provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. − i support this report as it aligns the provisions on the geographical indications with the international trips agreement and with certain provisions of the regulation on food information to consumers. it is vital that legislation is up-to-date, especially when it concerns information to consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which takes steps to enhance the applicability and clarity of the eu legislation on aromatised wine products and to improve the policy in place for such products so as to ensure that consumers are better informed.
mr president, i support the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs). indeed, unless we have ccs and include it in our long-term energy plans, it will not be possible to reduce emissions without also switching off the lights. they have had ccs projects for 15 years in norway, and these are being developed in the united states, canada and even china. this report calls for development of demonstration projects to help fund research and build clusters in order to best leverage infrastructure spending. however, two issues in europe are holding back ccs. the first is the binding renewables target, which is driving investments towards renewables at the expense of both ccs and nuclear. we must have a technology-neutral approach. the second is the planning deadline set by the commission. fundamentally, it is more complicated to build a storage facility for carbon dioxide storage than to put up a wind turbine. we must take account of that in our deadlines.
mr president, throughout our life in politics, people were complaining in britain about the mining of fossil fuels. when margaret thatcher died and her funeral was an opportunity for retrospective comment, we heard again and again a number of politicians and commentators saying that the most evil and disagreeable thing she had done was to close down the mining sector and prevent this extraction of fossil fuels. yet exactly the same people – not the same kinds of people but precisely the same individuals, politicians and newspapers – are now complaining about the extraction of fossil fuel in the form of shale oil and gas. there are times when i really struggle to enter into the mentality of my fellow citizens. we are told on the one hand that mining coal is a good thing, but then that burning it is a bad thing. how are we supposed to make sense of that?
mr president, the davies report gives important impetus to carbon capture and storage (ccs). it is five years since parliament created a mechanism to fund ccs projects through the new entrant reserve (ner) mechanism, and we have still not got a single project up and running across europe. as you know, mr president, we have in our region one of the most advanced schemes on the cards – the white rose project – and now potential government investment in drax power station to get ccs up and running. today’s report will give a major boost to that. what we now need to see is funding from the ner mechanism released to match that project, and we need a very clear commitment from the government to go ahead, because we have been dilly-dallying and dithering back home for several years now. we have still not got a commitment to go beyond an investigation and a research phase, when ccs is important for the future of tackling climate change in our own country and right across the planet.
in writing. − i voted against this report. while carbon capture and storage (ccs) could have a role to play in future in reducing the carbon footprint of industrial sectors such as steel or cement, it should not be used as a cover for ‘business as usual’ for the fossil fuel industry. our focus should be on cutting carbon emissions and improving energy efficiency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it portrays the current failings of the ccs projects across the eu and how policy on them can best be improved at the european level. this area has the potential to be an important technology in the fight against climate change and it is important that the most effective european policy is implemented.
in writing. − i support this report because i think it is important to address the failings of the ccs so far and that there is an urgent need to include goals in the 2030 climate and energy framework.
in writing. − i can support much of the content of this report. whilst i believe there are some key factors which have held back carbon capture and storage and which the report does not address, i voted in favour of the report because i feel that carbon capture and storage should form an important part of our long-term industrial and energy strategy.
in writing. − today i voted for the implementation report on developing and applying carbon capture and storage (ccs) technology in europe. i believe that carbon capture and storage – a technique which traps carbon dioxide (co2) as it is emitted from large point sources, compresses it and transports it to a suitable storage site, where it is injected into the ground – has significant potential as a mitigation technique for climate change in europe. i support the belief that large industrial installations should be ccs-ready. this could be of particular importance to wales, which still has coal resources.
mr president, as a shadow i was pleased to see my amendments incorporated into this report on e-health, and i voted in favour. e-health has significant potential to improve healthcare for both patients and health professionals alike. of course, e-health should never be seen as a replacement for face-to-face care, especially for the elderly, and it is of the utmost importance that data protection issues are clarified and dealt with, given the highly sensitive nature of patients’ healthcare. nevertheless, a patient-centred e-health approach can be an excellent tool for improving access to healthcare services, especially for those who live in remote regions – as in ireland, where much of the population is in rural areas. i supported the development of the north-west health innovation corridor in ireland, and i believe that a well-developed e-health action plan will help such a corridor to deliver for people in its network and beyond.
in writing. − i worked on this report for my group and i welcomed the final outcome. e-health is an exciting development and excellent work on it is being done in welsh universities. there is a long way to go to develop the technology and ensure patient safety and confidence, as well as protecting vulnerable groups, but the commission strategy points the way forward. i hope the welsh government will now adopt a national strategy. i voted for the report.
in writing. − the severity of the economic crisis continues to be felt across the board, with no sector immune from budgetary constraints. one of the most dramatic impacts of a tumultuous financial climate has been the impact on the health sector. it is therefore vital that the eu and member states capitalise on the enormous market potential of ehealth. the new ehealth action plan, in line with the europe 2020 strategy and the digital agenda for europe, will hopefully ameliorate some of the existing difficulties of establishing a fully operable system to contend with the pan-european challenges of ageing populations and the increasing incidence of chronic diseases. in my own constituency of northern ireland, we have seen the difficulties of meeting these challenges particularly with certain services either unavailable, inefficient or both. i believe the new ehealth action plan can build upon local and regional success stories in member states, disseminating models of best practice elsewhere. for instance, the impressive development of the connected health initiative has placed northern ireland at the forefront of europe in developing ehealth technologies. i support the report’s recommendations for the ehealth action plan 2012-2020, and hope this serves as a basis to tackle modern health challenges.
in writing. − i welcome the opportunity that this report provides to assess the progress made on e-health in the eu. the application of information and communication technology to our healthcare systems can increase their efficiency and also improve patient services and care. i believe that e-health could be utilised to address some of the key challenges facing our healthcare systems, and i therefore voted in favour of the report today.
in writing. − i supported today’s own-initiative report, which is in response to the commission’s e-health programme 2012-2020. i support the rapporteur’s calls to increase training for healthcare professionals to be able to use new e-health technologies including electronic health records, telemedicine and health-related phone apps. it’s important for research and innovation to develop e-health technologies and user-friendly tools and i believe a sufficient amount of eu funding should be used for this purpose. finally, i agree with remarks made in the report to make sure e-health is available to all parts of society, particularly elderly people, in order to avoid inequalities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as we need to improve the management of chronic diseases and strengthen effective prevention and health promotion practices. we need to increase the sustainability and efficiency of health systems by empowering citizens, unlocking innovation and enhancing patient/citizen-centred care, while also sharing best practice among member states, with a view to supporting cross-border healthcare and health security. i particularly welcome aspects of this report that reflect respect for member state competence, and the subsidiarity principle, in this important field, and i also welcome the principle that local and regional authorities should make better use of existing eu funds, as opposed to new allocations for the financing of e-health.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the issue of food fraud. after the shocking case of the horsemeat scandal, it became clear that, with rising food prices and the lack of resources for food safety inspectors, it has become all too temptingly profitable for fraudsters to engage in exploitation. action needs to be taken so that this criminal minority do not tarnish the excellent reputation of the majority of food producers. traceability is key. supermarkets should be able to stand by the source and quality of their food instead of focusing on downward pressure on prices. consumers should be able to trust labels. furthermore, in line with the good friday agreement, producers in the north of ireland should be allowed to continue to label their produce as irish if they so wish.
mr president, i am delighted to report to this house that northern ireland is a part of the united kingdom renowned for good-quality, highly traceable food. in order to copper-fasten that reputation, i welcome this report. i share the report’s concerns about the need to strengthen the supply chain in order to win back confidence lost as a result of unscrupulous actions by those seeking to make additional profit at any cost. there should be a focus on enforcement of the current rules across all member states. all the actors in the supply chain, including retailers, have a responsibility to ensure that the end product is what it says it is, and to take a realistic approach to the cost of food production. making supply chains shorter and promoting the purchase of local produce are extremely welcome but should not be used as means of restricting choice or discriminating against products from other member states. in northern ireland we have witnessed the impact of the campaign run by the national dairy council in the republic of ireland, which has effectively been trying to exclude milk from northern ireland from being sold in shops there. this type of action is completely unacceptable.
mr president, last year, of course, we had the horsemeat scandal, but seven years ago in my region we had a bird flu epidemic when dead turkeys imported from hungary were being processed in the uk and then being labelled as british meat. i have called for better traceability ever since then. those with longer memories will remember that 13 years ago, 10 million sheep and cows were put down in the uk during the foot-and-mouth epidemic. traceability is not just about stopping fraud, it is also about reducing health risks. our single market is meant to allow for free trade with reduced bureaucracy across borders, but it is not an excuse for fraud or the lack of proper protection. fundamentally, if you cannot tell which country the meat comes from, how can you trace it back to the farm? and if you cannot trace it back to the farm, how can you reduce the risk of diseases?
in writing. − i welcome this report and the need for a strengthening of the supply chain in order to win back confidence lost as a result of unscrupulous actions taken by those wanting to make additional profit at any cost. there should, however, also be a focus on enforcement of the current rules across all member states. there is a responsibility incumbent on all the actors within the supply chain, including retailers, to ensure that the end product is what it says it is. it is also important to have a realistic approach to the cost of food production. making supply chains shorter and promoting buying local produce is extremely welcome but should not be used as a tool to restrict choice or discriminate against products from other member states. in northern ireland we have seen the impact of the national dairy council, which has effectively excluded milk from northern ireland being sold in the republic of ireland. this is unacceptable.
in writing. − this report was drafted as a reaction to the horsemeat scandal, which affected wales directly. i received a lot of correspondence from my constituents in the wake of that scandal and this report addresses many important issues which will help prevent future food fraud. the successful and growing welsh food industry demands the highest standards, and it is in all our interests to work together across the eu to prevent criminal activity which undermines consumer confidence. trust is essential. i voted for the report.
in writing. − today the british conservatives voted in favour of the de lange report on the food crisis and fraud in the food chain, written in light of last year’s horsemeat scandal. this report focused on the criminal activity which took place last year, the official controls, member state cooperation and how to ameliorate this situation and prevent a recurrence. however some members used this text as a vehicle to express their continued dissatisfaction with the compromise on country of origin labelling (cool) for processed meats which was struck during the food information for consumers negotiations, despite the fact that the commission was due to come forward with a report on its feasibility imminently. this report was published this december following the vote in envi, but ahead of this plenary vote. it is for this reason that we abstained on paragraph 41, as the objective of this paragraph has now been achieved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, as the horsemeat scandal showed last year, there is a dire need to tighten legislation on food supply networks across the eu. i support the report and improvements in this field because it will improve quality for consumers and also improve animal welfare standards.
in writing. − agriculture, perhaps more than other sector, is heavily reliant on consumer trust to be successful. it is unfortunate that it took the hugely damaging horsemeat scandal to try and get to grips with fraud in the food chain. to this end, the report makes several useful recommendations, including: extending the food and veterinary office’s role in auditing the food chain to cover fraud, and improved self-regulation by the industry. moreover the report states that inspections should remain in the preserve of local public authorities rather than economic operators, as this approach enhances communications and compliance with controls. i am however concerned to avoid establishing additional bureaucratic and costly bodies that will have little impact on consumer confidence. instead we ought to strengthen existing bodies, ensuring there are greater deterrents for food fraud. for instance, one year on from when the horsemeat scandal broke in northern ireland, there have still been no prosecutions – a totally unacceptable situation given the damage done to the local agricultural sector. only when people are 100% confident that ‘what is on the can is in the can,’ will we be able to say that consumer trust in the food chain has been restored.
in writing. − i support this because food fraud cases are becoming a common occurrence and must be tackled at a european level. country of origin labelling will give consumers the power to make informed choices and would force food manufacturers to get a grip on their supply chain.
in writing. − given the negative impact that recent cases of food fraud have had on consumer confidence in the food chain, it is right that parliament has compiled this report which looks into the issue of food fraud, its definition and scope, the factors contributing to its occurrence, and possible solutions. i welcome the general thrust of the report and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. − after the horsemeat scandal in the uk, i believe it is our duty to ensure high standards of quality and transparency in the british food industry. cases of food fraud are becoming increasingly common and they need to be tackled at a european level in order to combat the problems at the points of manufacture, distribution and consumption. for this reason, i voted in support of the own-initiative report on fraud in the food chain. i welcome the harmonisation of the definition of food fraud, as well as the enhancement of the role of, and the resources available to, the food and veterinary office. i believe that sanctions equivalent to twice the profit made by fraudulent means will deter repeat offenders or, in extreme cases of malpractice, close them down. i hope that this report represents a step towards consumers being able to make informed choices and manufacturers having control over their supply chains.
in writing. − food fraud concerns a range of products including meat, fish, organic produce, olive oil, milk and grains. cases of food fraud are becoming increasingly common, as was highlighted by the horsemeat scandal last year. with food production spanning national borders, it is essential that food fraud should be tackled more vigorously at eu level. i therefore supported this report, which calls for measures such as the introduction of better and more frequent inspections and an enhanced role for the food and veterinary office in combating food fraud. as a deterrent to non-compliance, it also calls for tough sanctions for those who break the rules, including large fines and the possibility of closing down food-business operators. i tabled amendments to the report calling for mandatory country-of-origin labelling for all meat, including in processed foods, which would force manufacturers to get a grip on their supply chains, while also giving consumers more power to make informed choices; i am pleased that these amendments were supported in today’s vote.
in writing. − it has become clear that more must be done to combat fraud in the food chain and enable better control of our food chain. member states had to contend with the horsemeat scandal in early 2013 and the issue highlighted just how ineffective current food control is. we need to work to define clearly what fraud in the food chain is and what we can do to reduce it. we need consistent enforcement measures across the eu and the establishment of national laboratories so that tests can be carried out efficiently and effectively on items in the food chain. this does not mean creating another european agency or increasing the level of bureaucracy. member states’ cooperation can improve the situation: there is no need to increase expenditure through a supranational body. we must also ensure that our response to fraud is measured. excessive spot checks and regulations could have adverse effects on the industry. new pressures could increase fraud rather than reduce it, as the industry struggles to survive under a new set of requirements. this issue can only be resolved through the efforts of each member state. no eu body can ensure long-term stability, quality and control in the food chain.
mr president, it is, of course, important to ensure that companies are working within the law and that employees are not being unfairly – or unknowingly – exploited by their bosses. this requires effective inspection and policing. i am therefore pleased that the steinruck report has emphasised the need to introduce new measures which challenge poor labour conditions. i should note, as does the report, that there are certain groups of people who are most vulnerable. in my london constituency some of the migrant communities, in particular, have certainly been exploited by unscrupulous employers. however, despite its good intentions, there are aspects of the report which seek to undermine the competencies that individual member states already enjoy in the area of labour inspections, aspects which forced me and many of my conservative colleagues to vote against the report. as an example, i would point to the proposed establishment, within the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound), of a european platform for labour inspections on undeclared work, which really offers minimal improvement. these are matters which should be left to the member states to police.
in writing. − plaid cymru has long supported stronger laws on workers’ rights as a means of securing good quality jobs in wales, so i voted in favour of this report. its main aim is to tackle the lack of enforcement of labour legislation. it is essential that the laws enacted to protect workers should be as effective as possible.
in writing. − whilst i support measures which challenge undeclared work and other abuses or forms of non-compliance with legal obligations, i am concerned by aspects of this report which seek to encroach on the competence of the member states. therefore, i could not support the report.
in writing. − to keep europe competitive we need to ensure that our workforce is well protected. for this reason, i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on ‘effective labour inspections as a strategy to improve working conditions in europe’. i believe that the labour inspection systems recommended in this report will help to improve working standards throughout the eu, as well as tackling undeclared work. i realise that over recent years, funding for labour inspection has been cut in many member states, which has often led to a rise in undeclared work and poor working standards. i hope that this report will begin to address this issue.
in writing. − in the wake of the economic crisis, funding for labour inspection authorities has been greatly reduced across europe, yet better inspections would help to ensure that workers’ rights are respected, to create fairer competition in the single market and to boost tax and social-security contributions by reducing the incidence of undeclared work. i supported this report, which proposes measures to improve working conditions in europe through more effective labour inspections. we need to tackle the complex subcontracting arrangements that allow workers to be exploited, and the report recommends measures to help inspection authorities to do this by addressing the misuse of agencies and the bogus self-employment which allow workers’ pay to be undercut and lead to social dumping. the report also proposes introducing an electronic social-security card to record important data for workers and reduce levels of undeclared work. i was disappointed, however, that a right-wing majority in parliament managed to block proposals for a social responsibility clause to be introduced into eu competition rules.
mr president, along with the much-welcomed reforms on the competitive and innovation framework, i welcome the new proposed guidelines set out for european financial participation by workers in the eu. as an mep for london, i know all too well the important role smes have to play in the city’s economy and their contribution to employment opportunities. one great example is the john lewis partnership, a brilliant example indeed of a successful cooperative business – but share options are another route that can be taken in that respect. by offering workers a chance to engage directly in the governance and financial success of the companies in which they work, employee financial participation (efp) can contribute to improving and also encouraging the productivity of their business and thus the competitiveness of european business as a whole. i must, however, note my concerns at the bennion reportʼs suggestion of presenting guidelines on the taxation of efp. tax matters, of course, must remain firmly in the sovereign control of individual member states, and i would point to the report’s overall tone in acknowledging the differences which already exist between member states in terms of their labour law and the benefits of participating in the efp scheme. nevertheless, overall, i welcome the new proposals set out in this report, on balance, and i am pleased that i, with my conservative colleagues, voted in favour. aligning the interests of management, the workforce and ownership is always a good thing in my view.
in writing. − despite the importance of protecting the rights of workers who invest in their companies, i abstained on the final vote on this report because of the addition of controversial passages on taxation. wales has a long history of worker ownership and participation, and it is important that legislation on these matters should be clear.
in writing. − this report aims to highlight the positive role which employee financial participation (efp) can play in developing participation by workers in the governance and financial success of the companies in which they work. i believe that this is, overall, a balanced report and i voted in favour of its adoption here today.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is vital for the economy of wales and the whole of the eu that all employees, including the self-employed, should have social protection. this report calls on member states to safeguard decent incomes for all, including young people in training and apprenticeships. this is of particular importance to us in plaid cymru as we attach high priority to expanding the number of apprenticeship places, and we have achieved that in the national assembly.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party voted for the blinkevičiūtė report, arguing for fair levels of social protection for the most vulnerable in our society. we specifically support eu action to combat bogus self-employment, which leaves workers without the protection they need. we did not support paragraph 20 of the report, as social security entitlements should be decided at national level.
in writing. − while we recognise that there are disparities between welfare entitlements for the self-employed and those for other workers, we do not believe it is the role of the eu to act in this area. there must be better recognition that national security systems are a member state competence. additionally, we are concerned about the implication in this text that anything other than permanent full-time employment is of low value. in britain, the existence of a flexible and responsive labour market is one of the key reasons why we have seen 1.4 million new jobs created since may 2010. this report also fails to recognise the value of entrepreneurship and self-employment – we must remember that smes and micro-enterprises are the driving forces of the eu economy. while we support member states’ efforts to challenge and combat undeclared work and other abuses or forms of non-compliance, these must be distinguished from new forms of legitimate employment, which often reflect personal choices, e.g. to balance family care or study. that is why my conservative colleagues and i voted against this report.
in writing. − this report addresses social security systems in europe in the context of the continuing economic difficulties facing member states. i believe that the matter of national security systems is a member state competence and therefore i could not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − today i voted in favour of the ‘social protection for all, including self-employed workers’ own-initiative procedure. i support this report because i believe that social protection systems need to be modernised, with responsible and sustainable long-term financing of social security, in order to ensure sound, sustainable and adequate social protection for all. i hope that this report helps to unravel bogus self-employment schemes in the uk, which have allowed companies to avoid paying national insurance, to deny their workers sick pay and to reduce benefit entitlements. i hope that this report will help to protect workers in the uk from malpractices, and to entrench their social security rights.
in writing. − at a time when youth unemployment levels are soaring across the eu, i share the committee’s desire to see preparations for cohesion policy funding in the period 2014-2020 take place in a timely and effective manner. the report rightly identifies the need for local and regional authorities to be involved in setting the priorities for european regional development fund and european social fund spending. in my constituency, northern ireland, i am encouraged that our devolved departments and local councils have cooperated in this way. i also welcome the committee’s focus on simplifying procedures and reducing administrative burdens. this is extremely important in terms of ensuring that organisations feel comfortable about applying for funding and equipped to do so. in northern ireland, the peace iv programme will form part of eu cohesion policy post-2014 and, while preparations continue, i am delighted that there will be an overriding focus in the new scheme on youth, skills and employment. this is vital to tackle the legacy of terrorism in our country, and i therefore look forward to the finalisation of the operational programme.
in writing. − this report looks at whether member states are prepared for the new funding programme. a delayed start was a problem in the funding period 2007-2013. in the event, there was very little time between the adoption of the legislation and the start of the funding period, and therefore little time for the member states to take into account the conclusions of this report. i believe strongly in the regional character of cohesion policy and programming and i opposed the rapporteur’s recommendation for a single national operational programme. that approach would have given the uk government, rather than the welsh government, responsibility for the funding programme: shifting power from wales to london. this would have been very damaging for the welsh economy. i am grateful to colleagues from the green/efa group who succeeded in amending the report. i voted in favour of the final version.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it looks at how prepared member states are for the next round of cohesion-policy funding. in light of the financial difficulties many member states are facing, it is vital that they are ready to start funding programmes as soon as possible at the beginning of this year. the report examines different reasons why states may not be prepared for this implementation phase.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which was prepared by my welsh mep colleague. it provides a timely opportunity to assess how prepared member states are for the next seven-year round of cohesion policy funding and it makes a number of positive recommendations on how to ensure that these funds are utilised as effectively as possible. i hope that member states and regions will continue their efforts to learn lessons from the successes and the failures of the funding period that has just ended, and that these lessons will be reflected in more targeted and more efficient deployment of funds during the 2014-2020 period.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report calling for binding targets for the collection, sorting and recycling of plastic waste. in wales we already have a plastic bag charge in place but this does not mean that our work is complete in terms of reducing the amount of plastic waste we produce. we urgently need to cut down on the plastic packaging of our products.
in writing. − it is right to minimise plastic waste and protect the environment. however, i do not believe that banning plastic bags should be a european-level decision. many smaller companies have creative solutions in the sustainable packaging sector. to enable economic growth we should avoid putting new burdens on smes and other businesses. we need to reduce red tape not increase it, and we must ‘think small first’ when it comes to new legislation. each plastic polymer has its own characteristics, uses, risks and benefits. any policy intervention, therefore, should focus on specific properties. it is vital to recognise the difference between single-use plastics and multi-use bags and between various alternative plastics. indeed, even within the category of oxy-biodegradable plastics there are products with fundamentally different properties. more work needs to be done on these before we rush into a ban. alternatives to single-use plastic bags, such as jute, cotton or paper bags, often use up more energy in production, and so they are not necessarily an environment-friendly option.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because there is a need for eu legislation on the use of plastic and how best we can recycle and cut down the environmental impact of this product. we need to drastically decrease the amount of plastic we use, but it is important that each member state is allowed to do this as it sees best, which this report allows.
in writing. − 79% of plastic waste is sent to the landfill or incineration instead of being recycled. the eu needs to introduce stringent rules on the member states to prevent this. in the meantime, this is a good step forward.
in writing. − improving the management of plastic waste is a goal that i fully support. i voted in favour of this report although i would like to see a better balance in efforts to tackle plastic waste effectively, in terms of avoiding placing burdens or costs on businesses, including smes.
in writing. − the european strategy on plastic waste in the environment is parliament’s response to the commission’s green paper on plastic waste, which recommends specific measures for this type of waste in eu legislation. currently, 79% of our plastic waste is sent for landfill or incineration, instead of being recycled. i voted in favour of the report in the hope that this wastefulness can be curtailed and that our resources can be used and disposed of in a more environment-friendly way. i was pleased to see moves towards phasing out the worst kinds of plastic, which are not biodegradable and are damaging to the environment, by 2020. i believe the success of the 5p charge for carrier bags in wales has shown that the public backs waste reduction, and i hope to see this initiative rolled out across europe.
in writing. − i voted against this report as the socialist rapporteur called for binding targets for collection, separation and recycling by 2020. an enforced, harmonised and overly bureaucratic set of rules on the disposal of plastic waste across the whole european union will further burden uk householders with additional requirements as to how much, and in what way, they need to recycle. this comes at a time when families already have to sort their rubbish into a variety of bins. furthermore, i am not in favour of binding targets for member states regarding the ban on landfilling, as there are great differences among the regions and differences in the types of waste they produce. in my view, a new proposal for legislation is nonsensical while we still have member states not complying with the existing legalisation. while i agree that we need to dispose of our waste better, we must not lose our grip on reality by applying a one-size-fits-all approach, and we must work hard to prevent the eu taking green rules to the extreme once again.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which promotes the sharing of good practice in rural economies. as a representative of wales, i know the importance of branding and the need, too, to ensure the high quality of products. there is much we can do to support rural economies, and this is an important factor.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to improve the competitiveness of the eu rural tourism industry and its capacity for growth. it wants to provide an eu-wide mechanism by which certain characteristics of regions can be promoted and help promote tourism in those regions.
in writing. − the ecr group was unable to support this report on regional branding for a number of reasons. member states already have well-established brands, ‘visitscotlandʼ and ‘britain is greatʼ in the uk, ‘regionální potravinaʼ and ‘chutná hezky jihočeskyʼ in the czech republic, and ‘visitamilano.itʼ in italy are just a few examples, and there are concerns that the creation of a generic quality brand could lead to a loss of distinctiveness for these existing brands. at eu level, there are three schemes currently in place: product with geographical indicator, product of designated origin and traditional speciality guaranteed. the ecr group believes that an additional eu branding scheme would be superfluous and costly – there is no need for additional eu branding, which would undermine existing systems already in place and working. the ecr group opposes the call for the commission to draw up an inventory of brands with specific regional features. we believe that regional branding should be managed and overseen by each member state and not by the eu.
in writing. − i fully support the existing schemes that the eu has in place to protect and promote regional produce – and i was particularly pleased to see a quality product from my own constituency, the pembrokeshire early potato, awarded protected geographical indication (pgi) status under one of these schemes at the end of last year. however, i have some concerns regarding the proposals that this report puts forward, in particular its calls for additional eu branding, which would undermine the already effectively functioning systems that are in place.
in writing. − regional branding can play a vital role in promoting goods and services that characterise a particular region. as highlighted in the report, this can contribute to developing rural economies, including tourism, and can also create new opportunities for goods and services on local and international markets. measures to promote rural development, tourism and the economy should be encouraged, and i support introducing a european regional quality brand. this report provides an overarching aim to improve the competitiveness of european rural tourism and improve the capacity for sustainable growth in rural areas.
that concludes the explanations of votes.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and also as the shadow rapporteur on both the directives, may i say that it is a very special day for all of us, and particularly for me, having chaired the conciliation meetings, to be here today after an extremely long process. one of the reasons we have a very good outcome – and i am pleased that, generally, across the different committees, the work we have done is now being fully appreciated for its economic and political (and, i would also say, strategic) importance for europe – is that we did not just wait until you, mr barnier, sent us some very good material to work with but, since 2009, when i became chair, we have worked on public procurement as a policy. i was really delighted that heide rühle’s group did her the honour of giving her six minutes’ speaking time. she deserved that because she was rapporteur for two own-initiative reports which got us here. this has been an immensely complex challenge. we have to make this a complete repositioning of public procurement, as a tool for encouraging the better, more innovative and more efficient delivery of public services across the board, whether they are concessions in the area of transport or catering or concern the simple procurement of goods or services. we have to say to public procurers that this is not just a question of getting in the tenders and selecting the lowest price, but that they have to sharpen up their act, as smart customers, to decide exactly what it is that they want. we are giving them the opportunity to do some proper negotiation with the suppliers to match up their requirements with what those suppliers can deliver. if they can provide them with a better and more innovative solution, then they can take that solution. this is the rethinking here. it must not be a legalistic process but a process that delivers better outcomes. i was delighted that claude turmes talked about innovative procurement and, commissioner, you mentioned that very specifically. we have an entirely new tool here to enable an innovative supplier to work with a customer and, over an extended period, to develop and deploy a solution. that customer will be doing the european economy a service by supporting that innovative company. that is how important this proposal is. i would just say in conclusion to the commissioner that, in the next cycle of this parliament, we need his successors in the directorate-general for internal market and services to give attention to transposition in the same way as for the services directive. there has to be an equally intensive period of working with member states to deliver the real benefits of this proposal, otherwise we will have done all this work in vain.
mr president, as we have heard, public procurement is of central importance to the economy. in my constituency in wales, only half of public contracts are awarded to welsh companies, and if that figure was increased to 75 % we might see the creation of almost 50 000 jobs. eu rules have often been blamed for being too complicated and preventing the award of contracts to local and regional businesses. we must have policies that are fair and effective, and this should not be to the detriment of our environment or of our citizens. i welcome the possibilities for more sustainability in terms of clarity in the use of environmental, social and fair trade criteria, and also the splitting up of large contracts, making things easier for small businesses and cutting red tape. i hope that these changes will help strengthen the economy and provide more opportunities in the future for innovation and job creation.
mr president, the subject of public procurement brings to mind the problems with the brussels hemicycle. the hemicycle was, of course, closed in september 2012 because cracks were discovered in three of the beams holding up the roof. in december 2012 we were told that parliament was having difficulty in finding a builder to do the repair work. this was, apparently, because they were concerned about the ten-year guarantee required. if the chamber is reopened in april, as promised, it will have been closed for 18 months. surely parliament’s public procurement procedures should have been able to find a builder willing to do the work, given that money is no problem? some might suspect that the long delay was deliberate, in order to prevent the brussels chamber being used as the sole meeting place of this parliament, thereby ending the monthly and expensively monstrous trek to strasbourg. if parliament cannot organise its own public procedure policies, how can it possibly hope to organise everybody else’s?
madam president, at this time of economic uncertainty, i welcome these proposals. they would make public procurement less costly, faster and more advantageous for businesses across europe. in my constituency of northern ireland, 99 % of enterprises are small or medium-sized, and this package would allow many of these to compete better within public procurement. buyers would be encouraged to break contracts into lots in order to ensure that not just large contractors benefit. in addition, a turnover cap for bidders would facilitate greater participation by smes. these are proposals that my colleagues in the departments of finance and enterprise have rightly emphasised in negotiations, and they stand to increase competitiveness within the overall process in northern ireland. the package would also simplify the assessment process, reducing bidder response times, encouraging e-procurement and allowing social considerations to be integrated into contracts. these factors would undoubtedly help harness the transformative potential of public procurement. bidders could also be excluded on grounds of poor past performance. ultimately, the focus on cutting red tape and making the system more efficient and credible is important, and for this reason i would urge parliament to endorse the package.
madam president, i would like to start by thanking our rapporteur, marc tarabella, for his excellent work and for persevering through the negotiations to achieve a progressive piece of legislation. while there are elements which we would have liked to take further, this is progress and a very good compromise. the public procurement process will now be faster, less costly and more effective for suppliers and procurers alike. there will be less red tape and more focus on getting the right supplier and the best tender. especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, the process of bidding should be quicker, less costly and more competitive. i hope to see the achievements reflected in the new scottish public procurement bill because, if they are implemented correctly, we will see a much more sustainable approach to procurement that will encompass our social and environmental goals. one area in particular that needs to be implemented correctly is article 76(a). this should be used only to benefit social enterprises and mutuals and should not be used as privatisation through the back door.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, colleagues, i wish today to express my complete rejection of the commission’s proposal, and as such i, alongside a number of colleagues from across the chamber, have tabled an amendment to do just that. while the rapporteur has been open to a number of discussions surrounding the proposal and has understood our concerns, i cannot join him in voting through this very dangerous piece of legislation. throughout this process i have given my reasons why the eu should not pursue what i see to be a protectionist trade measure. firstly, the proposal itself is based on the view that the eu currently offers unrestricted access to its own procurement markets, while eu member states struggle for reciprocal access. but this has been identified as at best completely over-exaggerated, with evidence showing that chinese and us markets have gradually become more open and have remained more open than both the german and french markets since 1995. one cannot but help feel that the commission’s argument is an attempt to wrestle control of public procurement policy from member states, including the british citizens that i represent. i believe that would be taking a major risk, and it is fair to say that the commission also has no idea as to how third countries will react to being left out of the eu’s public procurement market. china’s retaliatory reaction to the eu’s anti-dumping levies on chinese solar panel imports is a case in point. the damage to our international trade relationships across the world could take years to repair, while those countries build relationships elsewhere – not to mention the risk to our own single market and increased public procurement costs for our taxpayers. by supporting the commission proposal, i have the distinct feeling that we are shooting ourselves in the foot. if our aim is to open up procurement markets across the world, we should continue to support the government procurement agreement, which we ratified amendments to last year. instead of pursuing this protectionist policy, we must keep our markets open.
madam president, i see this proposal as being about fairness. i entirely reject my conservative colleague’s rather naive view of rampant unbridled liberalisation and the idea that, simply by virtue of the european union doing the right thing, our foreign competitors will also do the right thing. as others have said, this is not a report about protectionist measures. we are not encouraging the closure of public procurement markets in the european union, and we do not see this as an over-aggressive tool to force market liberalisation abroad. it is simply about rebalancing our trading relationships where they have tilted too far from the european union towards our competitors. indeed, under these proposals, the commission is required to investigate and support claims of a substantial lack of reciprocity before member states can act. so this is not a tool which can be used on the whim of protectionists. i should also like to add that there are important measures in this which balance what we have just done in the previous debate and bring our foreign trade rules into line with the internal market rules. of course, as others have said, it is important to add that this does not apply to the least-developed countries. this is not a tool attacking the poorest in the world.
madam president, i am not reassured that this proposal is not protectionist, because that is exactly what it ought to be. the countries of europe, individually or collectively, ought to protect their jobs and their businesses. the question which has not been asked is whether it is in the interests of any country or trading bloc, if you will, to open its public procurement market to other countries or blocs. public expenditure is ultimately funded by domestic taxes, but if it generates economic activity – and it does – it should be for the benefit of that country or those countries’ own peoples. the report confirms that market access by companies from third countries is part of the common commercial policy which falls under the exclusive competence of the union. the eu’s wish to maximise international access to these markets shows that the eu is not so much a european union as a global union in waiting.
rapporteur. − madam president, in september 2009, following the discovery of pollen from gm maize in honey, the european court of justice ruled that pollen is an ingredient of honey. with all due respect to the court, they are wrong: pollen is not an ingredient, and any beekeeper will tell you so. pollen is present in honey due to bees’ activity and is not deliberately added by the beekeeper. it is technically impossible to produce honey free from pollen. in fact it is not permitted for beekeepers to add anything. honey is considered by producers and consumers alike to be the ultimate natural product, made entirely by bees and free from human interference. this includes the various constituents particular to honey, such as pollen. to define pollen as an ingredient would cause reputational damage to honey by implying that its production is not a wholly natural process. this is a dangerous road to start on. products with ingredients need to have them listed on a label. if pollen were to be defined as an ingredient, honey would need to display a list of ingredients. to have a list reading ‘ingredients: honey, pollen’ would obviously not be providing any additional information to the consumer and would only create an unnecessary labelling burden. for the reasons i have mentioned, the commission felt it necessary to come forward with a proposal clarifying the definition of pollen as a ‘constituent’. i have supported this position from the beginning, as have most of the member state governments. i do not do this blindly. of course, as an active mep i have not let this proposal go unchallenged. it is parliament’s job to investigate all aspects and come up with alternatives, but in this case i have concluded that there is only one answer: pollen is not an ‘ingredient’ of honey. of course, the ingredient/constituent argument has arisen due to the labelling implications of each option. if pollen continues to be considered a ‘constituent’, any gm pollen present would not need to be labelled. this is because, according to the gm regulation, only gm content above 0.9 % needs to be labelled. since pollen only forms around 0.5 % of any batch of honey, it would never exceed the labelling threshold. if pollen is to be considered an ‘ingredient’, then the 0.9 % threshold applies to the total pollen rather than the total honey. pollen would therefore need to be tested for gm content and, where it exceeds 0.9 %, it would need to be labelled. there are some in this chamber who are actively promoting this latter option even though it is based on a false premise, because it would lead to some honey being labelled as food produced from gmos. by doing this, i think they believe they will score a small victory in the fight against gmos, but they would in the process be using honey producers as collateral damage. they will argue that they are doing this in the interest of consumers and to increase transparency about the gm content of food. if they succeed, i think they will be doing the exact opposite. lying to consumers by stating that pollen is an ingredient is not a good start. if gm pollen is labelled, consumers will be receiving inconsistent information about gm content when compared with other foods. either the 0.9 % labelling threshold applies to all food or to none. to make an exception of honey by requiring gm content below the threshold to be labelled will only serve to confuse consumers about labelling laws. there has been a lot of scaremongering surrounding this proposal, much of it designed to create uncertainty in the sector. if the commission proposal is not adopted, there will be negative consequences for the sector, as all honey producers will be required to test their honey to check the gm content, and some will be required to label if gm pollen is found to be present. small producers will be hit hardest by the testing requirements. parliament’s own policy department found that the cost of each test would be eur 94 per batch. this may not seem much if you are making a large batch, but for many small producers the cost could be very crippling. to conclude, i ask you this: do we really want to base legislation on a false premise and then subsequently force small-scale beekeepers out of business? or do we want to put an end to years of legal uncertainty in the sector and finally allow our beekeepers to get back to what they do best: providing us with quality european honey?
madam president, this debate is really about whether you think gmos are dangerous or evil, and of course about those who are attempting to use this legislation to gain a financial advantage over their competitors. i am sure there are some people who think there are important issues of principle here, but when principles are tested in this way, they start to look ridiculous. if pollen is an ingredient in honey, then surely it must be added artificially. someone must be adding it – and the finger of blame must be pointed at the bees. the greens would have us believe that these are bad bees, criminal bees, deliberately contaminating honey with a dangerous ingredient, but in fact they are doing what honey bees have always done, which is to carry pollen back to their hives to feed their young. and in those hives, the pollen – whether it has come from gmos or not – is perfectly harmless, according to the european food safety authority. naturally it gets into the honey, so they are good bees doing good work, and the greens should lay off them.
madam president, i must begin today by thanking my colleague julie girling for her excellent work on this report. she has expertly navigated this incredibly difficult issue, and i am hugely disappointed that the committee on the environment (envi) did not support her eminently sensible and highly laudable report. the industry has many battles to face. the colony collapse crisis has been primary amongst these. while beekeepers battle to save their bees, we must battle to save their industry. in order to do this, we must support the commission proposal and the amendments which designate pollen as a constituent of honey. the amendments proposed in the envi committee would require labelling that indicates ingredients, which would tell the consumer that additions have been made to the honey. i need only hint at some of the arguments already put forward here tonight to show how unnecessary this would be and that it would only cause confusion to consumers. i want to see the european production of honey increase. the eu has to consume more honey than anywhere else in the world. honey producers must be able to capitalise on the markets right on their doorstep and should not be hindered or left unresolved by the fight over semantics between the eu institutions. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i think i would say to mr peterle – and here i am assuming he is the shadow rapporteur for the ppe group – that the consumers of europe are not as foolish as some people seem to think they are. the argument which was made very well by mr davies, when he spoke before me, laid out what some people are trying to achieve with regard to this report. what we have got here is an eminently sensible suggestion from the commission and a sensible report from the rapporteur, and i suspect that this house will take that report on board and go forward with it, and that this will help beekeepers.
rapporteur. − mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank everyone who has spoken. we have seen clearly from the debate that this discussion is about gmo and about labelling. i would just like to remind colleagues that i submitted this report on 19 december 2012, and we have spent an awfully long time running around pretending it was not about these things. it has taken until today to get it absolutely clear and out in the open that this is what it is about. i would like to make the point, however, that that is not what the report is about. many members here seem to have either forgotten or maybe to be deliberately ignoring the fact that, as the commissioner said, all foodstuffs have a gmo adventitious threshold of 0.9 %: all of them. honey too. if you want to single out honey as something exceptional (and that is clearly what some members want to do), be very clear about your motives for doing that and about what the ramifications for the honey industry could be. i would like now to clear up one or two issues. we heard talk about distance, namely that this would be ok because we have an amendment in there about 10 kilometres. what nonsense! there is an amendment in the report, which went through the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which suggests that the commission should look at the figure of 10 kilometres. it does not guarantee it, and indeed there is no legal instrument for guaranteeing that at all. you must simply put that to one side: it is not an aspect of our deliberations here. what we are deliberating on here is very simple. also, i am, quite frankly, shocked by some colleagues’ propensity for seeking to go along with what the european court of justice said just because they said it. the court of justice has a very important function, but we in this parliament, and indeed in the commission and council as co-legislators, also have a very important function, which is to reconsider how our legislation is framed, on the basis of comments from the court. and that is precisely what we are doing. so perhaps i can do no better than to echo the point that ms sommer made. she said that this is a regulation on food, not on gmos. let us stick to that.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. − mr president, by their very nature, smuggling, counterfeiting and fraud are cross-border crimes which adversely affect the financial interests of the member states of the european union. it is therefore entirely logical and necessary that the member states should work together to combat such crimes, but it is also logical that the european union should support their efforts wherever possible. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets, i therefore welcome this report, and i am very pleased to see how many of our amendments were incorporated into the final text: for that i thank our rapporteur. there are, however, two further points which i would like to make. the first is that to improve the long-term impact of spending under this programme – and thereby ultimately to protect taxpayers’ money – it is important for us to ensure that synergies with other national initiatives are strengthened. in doing so, it is crucial for the member states, the commission and the competent authorities to ensure that they reduce overlap and duplication with other eu and member state programmes and anti-fraud tools. i welcome the specific references that the rapporteur has put into the final text in that respect. secondly, i refer to the opinion of the court of auditors. this should have been taken into account prior to the adoption of this report. had that been the case, the auditors’ comments could have been fully taken into account in the preparation of the report. i believe that omission was a mistake, because i agree with the auditors’ observations on implementation. there is a need for more independent evaluation reports, for greater emphasis on delivering european added value – particularly in terms of technical assistance – and for focusing on results achieved against planned objectives. finally, i share the auditors’ views on co-finance for this programme. i accept and am sympathetic to the need to consider funding levels on a case-by-case, state-by-state basis, but nevertheless they observe – and i agree – that raising levels of co-finance is unlikely to deliver any additional benefit.
mr president, there is no doubt that smuggling and the counterfeiting of cigarettes are matters of serious concern for us all. the large sums of money lost, which should be going to exchequers across the eu, are significant, and this means that front-line services are not being as well supported as they should be. but let us be honest: the amounts of taxpayers’ money wasted by the eu institutions are also significant. some 4.8 % of the eu budget in 2012 was spent on regional projects which should never have received the money – a total of eur 5.5 billion. only in december did we learn that billions in aid to gaza and egypt cannot be properly accounted for, having been spent on out-of-work politicians. and almost every month we receive a new court of auditors’ report spelling out more errors and more wasted money. if meps are serious about looking after eu financial interests, they should look closer to home as well as to the hercule iii programme.
madam president, at a time when national governments across europe are seeking to encourage economic opportunity and increase competitiveness, it is disheartening that this parliament is yet again considering proposals that will restrict the activity of lorry drivers. my constituency is northern ireland. it rests on the very edge of europe and relies heavily on its road transport industry, which includes many self-employed hauliers. drivers are already highly regulated by existing tachograph rules, and the new recommendations would serve to further constrain their work by recording location data at three-hour intervals rather than at the start and end of the journey. inspecting authorities would also be given further powers through remote communication to assess vehicles before stopping them. this type of intrusion is completely unwarranted. ultimately, although the council has rightly chosen to exclude non-professional hauliers from the scope of the proposals (and this will include farmers), i believe that they will have a significant impact on lorry drivers and the public purse.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we need a new revolution to help industry. in the 1870s nearly a third of the world’s manufactured goods were made in the uk alone, but now europe makes less than a fifth of the total, and last year only one european country made it into the top ten most competitive countries for manufacturing. we cannot go back to the past, but for a better future we need to address the competitiveness crisis. in some areas our manufacturing is working well. look at the recent success in the uk car industry – success built on a flexible, highly-skilled workforce, coupled with research and innovation. having a flexible, skilled workforce plus unlocking innovation equals helping companies to create jobs. too often our innovators have had great ideas which we have then seen exploited and turned into products in other parts of the globe. that is why i support policies which help turn research into reality. however, we also need competitive cost-bases, especially for our energy-intensive companies. look at the glass industry. in europe in the past two years, 12 plants have shut down but 17 plants are opening on our borders, plants that will supply us with products but will not pay our carbon taxes. tax rates also need to be competitive, and i oppose calls in this report for tax harmonisation. those calls come from countries which do not want to make structural reforms and want to drag the rest of us down. taxation decisions rest with member states, not with europe, and i will vote against this report if tax harmonisation stays in it. the single market is meant to be a free market. it is meant to break down barriers for business. it is meant to help companies trade easily across borders. it is not meant to be about bureaucracy and cost. in the uk, a business taskforce recently identified a long list of detailed and specific changes that need to be made to eu laws. if we want our world-class products to be made within our borders, we need to support businesses and make those changes to our laws. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question. the problem, as i see it, is that we have a crisis of competiveness: unless we are competitive in industry we will not create jobs, and we need jobs. tax competitiveness is a key part of it. if you have low taxes for businesses, businesses move within your borders. if other countries want to levy high taxes, that is their choice. but decisions about taxes for business within the eu rest at member state level, not at eu level. so any call for tax harmonisation will therefore be met with an absolute ‘no’ from my political group.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr samaras for entertaining us this morning with his grand vision of europe, which i have to say i thought was particularly ironic given that greece, more than any other country, has suffered at the hands of grand, abstract visions that are not rooted in reality. in greece, the federalist dream has become the nightmare of the greek people. many people in this chamber and elsewhere dreamt of the common currency, the ultimate symbol of european statehood, but of course they were not honest about the cost that would have to be exacted should a crisis occur. the people of greece are paying the price of those mistakes. prime minister, you told us this morning that it was time to enjoy the fruits of the union. well, perhaps the three million people who are unemployed in your country might think that those fruits are perhaps turning a little sour today. of course mistakes do happen and, to be fair, you acknowledged them in your speech. what is important is that we learn the lessons from those mistakes. in france, president hollande is now beginning to realise just how disastrous socialism can be. he is almost – not quite, but almost – embracing capitalism. i understand that he is even now calling himself a social democrat rather than a socialist. i am not quite sure what the difference is, but apparently it makes a big difference in france. but of course his credibility is now shot as he does a 180° u-turn. in fact a ‘social democrat’ is one of the more polite things that he has been called in recent days, but never mind. in the eu i fear that we are not willing to learn the lessons of the euro crisis. if we do not learn them, then of course, as the saying goes, we are destined to repeat them. i was interested in an article recently drafted by jochen bittner, the political editor of die zeit, who warned of the eu’s supernova moment. if we had a cosmonaut in this chamber – as i think we did until fairly recently – he would tell you that a star reaches its greatest destiny just before it explodes. in his article, mr bittner rightly concludes that the best way to prevent this is to activate the reverse thrust for certain parts of the unification project, as a way to reduce the continent’s political stress. that is the direction the eu needs to go in now. it needs to listen to people from across the eu who are now calling for major change. failure to take action now will run the risk of the eu itself going supernova, but thankfully i am pleased to say that there are now an increasing number of those of us who are talking about, and acting on, the way that the eu needs to change. let me quote to you from a recent article: ‘some others want to change things, acting against the tide of the ‘brussels elite’. these are the modern, the courageous, the defenders of a realist europe. david cameron is one’. now that was not written by some eurosceptic british conservative mp. i am sorry that mr daul has departed, because it was actually by rachida dati, a member of the epp – his party. prime minister, that is the agenda that i would like to have seen your presidency advance. your country is best placed to sound the alarm bells for the eu, to warn of the cost of grand abstract plans and to suggest a looser, freer europe. unfortunately, you have chosen business as usual. let me raise a couple of points that are included in your dossier for the greek presidency. firstly, the banking union has been mentioned: the single resolution mechanism. we think the agreement reached by the council on the single resolution mechanism (srm) is a fairly innovative way to protect eurozone banks and, of course – much more importantly – to protect taxpayers from across the eurozone and non-eurozone countries. this parliament, in my view, would be ill-advised to hold this deal to ransom just because some elements are intergovernmental in nature. we need to put what works before grand abstract concepts. with the srm, the council has come up with an agreement that works and that we should support. secondly, i look forward to the publication next week of the 2030 climate and energy package. from what i read (if it is true), instead of legislation on shale gas exploitation, we will merely see guidelines. what we should be doing is exploiting this resource for the future of europe. prime minister, just as bill clinton once said that the era of big government is over, today the era of the big eu is now over. if we can drop the abstract visions, lose the dogma and focus on a better, more practical europe, we will be able to tell the greek people that their hard-fought lessons have not been in vain. i wish you well in the months ahead. i truly hope that the greek presidency will remind europe and the world that greece is a nation of great people and that it has a great heritage and, with the right reforms at home and in the eu, a great future. if i would also just be permitted for 30 seconds, i would like to come back on the comments made by mr swoboda about the so-called populist statements – as he referred to them – of david cameron. i thought this might come up, so i have brought along a newspaper headline for mr swoboda: ‘miliband: stop cheap foreign workers’. i accept that most of you have probably never heard of mr miliband, but he is the leader of the labour party, a member of mr swoboda’s own party. so before you start accusing mr cameron, perhaps you should look a little bit closer to home with your populist statements.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i must congratulate you, mr samaras, for getting the greek presidency off to such a cracking start. i am sure your overnight successful negotiations in the trialogue on the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) will have them dancing in the streets of athens. no matter that your country, very poorly advised by goldman sachs, joined a currency which it was never suited to; no matter that 30 % are unemployed, that 60 % of young people are unemployed, that a neo-nazi party is on the march, that there was a terrorist attack on the german embassy. no, do not worry about all that, because the trialogue on mifid has been a success, and in many ways it sums up the two europes: the europe that is talked about in here by the dreamers, who want to impose a united states of europe with an identity and currency, and the real world out there. and you come here, mr samaras, and tell us that you represent the sovereign will of the greek people? well, i am sorry, but you are not in charge of greece, and i suggest you rename and rebrand your party. it is called new democracy. i suggest you call it no democracy, because greece is now under foreign control. you cannot make any decisions, you have been bailed out and you have surrendered. democracy: the thing your country invented in the first place, and you cannot admit that joining the euro was a mistake, because of course mr papandreou did that, didn’t he? he even said there should be a referendum in greece – and within 48 hours the unholy trinity that now run this european union had him removed and replaced by an ex-goldman sachs employee puppet. we are run now by big business, big banks and, in the shape of mr barroso, big bureaucrats, and that is what these european elections are really going to be all about. it is going to be a battle of national democracy versus eu state democracy. whatever you may say in this chamber, the people out there do not want a united states of europe, they want a europe of sovereign states trading and working together, and i believe the european elections are going to mark a watershed. until now everybody has thought – much as they may not like the development of the european union – that it was inevitable. that myth of inevitability will be shattered by the european elections this year.
mr president, it is poignant that greece should take over the presidency at this time. greece is the living embodiment of the failure of the troika and indeed the euro project. mr samaras, you talk about the mistakes of your country over decades. surprisingly, you failed to put any blame where it truly belongs, namely on the pro-federalising eurocrats who ignore the maastricht convergence criteria to push on with their project of a federal euro-state. linking the greek economy with such a powerhouse as germany was utter madness, and your people paid the price – not least with a suicide rate that increased by 46 %. in your speech you stated that your first commitment was to ever-closer eu integration. are you not learning from the lessons of history? are you not condemned to relive them? you cannot play political make-believe with people’s lives. your people and people across europe came out onto the streets to show their displeasure at the medication for the eurocrats’ mental illness. greece is the birthplace of democracy, and this year people across europe will have the chance to put a dagger in the heart of the european union. a significant number of these people have plenty of time to go to the polling station as they are unemployed, a core failure of the eu project. mr samaras, you are in make-believe land if you think the eu is the solution. in the uk we also have a leader who lives in make-believe land and who believes that he can renegotiate serious powers from the eu before a referendum. but we have heard this con trick before. the british people have waited far too long to have the choice to leave this corrupt and doomed mess that is the eu. in may’s elections we will let the people decide. we will put the option on the ballot paper in britain for the people to demand a referendum now.
madam president, prime minister, 2014 is supposed to be the year of democracy in europe, but what kind of democracy tears up its own constitution, bans demonstrations to prove the people are happy, sends machine gun-toting storm-troopers to arrest democratically elected mps and imprisons opponents without trial when they cannot disprove hearsay allegations made against them by police informers? totalitarians like you always justify such attacks on freedom with propaganda lies about criminal association but, mr samaras, your bankers’ occupation government – now busy helping your masters loot greece – are the real criminals. you are the heir of the communists who refused to fight when your country was invaded by mussolini, when metaxas said ‘no’ and fought foreign occupation and exploitation – which is of course the real crime of its modern political descendants, golden dawn.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm sure the next six months will be very positive. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. madam president, as you know from my name, i have a very special connection with greece and, as a british mep, i represent approximately 300 000 greeks from greece and cyprus. it is with their support that i make the following comments. in the past six years, greeks have endured much suffering. troika decisions have not been easy to swallow, but greece is now technically on the road to recovery, albeit a fragile one. at this crucial time i urge brussels to back off and give greece the space it needs to start growing its economy. let us not hinder any progress by imposing restrictions and hurting the greek people. the answer is trade, not the troika. i wish you success, mr president.
madam president, i would like to ask the president-in-office if he could please take this chance to express strong political support for efforts to solve the cyprus problem. first, mr anastasiades needs, i think, to be pushed to agree the draft joint statement with the turkish cypriots. following such an agreement, can you confirm that you will welcome the representative of the turkish cypriots, mr ertuğ, to athens?
mr president, i submitted an amendment to the 2015 calendar, together with 40 other meps. this reduced our sessions in strasbourg from four to three days. president schulz has ruled this amendment inadmissible. his office advised me this morning that this was because the court ruling on our 2012 calendar prevents us from reducing our sessions from four days. i have that ruling and i have read it this morning. nowhere does it prevent us changing the length of our sessions. it notes our working practice of having four-day sessions. it makes that as a finding of fact, but not of law. the court held as a point of law that our sessions must be of the same length, and my amendment is consistent in that. i would ask that the president reconsider his decision, seek legal advice and perhaps read the judgment. in accordance with rule 175, on behalf of my group i request that this matter be referred back to the conference of presidents for further discussion. (applause)
mr president, whatever the merit of mr fox’s proposal, it has been ruled inadmissible. on a previous occasion, when mr fox tabled amendments to the calendar in 2010, mr schulz and mr daul argued for a postponement of the vote to seek the legal position. on that occasion it took four months. mr fox has had an informal opinion from the president. i, too, have had an informal legal opinion, which says that mr fox’s amendments are actually compliant with the ruling of the european court of justice. mr fox is a lawyer, and you are a lawyer. the epp amendment, which has been ruled admissible, states that four of these new wednesday afternoon mini-sessions (ten of them in brussels) should be deleted, but i am not convinced of the legality of us allowing ourselves to vote for those ten sessions outside the ordinary procedure. therefore, the proposal i make to the house is that we should postpone the vote on the 2015 calendar until one of the two plenaries in february – that is a matter of two or three weeks (or four or five weeks) – when we should have absolute clarity on the legal position on this calendar. after all, the only capacity the european court of justice has allowed us as a house – and, as you know, i lead a campaign to give us the right to choose when, where and how we meet (but that has so far not been totally successful, even though 73 % of you voted in november in favour of the fox-häfner report) – is to postpone the vote until one of the february plenary sessions in strasbourg. (loud applause)
mr president, we do not agree with the judgement that the president has made, and we think it is appropriate to seek legal advice before we take a final decision on this. it is an opinion which splits groups and divides the house, but we think it is sensible to take another two or three weeks to consider the legal opinion properly in order to decide what we can legally do and what we legally cannot do, and not just take president schultz’s decision without any checks or balances. therefore we think it is appropriate to refer the matter back to the conference of presidents for further consideration.
mr president, for all anybody knows in here, i could have wandered around the european union with some gm oilseed rape, with seed saved from my trial in 2002, and plastered the continent with it. that would now be flowering away and bees would be taking pollen from that and putting it into honey. nobody knows. you cannot control it.
rapporteur. − mr president, according to rule 57(2), i would like to request a suspension of the vote in order to start negotiations with the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to revise the competences of the standing committees in order to ensure that they are properly defined in the rules of procedure in time for the new 2014-2019 parliamentary term.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation to repeal the specific programme on terrorism to 2013. risk management has to be constantly updated. i work in the interests of my constituents in wales.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which will facilitate the appropriate legal base for changes to the eu’s funding programme to protect people and critical infrastructure against terrorist attacks and other security-related incidents. under the new programme for 2014-2020, the internal security fund will now include an instrument designed to support police cooperation, action to prevent and combat crime, and crisis management, while still maintaining many already existing activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important that we continue our cooperation with third countries on science and technology. this benefits scotland in many ways: we get the top technology in our homes, and healthcare, and our students and academics have more access to knowledge. it is important that we continue this type of cooperation.
in writing. − i voted to approve the renewal of this eu agreement with russia on cooperation in science and technology.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal, as this highly technical report was largely uncontroversial and will make the rules on the minting of euro coins easier. the euro has a huge impact on all of us, including on my constituents in wales, so a clarification of the rules is to be welcomed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which proposes to approve changes to the existing legislation concerning euro coins.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it calls for relations between the eu and asean to be strengthened. we share many political beliefs and all want to promote economic well-being, cooperation and peace in our respective regions. i believe closer cooperation between our two regions will be beneficial for all.
in writing. − this report highlights the important work that is being done to strengthen ties between the eu and the association of southeast asian nations (asean) countries. it is important that we continue to assess how these ties can be further reinforced and how the eu can enhance its contribution to asean’s integration process. therefore i voted in favour of the report today.
mr president, in common, i suspect, with most people in the chamber, whenever i visit a firm in my constituency, particularly a smaller and medium-sized enterprise, and ask if there is anything i can do to help, the top answer by miles is: ‘get out of our way, do nothing, leave us alone.’ here, discussing this proposal, we have a classic example of it. we passed a well-intentioned law saying that people should not work for more than 48 hours and that there need to be statutory rest periods for drivers and so on. what the lawmakers fail to understand is that the hassle lies not in imposing the law, but in proving to the inspector that you have complied with the regulation: the days off work you have to take; the logs you have to keep; all the unnecessary cost and bureaucracy involved in showing, to the satisfaction of the authorities, that you have met the requirements. now we are reduced to spying on people to make sure that lorry drivers are not in breach of the working time directive. as the great chinese sage lao tzu said, 600 years before the birth of christ: ‘do nothing and the people will, of themselves, prosper.’
mr president, it is important when we consider issues like this to get the right balance. of course we all want to see safer roads. no one wants to see unsafer roads, as it were, but at the same time we have to balance that against the cost of businesses. in seeking to do so we must make sure, as my colleague dan hannan has said previously, that the costs are not prohibitive. i get complaints from companies quite often saying, once again, that this may suit the large companies that have compliance departments and are able to comply with the laws, but for small businesses it quite often affects them disproportionately. so when we look at legislation like this it is important to get that balance right between solving a problem on the one hand, and the costs to businesses of compliance on the other. also in this particular area we should look at all the problems surrounding civil liberties and privacy and data, and we should make sure that the data is only being used for what it is supposed to be used for, without undermining public rights. if we can get that balance right then maybe, just maybe, we can achieve a more competitive market across the eu.
in writing. − i voted against the decision to reject the council position. the provisions on data protection and the automatic recording of driving time and speed are to be welcomed. i thank those of my constituents in wales who contacted me on the issue of road safety, and i hope this is one measure that will assist in this regard.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate the colleagues involved for the hard work undertaken in the trialogue process to reach what is a satisfactory second-reading agreement on this revision of the rules on tachographs. the agreement that was reached successfully addresses key concerns identified at the first-reading vote on this issue. in light of the improvements, i voted in favour of the report today.
mr president, we are often told that half of the uk’s trade is with the european union. it is actually now less than half, by all calculations, but let us not cavil – it is still a fairly large whack. however, only 14 % of our total gdp depends on the european union because, in common with every other country, the majority of our economic activity is domestic. if you go to your newsagent and buy a newspaper, you are adding to the gdp of your country; you are not adding to its export figures. so 14 % of our gdp is with the eu, about 15 % is with the rest of the world and the other 71 % is domestic, yet the whole of the 100 % is subject to 100 % of regulations like these: the full mass of the acquis communautaire applies to the 86 % of our economy that is not related to the single market, as well as to the 14 % that is. if we want to make our countries more competitive, how about the following modest proposal: why not exempt the companies that do not engage in cross-border activity from the full mass of regulatory compliance with the single market?
mr president, when looking at the award of concessions, it is important that the state, which is quite often the awarder of concessions, gets value for money for its taxpayers. we have to make sure that the conditions are right. i support my ecr colleagues’ suggestion that we should leave it to the contractor to decide on many of these rules but that at the same time we have to make sure that these contracts are as open as possible, to ensure that small companies have as much right to compete for these contracts as the big companies, which may well have had a cosy relationship in the past. so it is important that we deal with these issues and get the compliance right as well. but let us not forget that if we want to make sure that we have a competitive market and that we have value for money for the taxpayers, it is important that we deal with these issues in an open and transparent way, so that we can encourage new competitors into the market and make sure that taxpayers finally get value for money.
in writing. − this directive is linked to the two directives on public procurement. however, a concession is a specific form of contract between a public authority and an economic operator for the latter to carry out works or operate services while bearing the economic risk. although parliament was of the view that there was no need for specific legislation on concessions, the commission came up with this legislative proposal. i voted in favour following the exclusion of water services. this was essential for wales.
in writing. − this directive on concessions is one of a package of three which represent a major reform of the eu public procurement system. negotiations on the directives comprising this reform have been lengthy, and i would like to congratulate the colleagues involved on the agreement that has been reached. i strongly support the reform package and i therefore voted in favour of this agreement on the concessions directive.
mr president, this report is about extending procurement to cover non-economic criteria, allowing firms to factor in things like fairtrade coffee and so on. i want to make an unpopular point, which is against the spirit of the age. the most moral way for a businessman to behave is honestly to maximise his profit and then give whatever he can out of his earnings to charity. i say that it is against the spirit of the age, because our emphasis now is on corporate social responsibility, encouraging people to do things other than maximise their profit: encourage them to have different criteria – charitable, environmental or whatever. but if you think about it, what is happening there is that the proprietor of the firm is shuffling off his social obligations to his suppliers, his customers or his shareholders. he gets to feel good with somebody else’s money. better by far to drop any pretence about anything except efficiency and then behave as a moral individual. as charles wesley, the founder of methodism, put it: get all you can, save all you can, give all you can.
mr president, a previous speaker spoke about the lack of transparency when it comes to public procurement and about the cosy relationships between those who are awarding contracts and contractors bidding for those contracts. some of the ideas behind this report say that we should make sure that there are other criteria than just price when it comes to awarding those contracts. if you are going to insist on those other criteria, then rather than just accepting the most competitive bid, you have to be as transparent as possible. otherwise, what you may well end up doing is actually reinforcing those cosy relationships. so let us make sure that we have as much transparency as possible when it comes to public procurement contracts, thereby allowing small competitors, small companies and new competitors to compete for those contracts and not be excluded, even if they offer the most competitive bid. maybe then we might have a public procurement market that has the trust of everyone.
in writing. − public procurement is a key factor in building and strengthening the welsh economy. i have therefore followed this debate in recent years and worked for an outcome which would make it fairer and easier for welsh companies to win welsh contracts. cutting red tape is also a major factor in procurement. while this report could have gone much further in terms of simplification, i voted in favour of it because it is a big improvement on the situation we have currently. in my constituency only half of public contracts are awarded to welsh companies. if that figure was increased to 75%, it could create almost 50 000 jobs. the new legislation should ensure that government and local authorities can no longer blame eu rules for failure to increase this percentage.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the rules governing public procurement are important across the whole of the eu. these new proposals would make the rules over selection more flexible, and vendors would not be limited to only selecting the cheapest option; other factors could now be taken into account.
in writing. − the package of three procurement directives represents a major reform of the eu’s public procurement system, with the potential to stimulate growth in the single market. this fundamental reform will first and foremost cut red tape by reducing the administrative burden for both participating companies and the public administration. this simplified and flexible reform package also integrates social considerations, such as improved employment and public health concerns. this package will undoubtedly be welcomed by my constituents in northern ireland, chiefly for the beneficial terms it offers to smes. making up a substantial portion of the local enterprises, smes will be able to compete more effectively for tenders. for instance, contracting authorities can limit the number of lots that one contractor can win, avoiding a situation where one contractor wins all the lots. as well as removing barriers to market access for smes, the reform package enhances the transparency of the procurement process, requiring winning bidders to submit full documentation, and also excludes bidders on the basis of poor performance. with the approval of this fundamental reform package, public procurement is no longer a case of accepting the lowest price, but provides better and more innovative solutions to local customers’ needs.
in writing. − the public procurement reforms which have been approved here today are a major achievement and a big step in the right direction for our single market. crucially these reforms will open up new possibilities for small businesses when it comes to bidding for public contracts throughout the eu – removing much of the red tape that has in the past held small businesses back. i strongly support the reform package and i therefore voted in favour of this agreement on the directive on public procurement.
in writing. − i supported this report, which aims to improve eu rules on public procurement by making them simpler and more flexible. public procurement is vital to the eu economy and under this new directive public authorities will have more freedom to use procurement in a way that benefits everyone. the directive will allow local authorities to set most economically advantageous tender criteria, rather than just lowest cost, which will allow them to consider social and environmental concerns when awarding contracts. other measures include allowing procurers to insist that collective bargaining agreements are respected; the possibility to exclude operators if they break environmental and labour laws and tougher sanctions for those who fail to comply. mandatory rules on transparency in the subcontracting chain will help ensure it is clear where responsibility lies and help prevent abuse. i opposed the uk governmentʼs position on reserving some contracts for mutuals as their definition of a mutual organisation was very vague and could clear the way for privatisation by the back door. however, overall this is a good directive that will make it easier for governments and public authorities to use public procurement in a way that helps achieve common societal goals.
mr president, when you look at the sectors covered in this report – the water, energy, transport and postal sectors – they are some of the largest utilities and some of the largest companies actually awarding public procurement contracts. it is important therefore that when they do that, the procedure is simplified as much as possible, in order to allow in new competitors but especially small companies. one of the complaints that i get from small companies in my constituency of london when they are applying for these contracts is that the volume of paperwork and the administrative burden in applying for these contracts actually rules them out because, unlike some of their larger competitors, they cannot afford the time or a member of staff. if we can do that, and at the same time make sure that these large utilities do not take advantage of their size vis-à-vis small suppliers – such as when they deliberately delay bill payment, sometimes pushing small businesses out of business – then, hopefully, once again we will have a more competitive public procurement market and we will give more opportunities to small businesses right across the eu.
in writing. − i voted for the tarabella report on procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. i strongly support the reform package as it includes new measures to simplify procedures, cut red tape, support smes and promote value for money. it will also enhance the functioning of the single market, promote reform and accountability, and provide greater legal clarity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which simplifies the current rules on public procurement. this is of central importance to the economy. in my constituency, wales, only half of public contracts are awarded to welsh companies. if that figure was increased to 75%, it could create almost 50 000 jobs.
in writing. − public procurement represents a significant proportion of spending throughout europe. the reform package agreed here today will simplify procedures and help to unlock the potential that public-authority spending has to deliver growth to our economies. i strongly support the reform package and i therefore voted in favour of this agreement on the directive on procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal-services sectors.
mr president, on public procurement, i am favourable to certain aspects beyond just the price being taken into consideration, such as environmental issues, issues to do with the quality of the services, and also perhaps the need for mandatory e-government or e-procurement. but it is difficult to balance the founding principles of open markets with a proposal which would allow the european union and the member states to block companies from third countries, such as the united states and japan, from bidding for public procurement contracts. public procurement accounts for approximately 20 % of eu gdp, with over gbp 230 billion spent yearly in the united kingdom. whilst i accept the case that third countries, unfortunately, do not always offer reciprocal arrangements – and we hope that that will change, with the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) with american or the eu-japan free trade agreement – in terms of access to public procurement tendering, retreating to an inflexible and protectionist position does not seem the ideal solution. but of course, lack of reciprocity should still be possible as an issue to be taken into consideration in awarding a public contract. that is why i voted in favour of the amendments that would see these restrictive elements removed from this report.
mr president, one way to help hardworking people is to reduce their taxes. one of the best ways to reduce their taxes is to reduce the cost of the state. one of the best ways to reduce the cost of the state is to open up public procurement markets as widely as possible. however, i understand the concerns here that we also need to ensure that markets overseas are also open for companies from many eu countries. however strongly we may feel about this feeling of reciprocity, it is important that it is not the eu but individual member states which have the power to decide whether to exclude companies from other countries within the framework of the rule of law. this proposal to allow the eu to make that decision is nothing short of protectionism. those of us in favour of open markets, and those of us in favour of free trade and investment, should oppose it.
in writing. − i voted against the caspary report on access of third-country goods and services to the unionʼs internal market in public procurement and procedures supporting negotiations on access of union goods and services to the public procurement markets of third countries. my vote was against the proposed regulation because it could lead to a net reduction in market access and could diminish growth potential at a time when it is needed most. this is the position of a majority of the member states in the council. there are significant risks in deploying the proposed instrument as a leveraging tool in trade negotiations as it could leave the eu open to damaging retaliatory measures, losing out on growth opportunities, particularly in emerging markets.
in writing. − as an mep for northern ireland, i recognise the significant economic potential that underlies increased exports and opening up new markets for products and services developed in the eu. i also believe, however, that restricting market access to third countries that are unwilling to enter eu trade negotiations would have inherent risks – and potentially bring adverse results for our economy. preventing these countries from entering eu procurement markets may encourage retaliatory action, jeopardising the opportunities that do exist in these economies for eu companies seeking to exploit particularly emerging markets in the future. in light of much of the beneficial provision included in the public procurement package that has also been debated in parliament this week, i feel that the interests of businesses across my constituency would be best served by keeping the eu public procurement market open and competitive. i am also mindful that there are alternatives to this proposal, including dispute settlement mechanisms and bilateral trade agreements. existing member states should also be encouraged to open up access to remaining markets, and i would urge parliament to support this approach as a matter of priority, rather than to potentially reduce market access in this way.
in writing. − i voted against this report. it could provide the eu with a means to restrict access to eu public procurement for goods and services from third countries. the purpose is to give the eu more power to negotiate access to third countriesʼ procurement. i do not believe that this is in walesʼs interests.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which contains proposals to address the issue of international public procurement markets and non-reciprocal treatment of the eu. the commission is concerned that eu suppliers are facing restrictive access to foreign public procurement markets while the eu remains largely an open market. this is an important issue because it is vital that in trade deals we have the best deal for consumers on all services.
in writing. − the proposal considered here today, which would allow for the eu and member states to close procurement markets to firms from third countries subject to various decision processes, carries significant risks and could leave the eu open to damaging retaliatory measures. at a time when capitalising on opportunities for growth, particularly in emerging markets, is more important than ever, i believe that this proposal would lead instead to a net reduction in market access and a lessening of the eu member states’ growth potential. for those reasons i cannot support this commission proposal and i am disappointed at the outcome of today’s vote.
mr president, it should be clear to everyone that honey is produced by bees and contains pollen as a result of what bees have always done throughout history; that the presence of pollen is as natural as anything else in honey; and that it should not have to be considered as an additive which needs labelling. whether or not the pollen comes from gm crops is irrelevant, as the percentage will always be below the threshold at which a gm declaration would be necessary. opposition to gm organisms is a legitimate political stance, but it is not acceptable to sacrifice our beekeepers – already struggling with the collapse of bee colonies throughout the european union – by potentially forcing them to label the gm status of their honey on entirely spurious grounds, just for the sake of driving through a particular anti-gmo political agenda. i was therefore delighted that julie girling’s amendment, calling for some basic common sense in this debate, was carried.
mr president, pollen occurs naturally in honey: ‘for so work the honey-bees… that by a rule in nature teach the act of order to a peopled kingdom’ (shakespeare, henry v, act 1, scene 2). i have observed before that our national poet has apt words for every situation, including this directive. it is extraordinary to have a coalition of eco-loons and anti-market fanatics now denying not only the laws of the market but the laws of nature in their attempt to define pollen as an additive to honey. it is a rather neat metaphor for the way in which bureaucracies in general and eu officials in particular predate upon the private sector. ‘injurious wasps, to feed on such sweet honey / and kill the bees that yield it with your stings!’ (shakespeare. two gentlemen of verona, act 1, scene 2).
mr president, in 2009, following the discovery of pollen from gm maize, the european court of justice (ecj) ruled that pollen was an ingredient of honey. if you ask beekeepers or honey producers, they will say that is absolute madness. they deliberately try to make honey as pure as possible, but sometimes pollen is unavoidably found in honey. fortunately today we have managed to throw this eco-lunacy out. for that we have to praise the british conservative, julie girling, for leading a fantastic report. the ecj and some of those eco-loons may think it is an ingredient, but beekeepers, bee producers and the majority of common-sense meps will tell you that it is not, and we voted for that.
in writing. − i voted for the girling report on amending council directive 2001/110/ec relating to honey because it incorporated the commissionʼs original position that pollen is not an ingredient in honey. to say otherwise is nonsensical, besides being another added cost for businesses.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amended resolution on honey today. it was crucial that pollen was not defined as an ingredient: it is a natural constituent of honey and i am glad that parliament considers it as such.
in writing. − today, labour meps voted in favour of amendments which sought to give consumers the right to know whether the honey they are buying is made from bees feeding on gm crops. we recognise that this is a complex issue, balancing consumer rights and practical issues for bee keepers. that is why we agree with beekeepers that there should be no automatic ingredients list on honey. only honey produced near to gm crops would have to be labelled. we also supported a specific amendment to clarify that where buffer zones exist between gm crops and hives, as they do voluntarily in the uk, there is no need to carry out any additional tests on the honey or change labels in any way. despite the fact that some of the amendments mentioned above were rejected, we nevertheless supported the final report in the interest of allowing further discussion on this complex issue to take place between ministers, meps and the commission.
in writing. − the rapporteur’s draft report rightly recognised that pollen is not an ingredient of honey, but rather a constituent. the clarification of this point within eu rules is vital for eu honey producers and related businesses, including small and medium-sized enterprises. failure to achieve this would have enormous cost implications for honey producers and could completely undermine consumer perception of honey as a natural product. therefore i am very pleased that attempts to get pollen officially designated as an ingredient of honey have been defeated in today’s vote.
in writing. − i voted for the macovei report on the hercule iii programme to promote activities in the field of the protection of the european unionʼs financial interests because the new programme continues to place specific emphasis on the fight against cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting, which are estimated to cost member states eur 11 billion per annum. the programme reflects the commissionʼs legal obligations stemming from agreements with four international tobacco manufacturers. even though questions do remain regarding the effectiveness of such programmes, in this case efforts must be made to manage the administrative costs of the programme.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the euʼs financial interests as this is also in walesʼs interests.
in writing. − the hercule iii programme has been initiated by the commission with the laudable intention of protecting the eu's financial interests against fraud and smuggling, in particular the fight against cigarette smuggling. in my own constituency of northern ireland, we are all too aware of criminal gangs profiting from smuggling cigarettes over the border. the practice not only damages legitimate trade, but has historically been a means of funding terrorist activity. any eu assistance in preventing these activities is therefore to be welcomed. the hercule iii programme is scheduled to run from 2014-2020 and co-finances member state activities including technical assistance and the purchase of equipment at a rate of 80% (in some exceptional instances 90%) to combat this crime. i have some concerns over the european court of auditors findings in 2012 regarding previous hercules i and ii programmes, which said that performance indicators needed to be improved, calling for an independent evaluation of its added value. hopefully these recommendations will be taken on board in hercules iii, and we can begin to further impede the smuggling and fraudulent activities of criminal gangs that have intimidated many in northern ireland and across europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which will see the introduction of hercule iii (the successor to hercule ii) and the eu’s programme for 2014-2020, focusing on the promotion of activities to protect the union’s financial interests against fraud and, in particular, the fight against cigarette smuggling.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to us in wales that the transfer of data on trade between member states is free and safe. this is a technical report implementing the lisbon treaty in this field, nevertheless it is to be welcomed as a measure that will help us to get a full picture of trade.
mr president, i welcome increased scrutiny in the policing of intra-european union trade between member states. with the vast majority of illicit trade entering my country, the uk, via maritime freight, i am pleased to note that the hercule iii plan provides scope for greater cooperation between member states and third parties to tackle cigarette smuggling, for instance, as reportedly just under half of the tobacco being sold in my country is illicit. to add to this, the majority of non-uk duty-paid cigarettes in london are directly sourced from other eu member states, representing an average revenue loss to the united kingdom of gbp 2 billion a year. i therefore welcome these much-needed reforms to improve cross-border operations and combat smuggling and fiscal fraud. this should be part of our overarching aim of protecting the uk government’s revenues at a time of fiscal austerity.
in writing. − this resolution addresses the very important issue of wildlife crime, a global problem which will require a tough approach if we are to bring illegal practices to a halt. i welcome the resolution’s call for stricter and more urgent action by the authorities to curb wildlife crime and prevent poaching. i voted in favour of this resolution today.
in writing. − i supported this resolution, which calls for the eu to take more action to combat wildlife crime. the trade in illegal wildlife products is now worth usd 19 billion a year and, as well as damaging biodiversity through the loss of already endangered species, represents a threat to security and the rule of law in many countries as there is evidence that it is linked to organised crime, the funding of armed militias and terrorism. organised crime travels across borders, making this a global problem that requires coordinated action at both eu and international level. the resolution calls for measures to ensure that law enforcement forces have the knowledge and resources to combat this growing crime and for tougher sanctions for those involved so as to ensure that penalties really do act as a deterrent. with the eu one of the foremost destinations for illegal wildlife products, we also need to take steps to reduce demand through targeted awareness-raising campaigns.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, today is an opportunity – an opportunity to have a serious, moderate and sensible discussion on the future of freedom of movement in the eu. freedom of movement has brought economic growth and cultural diversity and has helped europe meet the modern challenges of changing labour demands and global markets. the uk in particular has benefited through modern history from this form of two-way migration: through our commonwealth, through the thousands of brave and hardworking polish citizens who helped rebuild my country after the war, after fighting alongside us for freedom and democracy, through other european migration and also through the three million british citizens who benefit every day from living, working and retiring across the european union. but like any system which is nearly 30 years old, there needs to be a moment when we can look at how we need to adapt, reform and sometimes even strengthen it in order to ensure its future success and survival. but this should not translate into an attempt to destroy freedom of movement and discriminate against individual member states. hot tempers, blame, finger-pointing and the political point-scoring which has been taking place is not something that helps to restore confidence; it does not help us to find the best way forward. i would like to say to mr swoboda: please get your facts right. when you refer to my prime minister, please also remember that the leader of the labour party in the uk has said exactly the same things in relation to these matters as my leader has. that tone, mr swoboda, is a disservice to this parliament and to all the people of europe. i could fill my speech pointing blame at senior politicians from all countries, indeed in all political groups, but we need a more constructive debate. with such rhetoric we play into the hands of those individuals – and the media – who want to call this parliament and the eu irrational and out of touch. the people of europe look for leadership. reform and clarification: yes. but the tone of today’s discussion must remain moderate, sensible and positive. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – does mr kirkhope agree with me in the light of his remarks that it is outrageous that tory party leaders in the uk are suppressing a report on eu free movement because they do not like the positive evidence that it apparently contains? will he join with me in calling for an honest debate, not one built on myths, and one that acknowledges that eu migrants in the uk pay one third more in tax than they receive in benefits and are much less likely to claim welfare than british people? by the way, i do agree with him that labour party leaders are also at fault in the uk, and i hope to blue-card ms willmott later.
blue-card answer. – baroness ludford has been around long enough in politics to know about me and my reluctance to see anything suppressed that adds a positive contribution to a debate of this kind. we need the positive approach and we need to be factual, calm and sensible, and no one could show more of that than baroness ludford herself.
mr president, i am very pleased that we have been talking about many of the rules this afternoon, because i think that, for a number of us in our member states, the way in which this debate is conducted is as if there are no rules and no regulations. people turn up, and from day one – hallelujah! – the money is showered upon you and you do not have to anything for it. this is a total load of lies and an absolute misrepresentation, but of course it suits some to have a fact-free zone, because facts can be very uncomfortable. yes, there is evidence that there are problems. looking at the citizenship reports from the european union that the commission has produced, we know that there is a lack of information for people when they move about how things work, what their entitlements are and how they actually fit into systems. we know there is a lack of information about rights, such as rights at work. these are the sort of things that allow the exploitation of people. this is why we discussed labour inspection this week, partly as a direct response to some of the issues that have arisen through people moving within the european union. we should deal with those difficulties, and we should also deal with the gaps that there are in protection. but the principle is clear. if you move, there is equal treatment with the nationals of the state that you are in. this means that if you are contributing, you have entitlements. and i am really concerned about some of the actions calling into question the entitlements of people who have contributed to a system, so that they are actually going to get nothing for something – the opposite of what is often said.
mr president, this morning president barroso restated the european union’s commitment to open borders as a fundamental principle. a sensible immigration policy in britain would allow entry only to those people we might actually want: people with the skills to fill jobs that genuinely cannot be filled by our own unemployed; people who have a legitimate right to marry british citizens; people who are hardworking and law abiding. instead, what has the eu given us? we also get criminals, drug addicts, alcoholics, beggars, vagrants and benefit-seekers. decent british people see their living standards being driven down, while benefits and social housing are given to people who have never paid a penny in tax in the uk. that is what the eu has delivered for us, and next may the voters of britain will deliver their verdicts on you, fellow members, when they vote for the uk independence party in massive numbers.
mr president, free movement is one of our most cherished achievements, but the recent debate has taken a serious turn for the worse, especially back home in the uk, where we see conservative and labour politicians dancing to the ukip tune, using rhetoric which portrays eu migrants as scroungers. the liberal democrats must set the record straight and defend the benefits of free movement, which is a two-way street. it allows brits to retire to spain and thousands of young people to seek jobs all across the european union. of course, this does not mean freedom to access benefits without responsibilities. the uk government is already taking some legitimate action to prevent loopholes in this respect, but we need to separate spin from substance. we need a sensible, evidence-led debate on free movement. evidence shows that eu migration has brought huge benefits, particularly to the uk treasury and to the national health service, which is propped up by highly-skilled migrants. we do need to listen to citizens’ concerns about pressure on public services and integration, but let us not pander to ukip and the xenophobic right-wing press by fuelling inaccurate sterotypes. we owe it to the younger generation to defend the right of free movement and the countless opportunities it brings. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – would mr bennion agree with me that we should stop this defamation of hard-working migrants across europe, and could he also give me the evidence and quote where the labour party has purportedly said that eu migrants who are hard-working and come to the united kingdom are scroungers? i am a member of the labour party. i have never heard this, but perhaps somewhere he listens to voices outside his head that nobody else can hear.
blue-card answer. – in this respect i was talking about the rhetoric we are seeing from uk politicians in the westminster parliament, and i was grouping together politicians there, particularly when they are looking at extending the period which must elapse before people can claim benefits, in other words saying that they cannot claim them for two years. this rather insinuates that they are coming over to claim benefits. i certainly do not make any criticisms of labour and conservative politicians in this house, where i think we have had a rational debate.
mr president, this is a really important, although emotive, debate. it is not helped by the constant scaremongering we hear from some of the other uk parties. we need to have a sensible discussion and to recognise the concerns that many people have, not just in the uk but also in many other countries, including germany and france. people on the doorstep constantly tell me that it is not the issue of migration itself that concerns them: it is more the fear that they will lose their job because someone from elsewhere will be willing to do it for less. they know that migration has brought huge economic benefits to our country, but this does nothing to allay their fears. you may or may not agree with their fears, but we cannot ignore them. what should we do? firstly, we should ensure that any domestic minimum wage legislation is properly enforced. secondly, we need to strengthen the agency workers directive, which is often used to undercut workers’ terms and conditions and to exploit migrant workers. thirdly, once and for all, we must close the loophole in the posting of workers directive. i know that some rogue employers would not be happy with these changes because, quite frankly, they prefer to continue to hire cheap labour and treat workers as just another commodity. i have to tell them that this is not acceptable. we must stop, once and for all, this constant race to the bottom; instead we should be aiming for a race to the top. freedom of movement is a fundamental principle of the eu. we need to ensure that another fundamental principle we work for is fairness for all.
mr president, i will address mr kalfin: you say that none of mr farage’s supporters are here. i am here. you say that we are not concerned with facts. let me give you a fact. last time we opened our borders to new member states, our government promised us that the expected number would be 13 000. in fact we had half a million. we are desperately building new houses in my country, many of them in the countryside and on the greenbelt. half of the new houses are going to immigrants. those are the facts. we base our argument on facts. you should recognise that.
blue-card question. – mr farage recently said that bulgarians and romanians were responsible for a lot of crime in london. would you agree that in fact it is not ordinary bulgarians and romanians but a particular significant minority in both of those countries who were described by president schulz in 2010 as a ‘difficult minority’?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, following on from that speech, i have to say that, if there is a symbolic and practical aspect of the parliament inquiry into mass surveillance that is appropriate for this week in strasbourg, it must be safe harbour, because it affects eu citizens and their data and it affects the commercial and business aspects. that has become both a practical factor and a symbol of the problem that we have with eu data transfers and the problem that we have with trust between the european union and the united states, and it has become symbolic of what we have to fix. safe harbour has in many respects become the symbol of what we have in this inquiry and the task that we have. so, in the european parliament inquiry and my draft report drawn up with the help of the shadow rapporteurs, who are sitting here, and the working document from axel voss, all the hard work that has been performed over the last few months has led to the recommendation to suspend the safe harbour decision to allow for the transfer of eu citizens’ data and to ensure that we have another mechanism which reflects our higher standard of privacy and data protection in the eu. the idea that you have – i think mr weber put it very well – a first-class and second-class standard for citizens or for businesses is unacceptable. so what are we saying about safe harbour that is so symbolic and practical? first, we talk about the weaknesses and the lack of information available. we have seen in the inquiry clear evidence of non-compliant companies continuing to remain on the federal trade commission (ftc) website as being compliant, lack of enforcement procedures from the ftc, as well as no adequate complaint mechanisms in place to ensure redress for eu citizens and accountability of companies. that is the evidence that we have seen. data collected from eu citizens is being transferred to the us with extremely weak safeguards in place and in the knowledge that the us has lower data protection standards that exist here in the eu. safe harbour, as it stands, does not offer eu citizens any protection against data access requests by the nsa under the foreign intelligence surveillance act (fisa) or the patriot act in the us, and we have to ask the commission to consider the vast electronic surveillance carried out by the us as a breach of the present wording of safe harbour and limitations for national security. while the commission has already recognised the serious inadequacies in relation to safe harbour, their 13 recommendations to the ftc in the us may not be enough. this procedure may lack any real enforceability, as it is void of any real obligations on the us to take these seriously. so in these last few seconds i would say to the commission: you and we are speaking with one voice to washington, but we must treat safe harbour as that symbolic and practical aspect of our inquiry that needs to be fixed with the united states in order to recreate trust with the united states and to ensure that our inquiry has real meaning in rebuilding the regulation of protection as something meaningful between us and the united states.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the development of the western balkans has been so rapid that it is occasionally worth reminding ourselves just how far this region has come. just 15 years ago the region was being torn apart by brutal civil wars which saw thousands of people killed or displaced, but now croatia and slovenia are in the european union and we are talking about the accession of serbia and montenegro to the eu as a serious and realistic prospect, thus testifying to the superlative efforts of both the governments and populations of those countries, as well as to european and regional partners, in their efforts to promote economic development and integration. despite the immensely positive outlook in serbia and montenegro in particular, it is important for us not to get carried away by being over-optimistic. an examination of the progress reports reveals a mixed bag. while, as parliament’s rapporteur, i congratulate montenegro’s steady progress into the european union club – and it is indeed now even negotiating chapters – the chronic and systemic problems of statehood and intercommunal relations in bosnia-herzegovina, for example, remind us of the many years of hard work that remain in this still fragile region. kosovo does give grounds for some optimism, with real progress made in the social and political arenas but, as november’s electoral violence in mitrovica demonstrated, baroness ashton’s belgrade-priština agreement, though it is rightly to be congratulated, must embody the start of a process and not the end of one. certainly one country which deserves continued congratulations is macedonia, although, as ever, the progress report reflects the deep frustrations about the entirely unnecessary paralysis forced upon this country’s european ambitions. macedonia has come so far and does not deserve to be left behind. the so-called name issue is unsustainable and unfair, and i appeal to all sides to renew the momentum for ending the saga once and for all. in all the western balkan countries we call for similar things, such as stronger targeting of corruption and fighting organised crime, deeper engagement with civil society, and broader rights for minorities and women and the lgbt communities. while these countries continue to progress and reform, we must do all that we can to help realise their citizens’ justifiable european aspirations.
sir winston churchill used to insist that the best speeches made one point.
i have received one motion for a resolution, 2 see minutes tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) to wind up the debate on serbia and one motion for a resolution4 to wind up the debate on kosovo. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 january 2014. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the 2012 progress report on iceland and post-election perspectives (2013/2932(rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, it is scarcely believable that, only a month ago, so many of us here stood up to welcome the progress made by south sudan since independence – a cause which i had championed for many years – and offer our encouragement for further developments and reforms to that young democracy. in the space of just a few short weeks, south sudan has been brought to the brink by a combination of bitter political rivalries, anti-government discontent regarding the sharing of the oil revenues and, increasingly – and most worryingly of all – inter-ethnic tensions. astonishingly, what apparently began as a personal conflict or feud between salva kiir and riek machar has now claimed the lives of 10 000 people, with over 400 000 people displaced. this week’s tragic ferry accident, in which a further 200 people drowned, demonstrates the desperation of so many south sudanese citizens and the extreme lengths to which they will go in order to escape from it. given that the embryonic nationhood of south sudan as a state has always been rather fragile, and given the lack of institutions, it remains unclear how much pressure and bloodshed it can withstand without enduring a full-scale collapse and becoming a failed state. needless to say, the consequences of this would be catastrophic for its people, as well as extremely dangerous and destabilising for the entire region of the horn of africa. therefore, the european union, many of whose member states have worked hard to support south sudan, must do everything now possible to support the urgent ceasefire talks. to this end, i welcome the work done by the excellent eu special representative for the horn of africa, alex rondos, and his support for igad (the intergovernmental authority on development), the african union and the un mission in sudan. he is doing all he can to help these organisations. we must also deploy all available tools to support the refugees, both technically and financially, in terms of aid. certainly, if the talks fail and this develops into an all-out ethnic civil war, the european union must consider all its options – even possible military support to the au and igad, alongside full-scale humanitarian relief. i welcome the initiative from the african union to set up an inquiry into the terrible human rights abuses last december. last month i discussed one of south sudan’s key commodities: hope for the future. that must still hold true now, but it depends on the courage and statesmanship of the countries’ leaders. south sudan cannot endure a bloody civil war again. for the sake of its citizens, we must do all we can now to stop it.
madam president, as a member of the chilean delegation i visited chile last year. i am quite happy with the free trade agreement we have with chile, and i agree that chile has proved itself to be a strong and reliable trade partner. great strides forward have been made in chile with respect to human rights. it is now a fully functioning democracy and has put aside all its past troubles, but i think we must be very strong with the human rights element throughout latin america. i attend lots of talks where people ask me about free trade agreements, as they wonder what exactly they are and i have to tell them. they ask if the united kingdom would not have a free trade agreement if it left the european union. that is a good question, because here we are with a free trade agreement with countries on the other side of the world, yet the threat to the people that i represent is that if you leave the eu you would not have a free trade agreement. i think it is probably relevant that i make the point here in the chamber at some point, so i have done so tonight.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, homelessness and hopelessness lead to criminality in all too many cases, or at least to a social entrapment in which generation after generation is trapped in poverty. it threatens to become the scourge of the age. there are many causes, but one of the keys is surely employment, and one of the answers to that is surely education. i regret to say that my own government is guilty of neglect. in 1945 they introduced a scheme whereby those with academic ability could attend grammar schools, which had previously been the province of the wealthy. that offered a better way out, breaking the circle. it was the greatest social mobility scheme ever. it even benefited me, but later governments abolished it. we need an education system in europe which caters for all abilities. we need academic schools, technical schools, commercial schools, sports academies, drama schools, universities and colleges of further education. we need industrialists to take on apprentices and send them to university at their expense, and we need those industrialists to invest in the poorer countries of europe to help raise their standard. i do not believe in the mass migration of people across europe promoted by this eu. we need settled communities, not footloose ones; we need people trained in a range of skills and for them, for the most part, to remain in their homelands to develop prosperity there, raising their standard of living and banishing homelessness through their own efforts. finally, madam president, allow me to point out that i come from country which was recently and disgracefully described by this commissioner as a nasty country, and my final comment is: i do not wish to see poor countries in europe.
madam president, it is extremely difficult to get decent statistics on the number of people who are homeless across the european union. yes, city councils do street-counts of those who are sleeping rough, but it is a wider problem. we have people who are simply living on friends’ sofas or with relatives, as well as people who are in temporary accommodation that is inappropriate. what we do know, however, is that the number has increased as a result of the economic crisis. as mr clark said, the problem is very strongly related to unemployment, and losing one’s job can mean losing one’s home. being homeless renders it practically impossible for these people to participate in everyday life, either by entering or re-entering the labour market, or by having a proper family life. this resolution recognises the fact that dealing with homelessness is up to the member states. as it stands at the moment, it does not violate the subsidiarity principle. however, i strongly oppose several amendments which do not respect subsidiarity, particularly in the area of tenancy law. homelessness is a local issue, but we can bring together the experiences of all 28 member states to work to combat it. we should ensure, for instance, that eu funds, such as the european social fund, can be used for programmes in this area. in my constituency, a number of local authorities use these funds very well in support services for the homeless. we would also be well-advised to do some research work on the link between free movement and homelessness, and we should work together to gather data on this and the other facts relating to this issue.
madam president, the cause of homelessness, which is unmentionable by the silent conspiracy of liberal consensus, is immigration and asylum. every person or family entering a country adds to the demand for housing by one. if there are homeless among the indigenous population, a house provided for a new arrival is a house denied to an existing resident. the decision-takers – meps, mps, local councillors – are not among the homeless. indeed, most of them cannot count any homeless among their circle of acquaintances. to them, the homeless are just statistics and not real people. decision-takers feel terribly generous for granting a home to a newcomer, but funnily enough they do not feel mean for denying one to an existing resident. we heard this morning from ukip that it was opposed to mass immigration. however, its leader said recently ‘we want immigration, we welcome immigration’. in 2010, he said that the uk needed 250 000 every year.
madam president, the clock is not actually working in accordance with your timer, so it makes it very difficult for us to conform with the time limitations which have been given to us.
madam president, this is a procedural point of order. president schulz and, i believe, the conference of presidents have made it clear that if you are on a speaking list, you cannot have a blue card. ms in’t veld was on the speaking list, and she has been given a blue card. can you please explain this?
madam president, since the estrela report was voted on in the european parliament, i have received more correspondence from constituents on this report than almost any other. it is of course a vital policy area that affects us all as individuals and as a society. it is also an area in which certain groups may be particularly vulnerable. this includes those in developing nations, the economically-disadvantaged and the poorly-informed or educated, and those women who live in societies in which women are treated unequally or even regarded simply as property. through my work on the european parliament’s subcommittee on human rights, i have witnessed such situations at first hand. there are important debates to be had: access to contraception, sexual health, education and healthcare, and abortion are just some of the issues. it will also come as a surprise to learn that in several countries in the eu the age of consent is as low as fourteen. these debates must include all actors in society – not just politicians, but also healthcare professionals, teachers, parents and, given the moral implications, the church. the church should not be made an enemy. the estrela report, however, appears to be dominated by a political agenda and in my opinion is unacceptable. that is why i could not support it, as i believe this to be a national competence.
madam president, this is the first point of order: when an mep asks for a procedural point of order, the president must give way. i think this is in the rules of procedure, and you failed to do that. i am actually calling for you to suspend this debate and put in place a chair who can competently take this debate. this has been absolute chaos. your absolute bigoted bias in this debate has been absolutely disgraceful. please vacate the chair and put someone else more competent in.
madam president, i have listened to the views of the other side of the house, and i respect their views, but i do not endorse them. i believe that the draft spanish law discriminates against women, and the argument of subsidiarity holds no weight. we express our views on foreign affairs, so why not abolish the committee on foreign affairs if we are going to follow through on the argument of subsidiarity? the eu mandates the european union to defend human rights. let us be absolutely clear: the spanish draft law affects us all. if women are denied their basic rights in an eu member state, such as spain, it affects not only those women who live there but also other women citizens of that member state or any women who work, reside, study or even go there as tourists. therefore i say this: i stand by the generation of women who have fought for their right for equality, their right to choose what to do with their bodies and for their continuing fight. the denial of the rights of women is a competence of this house. (applause)
in writing. – women in spain deserve the full support of parliament to oppose the appalling anti-abortion legislation being proposed by the right-wing government in their country. control over their bodies is a fundamental right for women. women should have access to safe abortion. we are only talking about access – no-one is forcing women to have abortions or doctors to perform them, contrary to the propaganda put forward by the ecr group and others. few women undergo abortion with a light heart – it is generally a difficult and heart-rending decision. taken together with the fact that there is always a time limit after which abortion is illegal, these two aspects of the abortion question provide protection for the unborn foetus as well as the living woman. access to abortion is essential to protect the health of all women in the european union. health has long been regarded as a competence and abortion definitely comes under this category. health is recognised as a cross-border matter. those female eu citizens living in spain should have access to abortion and all aspects of reproductive health. fundamental rights in the eu, including the right to health, do not stop at national borders.
mr president, the title of this report – reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability – reflects the concerns felt by many commentators across europe, that the financial crisis of 2008 and the subsequent euro crisis have had disastrous consequences in the union, highlighting in the process the competitiveness weakness that is so pertinent in the face of emerging economies such as china. a revitalised industrial sector, built on the foundations of a skilled work force and flexible employment laws and underpinned by a strong research and development base, is what europe needs for the future to maintain its competitive edge. i was therefore disappointed to see the report calling for tax harmonisation, a move which is not only beyond the competence of the eu but, more worryingly, is endemic to the fraudulent calls for ‘more europe’ in order to ensure that a competitive crisis is ended in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a good report on the best strategy for making europe a competitive region and ensuring our industry is sustainable. it aims to ease the access of european enterprises to finance and capital markets, which complements the need and desire of member states to create jobs.
in writing. − a strong and competitive european industrial sector is absolutely vital for all member states, and a full recovery from the economic crisis of recent years will not be sustained without it. realising our innovation potential is one of the key means by which we can strengthen our industrial base, and i welcome the strong focus on that goal in this report. however, i have serious concerns about the report’s calls for tax harmonisation, and i am afraid that, on those grounds, i could not support it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which confirms parliament’s approval of ms sabine lautenschläger’s appointment as a member of the executive board of the european central bank.
in writing. − today i voted against the report which authorises france to apply a reduced rate for certain indirect taxes on ‘traditionalʼ rum produced in some of its overseas territories. i believe that this legislation distorts the principle of the single market and gives an unfair advantage to these products over, for example, scotch whisky imports to france.
in writing. − i voted against these proposals because i believe the french tax break is discriminatory. firstly, against other rum producers and in particular rum from the caribbean region. most rum-producing caribbean nations are developing countries and are being put at a further disadvantage. as rapporteur for the cariforum economic partnership agreement and chair of the cariforum delegation i could not support the french position. secondly, the tax break discriminates against other spirits, including scotch whisky which also has to compete with tax-reduced fod rum in the french market.
in writing. − i voted against the renewal of france’s ability to apply a reduced rate of indirect taxes on rum from france’s overseas departments (fod) for a number of reasons. firstly, i am concerned by how standard parliamentary procedure has been circumvented for this report. the committee on regional development was not given adequate time to scrutinise the proposals, with insufficient time to submit amendments. secondly, the proposals could allow france to apply a lower rate of health tax on rum from fod, which given health concerns linked to excessive consumption of alcohol would appear to undermine the eu’s own health strategies. thirdly, the proposals distort the market by allowing rum from fod a tax break worth around eur 1 billion over a seven year period. the commission’s economic assessment places the cost of the ‘ultra-peripheral’ dimension to fod at around eur 340 per hectolitre, with the proposed tax break nearly trebling this to eur 945 per hectolitre. overall, the proposals represent an excessive economic benefit to an already successful sector, unfairly distorting the marketplace and disadvantaging local producers like bushmills irish whiskey of county antrim in my constituency, who are reliant on an even playing field to remain competitive.
in writing. − this treaty provision (being considered here in the context of a proposal to extend the conditions which authorise france to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to ‘traditional’ rum produced in its overseas departments and sold on the french mainland) grants an unfair advantage to the three member states concerned, even though all member states have their own peripheral regions and yet cannot benefit from such exemptions. for this reason, i could not support this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this amendment which makes the rules of procedure on the waiver and the defence of parliamentary immunity much clearer and more complete. it is vital that we have clear rules on parliamentary immunity so as to avoid any legal misunderstandings. it is also important for my constituents in wales, as it is for all the eu electorate, that the rules on parliamentary immunity are clear-cut and transparent.
in writing. − i supported this report which i feel has served as a useful opportunity to clarify and update parliament’s rules on the immunity afforded to members.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report that calls on eu governments to reject the european commission’s proposal to authorise cultivation of a variety of gm maize. i have long campaigned against gmos and i am pleased to say that wales is gm-free. i was very pleased that parliament passed this resolution which sends a very clear message to the european commission and council.
in writing. − i do not believe that there are compelling reasons to justify opposing the council decision to authorise the commercial planting, throughout the eu, of a type of gm insect-resistant maize called ‘1507’. the eu risk assessment process for gm crops and foods is one of the strictest in the world. i have confidence in the robustness of the eu’s risk assessment processes and therefore believe that we should be able to provide fair and predictable market access for those products which have been approved. as someone with a background in science and who believes strongly in the necessity of science-based decision making on gm crops and foods, i could not vote in favour of this resolution.
mr president, the right to freedom of movement to seek work is a founding principle of the eu and one that is important to the workings of the single market. we must acknowledge, however, that the eu has changed since its foundation and that the gdp per capita differences that now exist between the member states have brought problems that were not anticipated years ago. benefit tourism is one example of this, and it is a real issue in member states such as my own, the united kingdom, which operates its social security system on a largely non-contributory basis. this becomes especially galling when added to the fact that many eu migrant workers are using the posting of workers directive to avoid paying higher taxes in their host country, while still using its public services – a number which astonishingly totalled 1.2 million in 2011 throughout the union. these are issues which the majority of eu citizens find unacceptable. the eu must work to find a compromise that accepts that the differing levels of social welfare, income inequalities and tax regimes that the eu member states operate must be taken into consideration. not doing so will only increase the calls for a migrant quota system to be introduced on a pan-european basis.
mr president, this report and the debate which attended it was filled with all the usual clichéd attacks on the british government and people: we are xenophobic, anti-communautaire, ungenerous and all the rest of it. after 15 years in this place, i barely notice that kind of tone anymore; it ‘passes by me as the idle wind, which i respect not’. but it is worth just putting on the record that my country has assimilated four million inward migrants over the last 20 years. that is a figure without any parallel anywhere in europe; the only country that comes close is germany. despite that, my constituents continue to recognise that a contribution can be made by people who come from elsewhere in the european union to work in the united kingdom. in exchange, they want a sense of roughly whom we are admitting and in roughly what numbers. they want to control those things. they want to distinguish between people who come to work and people who come to claim benefits. the first may be a founding principle of the european union, the second is a creature of judicial activism by eu institutions. it should be a basic principle that, before you start drawing from a welfare pot, you should have had to put something into it.
mr president, most people in my london constituency welcome immigrants who come to britain to work and to contribute. i say that as the child of immigrants who did so a number of years ago. however, as politicians, we have to listen to the very real concerns of our constituents and, when it comes to freedom of movement within the eu, there are two concerns that are often expressed. the first is about the sheer numbers, in terms of cultural cohesion and also of the impact on public services. the second issue is that of benefit tourism: the phenomenon of people coming with no intention of working, but simply because they get higher levels of benefits in the uk. as politicians, we have a duty to respond and listen to the concerns of constituents. viviane reding may call it populism – we call it democracy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which addresses the true facts about migration within the eu. migration benefits our economy and free movement is one of the strengths of the union. i know that workers from wales, especially young people, have derived great benefit from the ability to work in other european countries and have also benefited the economies of those countries. i condemn the negative and dangerous way in which the migration issue is used in the uk to create animosity and racism in the hope of winning votes. i am pleased that the majority of meps recognise the facts.
in writing. − mr president, i voted in favour of the joint motion on the fundamental right of free movement in the eu. free movement brings many benefits to the citizens of europe, not least the ability to work throughout the eu. labour mobility needs to be higher if we are to improve economic competitiveness. i recognise the need to ensure that this right is not abused in order to claim benefits, but i believe access to social security systems, as a member state competence, should be dealt with at member state level.
in writing. − one of the most important achievements of the european union has been the right to freedom of movement. today i voted for the resolution on respect for the fundamental right of free movement on the eu because i believe that the right to settle, look for work throughout the eu and travel freely within europe has greatly benefited the people of britain. i believe that we should be proud of these rights and do our best to protect them within the union. i also believe that, in order to keep these rights from being abused, we need to acknowledge the crucial role of trade unions in enforcing these basic rights and opposing the ‘race to the bottom’ in terms of wages and conditions. i believe that this will lead to a strengthening of both the quality of life of eu citizens and of our economy as a whole.
mr president, the decision of malta to introduce a market for selling citizenship is indeed problematic. the right of individual member states to confer citizenship and issue passports is, of course, their sovereign prerogative and is not something to do with the eu. nevertheless, there is a difficulty here when such action confers treaty rights upon the holder to draw social security and live in other member states. today’s joint resolution denounces the idea of citizenship being subject to a purely monetary transaction. such moral arguments are for the member states to grapple with. it is the practical implications that i am concerned with. with this in mind, i welcome the resolution’s call for the commission to issue guidelines regarding access to eu citizenship via national investor schemes, which normally, as in my country the uk, relate to only selling the right to residency. it is my view that some compromise needs to be reached as to what eu-wide freedoms individual member state governments can legitimately extend via such commercial citizenship schemes.
mr president, citizenship, as the etymology of the word implies, is the essence of civilisation. it is what mediates the reciprocal duties and rights of a national. that is why i and many other people were reluctant to extend the category of citizenship to a european level in the maastricht treaty, to remove the decision over the granting of citizenship from democratic, elected and accountable national politicians. we now see in this proposal the idea of selling it. there is an irony here, in that the maltese are the one nation who have given themselves an opt-out from the right of other eu citizens to settle in malta and at the same time are wanting to sell it. that is their decision, provided it does not impact on other people. how about this? i am very happy to let malta sell eu citizenship to whomever it wants, provided there is an equivalent and reciprocal right for my citizens in the united kingdom to renounce theirs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as the european union is founded on the basic principle of trust between member states. for one state to sell eu citizenships to 3rd countries is completely against this principle and my constituents in wales would support this call to assess citizenship schemes in the light and spirit of our shared eu values.
in writing. − this resolution focuses on the ‘saleʼ of visas and citizenship to non-eu nationals. as the commission has already confirmed, member states have full sovereignty over the granting of citizenship and it is right that these decisions regarding how, and whom, to give residency or citizenship to, remain with the member state. however, the number of permits issued under some of the property investment programmes which this report considers are increasing and information from national law enforcement bodies suggests that these arrangements are not always transparent or properly controlled. as a result, i do appreciate the concerns that have been raised regarding the impact these procedures may have on access to the whole of the schengen area. nevertheless, in light of the fact that the granting of citizenship is a matter for member states and bearing in mind that the uk is not a member of the schengen area, i opted on this occasion to abstain in the vote on the final text.
in writing. − after recent debates in malta regarding ‘citizenship for saleʼ, i believe that it is time to evaluate the issue of eu passports and citizenship being sold to third-country nationals. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that any possible negative side-effects of this practice, including distortion of local housing markets and potential for money laundering, should be highlighted and addressed at a european level, in an effort not to undermine the mutual trust upon which the union is built. i share concerns regarding taxation of the new nationals, and hope that member states will acknowledge that citizenship within the eu comes with responsibilities, both socially and fiscally. i hope that this resolution will enshrine and strengthen the ‘sincere cooperationʼ between the union and member states.
mr president, the way in which the european union has evolved from being essentially a trading organisation into a political one is reflected in the higher and more exacting standards applied to each new accession round. it is no longer a question of countries being able to sustain the obligations of the free market; we are increasingly making demands that touch on their judicial systems and their foreign policies. i will take the same attitude to serbia that i took to croatian accession and that i would take to any of the other south slavic or balkan countries. if i were serbian, i would be very reluctant to surrender the advantages of a relatively educated workforce and relatively cheap exports to assimilate the corpus of eu social and employment law, but that is their decision. if they vote to join, i will support it, as i did in the case of croatia. i do have to wonder, though, at the lack of historical imagination here on our side that, in this centenary year of the austro-hungarian memorandum to serbia, we think nothing of making it a precondition that serbia puts foreign powers in charge of its judicial system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution that welcomes the accession negotiations with serbia but is clear to point out that serbia has failed to recognise kosovoʼs borders. a nationʼs choice to be independent must be respected. it also calls on the serbian authorities to conduct a more thorough investigation into the archives and officials of the former yugoslav peopleʼs army. many of my constituents in wales have written to me about the cruel treatment of dogs in some parts of serbia; it is vital that such issues are addressed as part of the accession negotiations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the 2013 progress report on serbia, which welcomes the decision to start the accession process with serbia.
mr president, we like to tell ourselves in this chamber that the justification and the boast of the european union is that we spread democracy, and yet in kosovo we maintain a protectorate. we have reduced that territory to the state of a satrapy, such as it was in ottoman times – and why have we done so? well, i think we all know the answer: because full democracy would result in ethnographic borders, as indeed has happened on the ground. but rather than allow the de facto border to become the de jure one or, to put it more blatantly, rather than allowing people to decide under which government they want to live, we sustain the full apparatus of a foreign government, a dictatorial state, in which we deny the people the right to self-determination. i am afraid we do it because, if we admitted that people want to live within their own language groups, the intellectual justification of the entire european project would collapse. you can have national sovereignty, you can have democracy, or on the other hand you can have federalism. it is increasingly clear that you cannot have both.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which applauds the work that the eu has done in facilitating the normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo and the opening of negotiations with kosovo on a stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo. it is regrettable, however, that the negotiating mandate for kosovo differed from that of previous stabilisation and association agreements. the eu must not put kosovo on a separate track to that of other balkan countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the european integration process of kosovo. this resolution largely welcomes two main positive achievements: the conclusion of the belgrade-pristina agreement in april 2013; and the municipal election which took place, for the first time on the entire kosovo territory, in november and december 2013. despite several violent incidents, the elections were considered successful.
mr president, the collapse of the icelandic banking system was the occasion for some unpleasant schadenfreude in this chamber. the stubborn independence of that small and brave country has been a standing rebuke to some in this place, who argue that you cannot survive other than as part of a multinational union. but four or five years on, iceland has bounced back impressively, and the paradox is that in this report it is accepted why that is. precisely because iceland was outside the euro, it was able to use its monetary policy in order to stimulate a recovery. there is now not a single icelander who would swap places with the stricken mediterranean eurozone states. there is one other part of this report that i think deserves a little bit of attention. it is noted that, because iceland is small and has what it calls limited defensive interests, it was easier to conclude a free trade agreement with bigger trade partners. the most recent fta, concluded on 15 april 2013, was between iceland and china and is expected to boost exports while eliminating tariffs on the import of manufactured goods. so much for the idea that you need to be part of a big bloc in order to sign ftas. we are dragged into a common european tariff and are therefore unable to exploit what iceland, with its population of 230 000 people, does, which is to maximise its prosperity by trading openly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which outlines that the european union remains fully committed to continuing and completing the accession negotiation process, if the icelanders decide to resume negotiations.
in writing. − the terrible loss of life and displacing of people that has occurred since violence erupted between the dinka and the nuer communities on 15 december is of grave concern. i welcome the start of peace talks and i very much hope that a peaceful resolution to this situation can be delivered.
mr president, the economic and financial crisis, the implementation of austerity measures, rising unemployment and continued high rents and mortgage repayments are all resulting in a higher incidence of repossession and in increased homelessness. tackling social exclusion and poverty by eradicating homelessness would help homeless people, who struggle to cope with life and are forced to live in inhumane conditions. while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, the commission should develop a homelessness strategy which recognises the right to housing as a fundamental and social right that ought to be guaranteed, and it should thus support governments in developing policies, including a moratorium on evictions. given that taxpayers’ money, to the tune of billions, been squandered bailing out banks and paying off international bondholders and speculators, it would take much less finance – and simply more political will – to resolve the terrible problems that homeless people endure.
mr president, the joint motion is right in noting the terrible plight of homelessness and its increasing prevalence across the eu member states. in my own constituency of london, annual figures for 2012-13 suggest that nearly 6 500 people were sleeping rough – including, sadly, many recently-arrived eu migrants. this figure represents an increase of 13 % over last year. the global economic crisis is, of course, a strong determining factor in this trend. however, this does not excuse the problem or the need to take preventative action. whilst i sympathise with the concerns which inform much of the resolution, i oppose the calls to undermine the clear position of subsidiarity that the eu has in relation to the member states having competence in this area. the right of the member states to deal with this issue in their own manner is absolutely vital. the resolution is careful to note the multifaceted nature of homelessness, so it should also respect the fact that those reasons are not necessarily uniform across all the member states. this is not a matter for the eu, it is a matter for the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which urges the european commission to develop an eu homelessness strategy. 1 245 households were described as homeless across wales during the july to september 2013 quarter. this number needs to decrease and the only way this will happen is with a strong homelessness strategy which calls on the expertise of all member states. i was particularly pleased that my group’s amendment to end the criminalisation of homeless people was adopted.
in writing. − the issue of how we look after homeless people is a very important one; however, it is not one which i feel it is the responsibility of the european union to address. our local housing authorities and our housing associations are best placed to handle this issue and therefore i cannot support this resolution, which calls for an eu-wide strategy to address homelessness.
in writing. − between 2012 and 2013 there were 15 360 applications to register as homeless in wales. social exclusion, economic issues and structural failures within housing systems all contribute to the number of people in wales and throughout europe who find themselves without a home. to protect this vulnerable section of society, i have voted in favour of the eu homelessness strategy. i am pleased to see this sensitive issue being addressed at european level, and i agree that homelessness is an unacceptable violation of human dignity. i believe that eu-level policy coordination in the homelessness sector has supported and enhanced efforts within member states to protect individuals at national, regional and local level, and i hope to see renewed energy and effort put into tackling this extreme and damaging form of poverty. on the basis of this resolution i would like to see further development between the eu homelessness strategy and eu funding streams, particularly from the structural funds.
author. − mr president, prime minister hun sen’s 27-year rule as the strong man of cambodia, and the one-party communist state of laos, which has seen just three leaders in the past 58 years, suggest a situation of entrenched misery rather than urgent needs, as described or suggested by today’s urgency debate. the national elections held last year in cambodia, which were seen by many as irregular, saw an increase in violence perpetrated against those in opposition to the government. this climate now appears to be extending into 2014, as already we have seen five peacefully-demonstrating garment-factory workers killed by government security forces. in neighbouring laos – a communist dictatorship – the sinister disappearance of the notable human rights activist and leading civil society campaigner against the regime, sombath somphone, and the reluctance of the lao authorities to investigate, or to accept international assistance to do so, is also of great concern. there is, of course, scope for improving matters by having the european union express conditionality requirements on basic civil and political rights in the terms of our own development aid packages to both countries.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, almost a year ago i spoke in this chamber on laos and the abduction of sombath somphone, and i am afraid to say that nothing has really changed since. the climate of fear created by his abduction remains real. in cambodia the situation is even worse, from crackdowns on workers by the security forces to a ban on demonstrations following the probably fraudulent elections. i am also very worried about the everything but arms initiative in cambodia. the european commission needs as a matter of urgency to act on the findings of the human rights impact assessment, because the eu cannot give privileges to companies which evict people from their land and homes without compensation. these evictions virtually equate to clearances; they are worse than evictions. the liberals and democrats therefore ask today for an obligation to testify that no eviction is carried out without full compensation as a condition for any company to benefit from the everything but arms initiative.
mr president, i want to register my protest. these are supposed to be urgency debates. the tragic kidnapping of mr somphone has been debated in this chamber before. the repression of textile workers in cambodia is not something that we should ignore, but let us have a sense of perspective here: we had seven hostages kidnapped during the massacre in camp ashraf on 1 september 2013 – six of them women. they are still missing. what are we doing about them? we have a looming civil war in iraq, the bloodbath in syria, the refugee crisis and assassinations and bomb attacks going on daily in lebanon and in beirut. what are we doing about these? why are we having this as an urgency debate? let us keep a sense of proportion.
author. − mr president, i deeply regret the fact that bangladesh has failed to hold a democratic inclusive election. as liberals and democrats, we believe in a free and fair society where everyone has a vote, and this is achieved in particular through credible inclusive elections. that is why, today, the government and the opposition in bangladesh need to put the interests of the bangladeshi people first. they need to find a compromise, including an agreed formula to allow for the possibility of an early re-run of the election – a compromise which gives a voice to the bangladesh citizens and which respects that voice. i strongly condemn the violence that discouraged people to go out and vote, as well as the arbitrary arrest and repression of opposition politicians. those who have been detained must be released. i certainly do not welcome the role that the international crimes tribunal has played in this. it has failed to reconcile society in bangladesh; it has used the death penalty in its judgments, and i believe that it has actually been a divisive factor. i also find it quite appalling that the united kingdom conservative party seems now to be supporting the use of the death penalty in bangladesh, if i read its call for a separate vote correctly. finally, i strongly urge the vice-president/high representative, lady ashton, to use strong diplomatic pressure to help bring forward a solution. i think this will be helped by a positive statement from the leader of the opposition this morning, who indicated that the opposition was going to call off the protests and strikes and look for a compromise. so let us hope that that compromise emerges so that we can defend the values of human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy.
mr president, this is just a point of order, because the conservative party in the united kingdom was directly cited by a liberal mep from the united kingdom. the conservative party’s policy on the death penalty is a simple one. it is a conscience matter for every individual mep to vote on. we have no corporate view within the uk delegation or the ecr group on the death penalty.
author. − mr president, the extremely sad truth is that, while gay rights are improving across the european union, much of the world appears to be retreating from this agenda and actually stepping up discrimination against lgbt people. it is deeply ironic that the anti-gay laws in india and parts of africa are colonial era statutes introduced by europeans, who themselves long ago repealed them in their own countries. gay people have lived in every culture throughout history, and governments must understand that this is a basic element of human sexuality. governments, of course, have the right to make their own laws, free from outside interference, but they do not have the right to criminally prosecute and persecute innocent people who simply wish to lead alternative private lifestyles. we must therefore do all that we can to support the lgbt communities and to work with our partners around the world, particularly with reference to the recent bills before the ugandan president and in nigeria to criminalise homosexuality there, to encourage changes to these rather regressive and unpleasant laws.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i strongly welcome this resolution, given the very worrying trend of the criminalisation of lgbti people around the world. it is horrifying that seven countries still have the death penalty in place as punishment for consensual activities between adults of the same sex. 78 countries consider it a crime. i read something from mr cashman this morning that questioned the relevance of the cotonou agreement. we have to remember that this partnership is aimed at reducing and eradicating poverty in africa, so i do not believe scrapping the agreement is a solution. however, the european commission does need to do much more, not only through pressure in diplomatic and trade relations – and it should then use agreements such as cotonou to leverage that pressure – but also through capacity-building and development aid projects. one example that we have in birmingham, from birmingham lbgt, is toolkits for schools to prevent prejudice and discrimination in this respect. the european commission needs to follow such examples and develop similar projects for the developing world.
mr president, the increasing criminalisation of lgbti people is reprehensible. during the last 48 hours in nigeria, up to 12 people have been arrested in their homes simply for being gay. they are the sons and daughters of ordinary men and women, dragged away to face time in prison – simply for being gay. mr bennion, last june this house questioned the relevance of the cotonou agreement and its human rights dialogue paragraphs. these new laws are an unfortunate testimony to cotonou’s impotence, because there is absolutely no dialogue on the rights of lgbti people. it is high time to evoke article 96, which foresees an exclusion procedure in cases of grave human rights breaches when all other solutions have been adopted. there are no other options. we must show that we take these grave, systematic human rights abuses seriously. therefore, the commission must initiate a third revision which meets our demands and start reflecting on our relationship, after the acp cotonou agreement, with the acp. finally, let me say this, mr president: history shows us that if we sacrifice the rights of … (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – is the rapporteur aware that even if a certificate is not a fake – and it is quite likely that people coming to britain will try to take a chance on these things – it can confer far higher status than we would regard as acceptable, for example in the case of doctors or vets. we feel that many of the people who hold these certificates are simply not competent to hold them.
blue-card question. – mr president, we of course very much welcome measures that would cut bureaucracy, but does the house not recognise that many of our national citizens have great problems with the idea of european citizenship, and that the policy of free movement needs some modification. there are a lot of instances of abuse, and this needs to be addressed.
mr president, i am not in favour of freedom of movement, in principle: sovereign states should be able to admit, or refuse to admit, whom they wish. when it applies between countries with widely different wage levels, it leaves the source country devoid of valuable labour and the destination country with home workers jobless. but the problem is aggravated when third-country citizens abuse the procedure by gaining access using forged and stolen documents, sham marriages and even proxy marriages. we are told that the procedure for authenticating documents is time-consuming and troublesome. it needs to be. the british home secretary submitted a document showing the extent of the fraud to the commission in december, but it is yet to be revealed to the public. the report sees freedom of movement to be not just a right, but an expectation. those promoting it are trying to eradicate national identity and, by encouraging third-party or third-country nationals, they are seeking to eradicate the identity of europe too.
rapporteur. - mr president, may i start by thanking all of my colleagues on my committee, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for once again working so constructively with me to deliver what i believe is a very good package. this is now my third report on the topic of better lawmaking for this house. we have come a long way towards reforming the eu in this area. when we adopted my first report, in june 2011, we called for renewed commitment to smart regulations from all sides, sectorial plans for reducing administrative burdens, assessment of competitiveness in impact assessments, and exemptions for europe’s smallest businesses from regulation where not necessary. each of these has been delivered, as part of a strong agenda towards reducing red tape at eu level. how has this been achieved? it is through commitment on the part of this parliament, leadership from the heads of state and government in council and through changing attitudes in the commission towards a leaner, more effective europe, based on a competitive regulatory environment promoting jobs and growth. but we still have much further to go. only recently, one of our eu leaders spoke of the need for a simplification shock to reduce the burden of administrative red tape and bureaucratic machinery on business, and to free enterprise to create the jobs we need. we must heed these words for, on this occasion, president hollande actually suggested the correct medicine. i am pleased to present my report to parliament. it spells out how we can achieve such a simplification shock at european level. initiatives such as ‘think small first’ and the top 10 most burdensome pieces of legislation should move beyond mere rhetorical flourishes and become concrete, established programmes within the commission, delivering proportionate regulation that fits with our small businesses, which make up 90% of all businesses in the union. the refit initiative should be implemented without delay, while an annual report on the net costs to business should be established to ensure that the better lawmaking agenda can be monitored effectively. we must be bolder still in our efforts to establish a competitive business environment. i strongly urge the commission to consider how to implement a burden-offsetting policy to ensure we can keep the costs of regulation down for our businesses. my recommendations do not, however, fall solely upon the commission. we in parliament and our co-legislators in council do not yet stick strongly enough to the principles of better lawmaking. we are too quick to ignore inconvenient impact assessments which point out the costs of action or even, in many cases, fail to assess the impacts at all. this is not good enough. we cannot regulate in ignorance of the costs of our actions, particularly at a time when businesses are hard pressed and the recovery from the crisis is fragile in many member states. in parliament we must make better use of our impact assessment unit, particularly in the preparatory stage of the work of our committee and in our work that follows. when legislative files come to our committees, we must seriously examine these accompanying documents to ensure that we legislate on the basis of evidence. the council must also take on this responsibility, in order that both institutions know the impact of their amendments. such developments are part and parcel of the better lawmaking agreement concluded between the institutions. however, this agreement is perhaps showing its age. our work in the new parliament should perhaps begin with a new approach in this area and i call on our partner institutions to begin discussions on this. finally, this report is also concerned with the engagement with national parliaments. in this area, interaction remains unsatisfactory. in my opinion, there exists a disconnect between the incentives for parliaments to provide opinions and the effects of such a procedure. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. - mr president, i thank my colleague for her question. it is quite right that, so far as the way in which we carry out our legislation within the european union is concerned, there is a need for reform – and that is exactly what we are trying to do here. in some instances, though, the commission still has not got used to the fact that things have moved on, post the lisbon treaty, from 1 january 2009. i hope that we can continue to move, on a cooperative basis, in a direction that gives transparency and greater power to this house, which is a properly elected body of the eu institutions.
blue-card question. – ms regner, would you agree with me that fundamental and individual rights are better protected at the national level and do not need this unnecessary and wasteful paraphernalia of the european commission and its acolytes to enforce them. do you agree with me or not?
mr president, i welcome the report and today’s debate. better regulation seems to be the phrase of the moment, and so it should be. the current economic climate has shown that regulation must be fit for purpose, simple to implement and cost-effective. otherwise we place pressure on already over-stretched businesses and we put economic growth and all the associated benefits such as job creation at risk. nevertheless, better regulation does not mean no regulation. i echo the report’s emphasis on impact assessments which particularly needs improvement where parliament significantly amends the commission proposals. i also commend the references to subsidiarity and proportionality and the role of national parliaments. better eu regulation requires the cooperation of all stakeholders and cannot be achieved by the commission alone. smes and micro-enterprises are one of the main drivers of growth and job creation in the union. taking into account their specific needs should be central to the better regulation agenda. the ‘think small first’ principle should be applied consistently and i strongly support exemptions and lighter regimes for these entities where appropriate. finally, i am very pleased to see a reference to gold-plating in this report and a call for member states to explain why they have chosen to go further than is required when they do so.
mr president, our businesses have to compete with others across the globe and, if we want growth and jobs, we need to allow them to be competitive. politicians do not make jobs. businesses do. the single market is meant to be about helping businesses to trade across borders, giving them easy access to 500 million potential customers. it is not about burying them under piles of paperwork. this is what the right of this house believes, but the left seems more intent on yet more bureaucracy. in certain sectors we have already cut red tape and secured exemptions for small businesses, but much more could be done. one-size-fits-all legislation is not always the right solution. we should only pass international laws where they are truly needed to solve international problems and we must listen more carefully to the concerns of national governments. we should adopt a one-in, one-out strategy and remember that one new eu law does not automatically mean 28 national ones are scrapped. the impact of our legislation and of our own amendments must be considered more carefully and we need to think small first, because the burden of bureaucracy is often felt most acutely by the smallest companies. tiny businesses should be exempted and smaller ones given lighter-touch laws. we have identified the top ten most burdensome pieces of legislation and we must take action on each one. on the issue of compliance, why do some countries obey every single letter and even gold-plate, when other countries are allowed to turn a blind eye? if the single market is to survive, every player should play by the rules.
mr president, i warmly welcome both these reports, which contain some very important recommendations, and i hope the house will give them very strong support tomorrow. i want to share some perspectives from my work as chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, together with all the political groups, which i think are highly relevant to these reports. mr karim is absolutely right in his report when he encourages us to think about the whole of the policy development cycle. we can get too bogged down in issues around impact assessments. we need actually to think about the policy evolution process. one of the things that i hope the commission will do in the next cycle is to present to parliament a five-year plan for each of its major legislative areas, because the key legislation that we work on in the internal market committee is constantly up for review. and parliament needs to start work at the beginning of the policy development cycle by doing own-initiative reports, engaging national parliaments and actually getting involved in shaping the final result. my committee was the first committee in parliament to invite the commission to present impact assessments to parliament at the start of our legislative process so we could understand the choices and the political strategy behind those proposals. that has been a qualified success, but really we need more time to do that and i commend our own impact assessment unit for helping us by sending their analyses of those impact assessments. policy cycle is what we need to be looking at, and not just the fragmented individual aspects of this whole better regulation process. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i would like to thanks ms ţicău very much for her question. she and i are members of the stoa panel but i assure you we did not agree this in advance. i agree with her entirely and that is why i argue that we need more time and more engagement with the commission at the strategic proposal stage because we should be looking at the evidence, we should be considering the scientific reports and we should be consulting more at that stage. and this is also the really crucial stage to get members of national parliaments involved, who otherwise feel very disengaged from the process. i think we have a lot to do there and i hope in the next cycle we will have a new interinstitutional agreement and we will have a commission that is prepared to work with us much earlier on in the policy cycle than it does at the moment. it does not apply to all aspects of the commission, but in many areas we have had excellent cooperation and i would like to see that policy cycle work continued.
rapporteur. - madam president, may i start by thanking all of my colleagues for a very well informed debate on a topic which is actually not only topical, but crucial. this is an issue of vital importance to citizens right across the european union. they are looking today for leadership, direction, and a means by which they can go and create and develop their businesses and provide employment to grow europe. are we giving them what they are looking for? i am somewhat disappointed still to hear from the left of the house only one voice: ‘let us cripple and burden entrepreneurs with more and more excessive regulation’. that is not an agenda that i am willing to sign up to. i hear all too often from businesses right across the european union that the last thing they need is for that sort of approach to be adopted. quite clearly, where it is appropriate, we have those measures and we are not dismantling those. my colleague, vicky ford, was quite right in the approach that she took. in relation to the role of national parliaments, this house and these institutions have nothing to fear from the greater involvement of our parliamentary colleagues in national parliaments. ms wikström, ms panayotova and mr plenković quite rightly made the point that there is a need for a greater role to be established for them. at present the amount of time that we have given to national parliaments to respond is simply not long enough. it is down to us to increase the time period available to them. under the yellow-card principle so far only two instances have arisen and, in one of those instances, i can tell you our commission’s response has been far from adequate or satisfactory. malcolm harbour, my colleague, is quite right about impact assessments. the work that he has done in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has been pioneering and we will build upon that. finally, i notice that this side of the house, with the populists, was deserted. these are the very people who played absolutely no role in committee on any of these issues. they put forward no amendments and their input has been nil. yet our issues of jobs, growth and prosperity are what they go and speak about outside this chamber.
madam president, this is not about affording lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender people more rights than others. this is about equality. once may dislike lgbti people. that does not matter. but a civilised society is judged by how it treats its minorities and, in this respect, 28 countries of the eu are severely lacking. the opposition to this report is proof that we need to take action to combat hatred and discrimination. the intolerance shown is terrifying in this, the 21st century. why should not lgbti people be afforded equal rights – not preferential rights, but equal rights? let me finish simply on this. my voters expect me to be principled and courageous and to do the right thing and i will vote in favour of the lunacek report because either we are, as a society, equal and civilised or we are not. i urge the house not to throw away what generations have fought for and continue to fight for.
madam president, i would like to thank mr rochefort for all his work. i welcome the review of the unfair commercial practices directive. although this was only introduced relatively recently, our world has changed due to the digital reality we exist within. the disparities in the application of the directive impair its effectiveness, and that can only be to the detriment of consumers. we need better enforcement, especially when it comes to vulnerable consumers, as was discussed by my colleague just now. however, there are a lot of issues concerning businesses that this directive also needs to address. although i welcome the targeted blacklist of commercial practices, i feel that if we want a practical impact to prevent scams of the type my colleague highlighted previously, such as the european city guide scam, we really need to consider, as we look forward, including business-to-business within this scope. however, what we have on the table here is a relatively good compromise and we should all support it.
madam president, we need to make the switch from fossil fuels to green energy, because power generation accounts for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions. the problem with renewables, of course, is their variability, and one of the solutions – as the rapporteur points out – is local smart grids encouraging people to use less when supply is less and letting people sell their own production back to the grid. the real challenge is moving thinking from the traditional inflexible base-load model to the variable decentralised local production model using electricity grids that use data and ict technology to make electricity distribution smarter. smart metering and the demand-response idea allow us to adapt consumption to prices and supply. we can bring down electricity bills, we can distribute energy generation and, with eu-wide standards for interoperability, we can ensure that the connecting europe facility is promoting these smart energy projects.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i was the ecr shadow rapporteur on both the committee on culture and education and committee on the internal market and consumer protection opinions on this issue. firstly, i welcome the introduction of multi-territorial collective licensing of authors’ online rights in musical works. this is something i have been very supportive of from the beginning, as multi-territorial licensing will enhance consumer choice in this sector and helps us advance towards the completion of the digital single market. this directive will open up the market and offer greater potential for new, innovative services to gain a foothold. from now on it will be much easier for service providers of online music to compete on a pan-european level, as they will no longer need to negotiate licensing agreements for each territory, and there will be fewer legal obstacles for start-up phases. i strongly believe that the removal of the current barriers will create better competition and generate growth in this sector. further, i welcome the change of the term ‘collecting society’ to ‘collective management organisation’, as it is creating a level playing field when this directive covers all forms of entities dealing with collective rights management, and not only the member-based or member-owned organisations. i support the increased transparency for collective management organisations and this is built on british best practice; it will help performers and artists to get real value for their rights, as well as provide clarity on how their rights revenue is collected and distributed. finally, as much as i support the introduction of the multi-territorial licensing for music, it should not be seen as the setting of a precedent for all types of licensing. this is not a one-size-fits-all solution and i am not keen to see the same approach for all tv and sports rights, for example, especially those with a strong national or territorial importance, as they are built on different business models and sensitivities, which also need to be taken into consideration.
mr president, i must firstly congratulate both commissioner barnier and ms gallo on having done such a splendid job. completion of the digital single market could well add 4% to eu gdp in coming years. many major initiatives are planned, all of which have the aim of improving access to online marketplaces, functioning of the eu intellectual property regime and establishing the structures necessary to support the digital single market. if we are to capitalise on this potential, we must find agreements on tough political issues and promote efficiency and competitiveness as key drivers for reform. reform in the copyright sector is one of these major initiatives, and on this file we have been able to find a good political agreement and a strong set of transparency- and efficiency-focused proposals which will deliver growth. removing barriers to online music services is essential if we are to support more innovation and better services for consumers in this area. we often talk of the need to create tech companies in europe that rival our american counterparts and even beat them. this is one area where we have such a european-based player, yet even their services are not available in each member state today. i hope that with this piece of legislation we will change this fact and give rise to a whole new set of innovative companies, promoting choice for consumers and competitiveness in the sector as a whole. lastly, on the question of collective rights management organisations, i feel the reforms made here will be just as important for the future of rights-holders across the union. by improving governance and requiring the utmost transparency in their work, cmos will really deliver for their rights-holders, because if they do not, the market will offer alternative solutions, and that will be easy to assess and compare.
rapporteur. - mr president, as always, i want to place on record my thanks to everyone: to my shadows, to emine bozkurt as the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) rapporteur, to both commissioners barnier and reding and to all our staff and experts, who worked extremely hard and, indeed, to the lithuanian presidency for their dedication and commitment in helping me to deliver these ground-breaking new rules, which will bring in strong eu-wide criminal sanctions to ensure that those intent on committing market abuse can be sent to jail in all 28 member states. this will be my last legislative work in this parliament. many of you will know that i have decided not to stand as a candidate in 2014, and so it is a real privilege for me to be able to work on this very important dossier, which i hope will establish trust and confidence in the internal market and financial services. so why do we need this new law? currently it is not a criminal offence to commit market manipulation in austria, bulgaria, slovakia and slovenia, and it is not a criminal offence to commit insider trading on the basis of tip-offs – i.e. passing inside information to a secondary insider – in bulgaria, the czech republic, greece, finland, germany, italy, slovenia and spain. so we have a big gap that we need to fill. the new rules therefore send a strong message that there are no safe havens in the eu for any market abuse behaviour, and they will serve as a deterrent for anyone intending to commit criminal acts of market manipulation and insider dealing. just last week, the uk financial regulator arrested and charged a ninth suspect, a former us hedge fund trader, as part of britain’s largest insider dealing investigation. the traders had operated a sophisticated insider dealing ring in 2007 but they have only been brought to justice seven years later, indicating how high the bar is to get a successful prosecution. that is why parliament insisted, in the negotiations, that member states ensure their judicial authorities and regulators are properly trained to monitor, investigate and tackle market abuse, and that their law enforcement, judicial authorities and regulators have effective investigative tools in place. since the financial crisis in 2008, more serious cases of abuse and manipulation, such as the libor interest rate rigging scandal, have come to light, but no one has gone to jail. parliament, in demanding eu-wide minimum levels of sanctions, wanted to ensure that member states take a tough stance on market abuse, and despite strong resistance from some member states, for the first time ever we are now introducing minimum jail sentences of four years for market manipulation, ensuring that they can face a criminal sentence. of course, depending on the severity of the offence, member states can go further and send offenders to jail for longer than four years. with the market abuse regulation voted on in september, introducing tough administrative fines, the new rules will ensure that all member states define market abuse in the same way and that manipulation of interest rates and benchmarks such as libor are now in the scope and are covered by the rules. the libor scandal and the manipulation of key interest rates was market manipulation of the worst kind. making manipulation of interest rates and benchmarks a criminal offence therefore again closes a loophole which allows benchmarks which set the prices for usd 350 trillion in derivatives and around usd 10 trillion in loans and mortgages around the world, to stop this kind of manipulation and therefore to protect consumers and those who are dependent on those interest rates for their mortgages. to date, those who commit this kind of market abuse in europe have had to be sent to the us to face the full force of the law. it is now good, therefore, that we have introduced these rules into the eu. during the financial crisis, companies turned a blind eye, or did not have the systems in place for proper control of market abuse. under the new rules, for the first time both companies and individuals can be criminally prosecuted. this again is an important step forward to ensuring companies are held to account for their complicity and their part in market abuse. member states will also now have the option to provide that market manipulation committed recklessly or by serious negligence can constitute a criminal offence. there have been countless examples during the crisis of banks acting recklessly. however, this behaviour has largely gone unpunished. today i urge the member states to bring this behaviour into the scope of their national law, to ensure that the kind of reckless and negligent behaviour we saw during the crisis is finally subject to the full force of these rules and to strong criminal sanctions.
mr president, insider dealing and market manipulation are undoubtedly wrong and harm countless numbers of people. they are not victimless crimes and should be subject to criminal sanctions. the argument is that when a market becomes international, the regulation must also become international. from that it is concluded that eu legislation is called for – surprise, surprise. there is a slight flaw in the logic or at least in one of the premises. the terms eu and international are not synonymous. what is required is an international treaty, signed by all significant trading countries, to the effect that the signatory countries will legislate for stated minimum standards of legislation. in this example, as in many others, eu harmonising legislation is the objective and the prevention of insider dealer and market manipulation is simply the pretext.
rapporteur. - mr president, as you are a tough president i would beg your indulgence to just say a couple of thank yous for the very kind words that i had. i have to say, to those who said to me that i am tough, that when i first went into politics at a very young age i tried to be nice but i found it did not work. being tough is the only way to get things done, and i have to say that i could only have got things done, and we could only have achieved what we have collectively achieved here – and we do achieve things in this parliament – by working with the very excellent, skilled colleagues that i have. the next parliament will have a very hard act to follow because in this term i have worked with some of the most excellent and skilled members that i have ever worked with in my time as a politician. your leadership, commissioner barnier, on these very complex issues, has been exceptional. some of you will recall that the ceo of goldman sachs, lloyd blankfein, in an interview in 2009 after the financial crisis said: ‘i am just a banker doing god’s work.’ well, i have to say commissioner, i have tremendous respect for your work because i think that you are a commissioner, as a top legislator, who every day is doing god’s work in cleaning up the financial services industry. let me just make one little political comment which i feel i do have to make: the uk has not opted into these rules, and i think it would be a shame and a big mistake if the uk did not sign up to these criminal sanctions. why? because the uk would see perpetrators fleeing justice in other parts of the internal market, so why not sign up to something which is in the interests of the single financial market which the uk claims it firmly supports and believes in. of course, the uk would be upgrading its own rules: it would be upgrading the uk national rules to ensure that we have criminal liability for financial institutions, and this is currently not part of uk law. it is a shame, colleagues, that no uk member participated in the debate except for the last intervention by mr brons, a former british national party member. he demonstrates why, sadly, i feel i have to give up this job because i have serious missionary work to do back in the uk to ensure that my country does not slide into an anti-europeanism that ends up having no respect for european democracy, no respect for this house as a parliament and undermines the very important successes and benefits that many of my constituents get from the uk being a member of the european union. so i hope you will support me in my missionary work as i go back to the uk to promote what we do here in this house, and i hope also to work with you all in the future in whatever role i take up. thank you again for all your support and indeed for being very excellent and hardworking colleagues as i progress with this legislation.
mr president, as a shadow rapporteur who has worked closely on this, i welcome the vote. can i reassure mr pirker that the principle of subsidiarity is reinforced within this report.
mr president, the oral amendment on behalf of the alde group is as follows: ‘takes note of the eu justice scoreboard with great interest; calls on the commission, in consultation with the european parliament, to take this exercise forward in accordance with the treaties with the engagement of the member states, while bearing in mind the need to avoid unnecessary duplication of work with other bodies’.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which will see the inclusion of greenland in the kimberley process certification scheme that ensures that diamonds traded by and amongst participants do not fund rebel groups. conflict diamonds have been an issue of concern for my constituents in wales. every diamond should be accompanied by a certificate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it will continue the tightening of legislation in regard to diamonds and help ensure that the kimberly process of certifying diamonds will function fully. greenland is expanding its mining, and thus diamond, sector and therefore an appropriate verification scheme should be put in place.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 which, together with the proposal for the council decision, should enable greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme that deals with rough diamonds, through its cooperation with the eu.
in writing. - the inclusion of greenland in the kimberley process can be seen as another step towards further strengthening its already close ties with the eu. greenland exports over 90 % of its goods to the eu, thus it is only natural for greenland now also to be included in this scheme. accession to the kimberley process can also be seen as a new dimension to the existing trade agreements already in place between the eu, greenland and africa. whilst the main objective of the kimberley process has been to promote the ethical sourcing of rough diamonds, the overall aim is to continue efforts towards definitively eliminating conflict diamonds from the global market. we must therefore welcome greenland’s participation in this wider process. mr moreira’s report also highlights the need for greenland to diversify its economy in order to become less reliant on its primary source of trade, its fishing industry. thus the kimberley process has an important part to play along this new route towards a more diversified trading economy for greenland.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which will see the inclusion of greenland in the kimberley process certification scheme that ensures that diamonds traded by and amongst participants do not fund rebel groups. it is an important issue for us in wales in so much as conflict diamonds should cease to exist and every diamond should be accompanied by a certificate. it important that as many countries as possible participate in this process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i support continued trade between greenland and the eu in minerals and other forms of trade.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal to facilitate greenland’s participation in the kimberley process certification scheme on rough diamonds through its cooperation with the european union. this association can strengthen economic relations between the eu and greenland in the diamond industry and help to promote the economic development of greenland, particularly for its indigenous populations, by enabling it to export rough diamonds accompanied by the eu certificate issued for the purposes of the certification scheme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. my group, the greens/efa group, put forward amendments on promoting a european point-of-sale system to provide a cost-efficient alternative to credit card payments and to ensure the right of customers to be refunded. this is important to my constituents in wales.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important that there is legislation to cover the migration to union-wide credit transfers and direct debits. it is always important to ensure there are no gaps in legislation and that consumers do not feel the negative effects of a change in policy at eu level.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe in the continued development of monetary payments abroad which avoid inconvenience for customers.
in writing. - the timetable outlined in this 2012 regulation was over-ambitious and has caused problems for some member states, therefore i support this proposal to extend the deadline for implementation by six months and i consequently voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation. the torremolinos agreements lay down safety standards for seagoing fishing vessels of 24 metres in length and over. the safety of all fishing vessels is of key importance, even where the industry is small, as it is in wales.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i support the enhancement of safety vessels which will help a substantial number of fishing fleets in a number of member states.
in writing. - i voted to approve this draft council decision, which authorises member states to sign, ratify or accede to this agreement, as appropriate.
mr president, we keep being told that federalism has reached the high-water mark; that the nation state is here to stay and that the whole tenor of the debate has changed. and on one level, rhetorically, verbally, that is true. but of course, as we see in reports like this, the process of extending the corpus of eu jurisdiction – the number of commission rulings against member states, the expansion of the jurisprudence of the european court – carries on without needing any new treaty decisions, any new implementing decisions by the democratic nation states. the days when the federalists were prepared to give battle openly, drawing up their lines with the sunshine gleaming from their greaves and their breastplates, are over. the one time that they tried that properly – on the referendums on the european constitution – it was a debacle for them. so we are back to this stealthy, silent encroachment of eu over national jurisdiction. the mistake that everybody makes in the member states is to talk about federalism as a joke; the euro and the political integration, and so on, they snort with laughter. but when the laughter stops, the institutions remain in place.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the general application of eu law. it is of utmost importance that the commission acts correctly in the observation and implementation of the treaties. in my experience, when constituents from wales have brought cases before parliament via the committee on petitions or made complaints directly to the commission, the exclusion of the complainants from correspondence with the member state on the issue has been a major problem. i support the recommendation that this should be changed to reinforce citizens’ rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe in the promotion of the systematic use of compliance-promoting tolls concerning data infringement cases.
in writing. - getting the legislation right, here in the european parliament, is just the first hurdle. ensuring correct, effective and efficient implementation of the legislation’s requirements is just as important. this report rightly stresses the importance of good transposition practices on the part of the member states, as well as the need for clear administrative procedures and practices to tackle instances of incomplete or incorrect transposition. i therefore voted in favour of this report today.
in writing. - this report addresses perceived difficulties caused by differing rules and requirements across the member states relating to official documents such as birth certificates and residency permits. presently most member states require documents to be authenticated, either through legalisation or apostille procedures, where documents have been issued in another country, including other member states. however, the rapporteur has chosen to increase significantly the scope of the legislation, whilst tory amendments to introduce greater safeguards against fraud and forgery were rejected. as a consequence i voted against this proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the proposal facilitates the freedom of movement whilst respecting individual nations’ legal systems. it is a shame that the freedom of movement at the heart of this proposal is currently threatened in scotland by the determination of london-based politicians to remove the uk from the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the free movement of people within the eu is very important. it is also important that we make this process equally easy and inexpensive for citizens and national authorities. cross-border movement is still seen as more complicated than movement within one member state, but we should try to make it as transparent and fair as we can.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, because i believe in promoting the free movement of people, which this report will do by simplifying the completion of administrative formalities for citizens within the eu.
in writing. - i support measures to rectify administrative burdens felt by eu citizens who live and work in member states other than their own. however, i am concerned that this proposal may not achieve the reduction in burdens that it sets out to and that it could lead instead to increased costs. therefore, i could not support this report today.
in writing. - around 12 million eu citizens study, work or live in another eu member state. some methods of establishing the authenticity of certain public documents are expensive, time consuming and can be considered disproportionate. to combat this, i have today voted in favour of the report on ‘promoting free movement by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents’. the proposed regulation aims to simplify the completion of administrative formalities for citizens by increasing the acceptance of certain public documents within the eu. i hope that this aids member states, as cross-border administrative formalities are generally considerably more complicated than member states’ national procedures. often, citizens moving to another member state may have to have their documents legalised by diplomatic authorities, provide expensive certified translations of simple documents, or submit certified copies of official records. i hope that this report helps relieve the administrative burden of migration in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, the purpose of which is to align the provisions of different directives with regulation (ec) no. 1272/2008 on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. if these laws are to be effective, this needs to be done. the aim of the clp is to protect workers, consumers and the environment by labelling to show potential hazardous effects of chemicals. i know from lobbying by my constituents on the reach directive how strongly people in wales feel about the need to increase protection from chemicals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it brings health and safety directives into line with the united nationsʼ system for identifying and communicating the risks posed by hazardous chemicals. this will help apply health and safety standards across the whole of the eu labour market, which is very important in the protection of workers, without holding back the development of smes and job creation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement which will update worker protection measures to reflect the evolution of the chemicals classification system. i am pleased to see that the agreement reached will maintain levels of worker protection, while minimising burdens on businesses, by promoting an alignment which is as proportionate as possible between the old and revised directive references to chemicals classifications.
mr president, what an extraordinary stream of hackneyed phrases we had a few moments ago from the president of the italian republic – one after another: ‘resisting nationalism and populism’; ‘keeping alive the european dream’; ‘building a true economic governance’. george orwell called it ‘duckspeak’, which means allowing sound to issue from the larynx without the higher brain centres being engaged at all. it is almost like listening to nick clegg. it was a stream of clichés that indicates that the speaker is not thinking at all about what he is saying. there was a certain pathos in an octogenarian former stalinist still trotting out these official slogans in a continent that has changed beyond recognition. actually, maybe that is not such a bad parallel. the nomenklatura, as you will well remember, in the 1980s, even when it was all collapsing, were still trotting out the official slogans. why? because in truth they did not know what else to do!
mr president, as we all know, over the last 10 to 20 odd years the internet has been an example of a disruptive technology. it shatters the old business models of the music industry which used to rely on the physical media: tapes, vinyl, cds. also, at the same time, we have another phenomenon, which is that some artists are living way beyond the original copyright terms. but what we see, or have seen in many cases, is the music industry not coming to terms with these changes in technology, trying to rely on old inhibitions and old barriers. let us make sure that the growth of this wonderful industry is not inhibited by the out-of-date attitudes of the music industry. let us make sure it is not inhibited by out-of-date licensing rules, and let us make sure that we can see a huge growth and explosion in this wonderful industry by getting rid of out-of-date copyright rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which addresses the issue of collective rights management and how to facilitate the licensing of copyright in europe. i hope this will make a difference for authors and artists, who should benefit more from the collective rights management system. in my constituency this has been the subject of a recent dispute with the welsh language radio station and so is of particular interest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an important step in the harmonisation of collective rights management rules. this legislation aims to create the legal framework for the collective management of copyright and related rights. this will help to protect both artists and online users who download music.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i support the creation of a strong legal framework for the collective management of copyright and other related rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today. the digital single market is one of the key tools we have at our disposal when it comes to achieving growth generation across the eu. the new measures adopted today will bring the laws that apply to one important part of this market, the digital music sector, up to date. they will remove barriers to new participants wishing to enter the market, revise licensing rules to make it easier for companies to offer services across the eu and foster greater competition in the sector.
in writing. - the harmonisation of collective rights management rules has been on the commission’s agenda since 1995. this long-awaited legislation aims to create a legal framework for the collective management of copyright and related rights, as well as the multi-territorial licensing of rights to musical works online. i have voted in favour of the ‘copyright & related rights & multi-territorial licensing of rights-music online uses’ because i believe that the requirements for ensuring the proper functioning of collective societies will improve the governance and transparency of the online music industry. secondly, the facilitation of granting multi-territorial licences for rights to musical works for online use in the eu will strengthen the collective dimension of management in areas where repetitive withdrawal of rights managed would lead to a loss of earnings and dismantling of the co-operative function of societies. i hope that this report leads to a clarification of the accountability of rules for both users and management bodies regarding the uses of copyrighted work.
mr president, as an mep for london, home to one of the world’s largest financial centres, the city, this is an issue that is very important. it is worth noting, however, that the ethical conduct of financial institutions in places like london does have effects which go far beyond their own confines. the 2008 credit crunch and the subsequent revelations of dubious practices in the banking industry have been a stark reminder that an unregulated light-touch regime does not always deliver the prosperity, respect and transparency that it promises. whether one considers the libor scandal or the cases involving hsbc and money laundering, we can see that this approach can lead to malpractice. i am pleased to note that the uk and the fca now impose some of the most severe criminal sanctions against those found guilty of insider trading and market manipulation in europe. however, the number of prosecutions and convictions for misconduct still remains very low. the proposal in this report will see the minimum criminal penalties for these practices now increased, by consensus across the union, creating a more level playing field, which i support.
mr president, i was a journalist for twelve years before i was elected here and i recognise when a story has passed the point of correction. nonetheless, i am going to say a very unfashionable thing: it is not true that the financial crash was caused by an absence of regulation. in fact, it is difficult to think of a more heavily regulated industry than financial services, with the possible exceptions of nuclear power and some elements of television broadcasting. the financial services authority guidelines on compliance with regulation in the uk are now 10 500 pages long. the truth is that this compliance is not useless; it is worse than useless because what it means is that the very large companies, which can afford the costs easily, end up taking up the little ones that cannot. we just create the wretched ‘too big to fail’ phenomenon which caused the problem in first place. our aim in this chamber should be the precise opposite of what we are doing now; not to have more regulation with the aim of preventing bank failure, but to have a plurality of operators so that a bank can fail without the taxpayer having to bail it out. it is not a problem; it is called capitalism.
mr president, i speak as one of the members of the european parliament for london, home to europe’s two largest financial districts – canary wharf and the city of london – both in my constituency. most people would agree that where there is criminal behaviour then those people who are criminals should face the full force of the law. but if we really want to learn the lessons from the crisis, there are three measures that we should look at. the first is, as explicitly as possible, no more taxpayer bailout for failing banks. secondly, let us make sure that directors are liable and accountable for bank failure. i do not mind if they earn great bonuses when they do well and perform well, but they should also pay the price for failure. thirdly, let us tackle the accounting standards which allow banks to book unrealised profits up front without making sufficient provision for losses or impaired instruments. if we could tackle those three issues, we would go a long way to learning the lessons of the crisis.
in writing. - this directive updates the 2003 market abuse directive by introducing maximum jail sentences of at least four years for market abuse, such as insider dealing, market manipulation and unlawful disclosure of information. it complements the regulation adopted last year which imposed large fines on companies involved in such practices. it should be noted that while the uk already imposes more severe criminal sanctions than required by the proposal, it has an opt-out on this legislation under protocol 21. nevertheless, as many member states have hitherto imposed less severe penalties in this area, i voted in favour of the report to reduce the number of cases of market abusers taking advantage of lax jurisdictions.
in writing. - i supported this report, which will impose criminal sanctions for ‘market abuse’ in the financial sector where appropriate. we in wales are still feeling the effects of an economic downfall brought about by the reckless actions of those working in the financial sector. it is right that there is the possibility of imposing criminal sanctions upon actions that have such far-reaching negative effects on whole populations.
in writing. - insider dealing is a crime with a significant cross-border nature, and it is right that the eu take action to tackle it. this action will become meaningless if the uk is dragged out of the eu by the eurosceptic right. i voted in favour of this report and will vote in favour of an independent scotland remaining within the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is vital that we have strong legislation on insider dealing and market manipulation in the financial industry. the economic crisis ,both in the uk and across the eu, was caused by an irresponsible and reckless financial sector and we must learn the lessons from this collapse. it is vital we also legislate on dangerous practice at eu level, so that we can coordinate action across the whole of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of further criminal sanctions for insider dealing and market manipulation as i want tougher penalties to be brought against any market abuse across the eu.
in writing. - following the conclusion of our lengthy negotiations in trilogue, i today voted in favour of this first reading agreement on the market abuse directive, which will bring in measures for criminal sanctions to tackle insider dealing and abuse of the markets.
in writing. - i welcome today’s report, which means for the first time there will be criminal sanctions across the eu for insider dealing and market manipulation. it is evident when we look at the libor scandal that eu legislation in this area is necessary. making sure that tough sanctions are introduced, including jail sentences, should be welcomed. i am pleased that there will be minimum sanctions put in place by the eu, and welcome the fact that member states can go further if they feel necessary. i also support measures that allow member states to introduce criminal sanctions for reckless behaviour and gross negligence. i sincerely hope that the uk government will sign up to the new law supported by a large majority of the european parliament today.
in writing. - following the libor scandal, this legislation will require member states to impose criminal sanctions on those found guilty of offences such as insider dealing and market manipulation. establishing eu-wide standards on sanctions – including a minimum 4-year jail sentence – will deter those who carry out market abuse across borders from the country with the most lenient sanctions. the report also states that sanctions should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, taking account of the profits made or losses avoided, as well as the wider impact on the economy and financial markets. in addition, for the first time, companies will be considered criminally liable for market abuse. member states will also be required to ensure that law enforcement and judicial authorities have the necessary resources and training to investigate market abuse. this is a first step in ensuring that the sort of gross negligence and recklessness that led to the financial crisis is taken seriously, and i would now like to see the uk opt in to the legislation in full.
in writing. - this regulation has been resubmitted to parliament due to an incorrect legal basis being used in the original proposal. a notification mechanism will be put in place for member states to provide the commission with certain data and information regarding investment projects in energy infrastructure that concern the production, storage and transport of oil, natural gas and electricity. i voted in favour of this report as it will help to build a better understanding of the eu’s energy infrastructure, which will be particularly important when reviewing and planning energy security policies.
in writing. - i voted against this report, as i did not feel that it was strong enough in terms of developing an energy policy that would protect the environment. we need an energy policy that will secure supply, mitigate climate change and ensure competitiveness. significant investment in energy infrastructure is crucial. i welcome the launch today of ‘energy wales’, which sets out how wales should exploit its natural resources for the greatest social, environmental and economic gain. wales needs the powers to implement such a strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and consider it an important part of enhancing the internal market in energy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because this is a first reading agreement concerning notification of energy infrastructure projects. the eu provides a vital level of governance for coordinating energy infrastructure across eu borders and this ultimately makes our energy supply more reliable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i believe in the continued growth of the energy and renewable sources industries.
in writing. - a strong understanding of the eu’s energy infrastructure is important if we are to ensure effective planning of energy security policies. this report provides an opportunity to better this understanding and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this appointment. the candidate was questioned and there is no conflict of interests with his potential position in the court of auditors.
in writing. - part of this report is dedicated to the procedure on the appointment of the court of auditors’ members and consultation with parliament. it is stressed that some appointments to the court have given rise to differences between parliament and the council, and it is considered unacceptable that the council appoints members to the court of auditors despite parliament’s unfavourable opinion. here, i support the current application of article 286 tfeu, whereby the council has the right to adopt candidates for the court of auditors after consulting the european parliament. i defend the council’s right to override a negative opinion by the european parliament. consequently i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a number of changes to the current situation concerning the court of auditors. the european court of auditors was established to audit eu finances. it contributes to the improvement of the union’s financial management while acting as the independent guardian of the financial interests of eu citizens. it is, therefore, in the interest of my constituents that we make changes to the court of auditors to ensure that the process remains as clear and as transparent as possible.
in writing. - i have some concerns with regard to the aspect of this report which addresses the procedure for the appointment of the court of auditors’ members and parliament consultation. i support the current application of article 286 tfeu, whereby the council has the right to adopt candidates for the court of auditors after consulting the european parliament. therefore i could not support this report today.
in writing. - this report looks at the future role and functioning of the european court of auditors and aims to introduce improvements that will resolve the problem of the negative das and improve the overall results of the eca. i am disappointed that the alternative motion for resolution was not adopted, but i hope that the new proposals that remained part of the report will go towards reforming the eca. the eca’s independence, integrity, impartiality and professionalism are paramount and ensuring a strong working relationship with the european parliament is vital for the future workings of the court.
mr president, where did we get the idea that big is beautiful? the european union’s foundational doctrine is that the world is conglomerating into these huge blocks and we need to be part of one if we are to be wealthy or successful, but it just does not match the evidence. if it were true, then china would be wealthier than hong kong and indonesia would be wealthier than brunei and, for that matter, the european union would be more successful than switzerland. in fact, the wealthiest people on the planet all live in micro-states: the united arab emirates, jersey, monaco and so on. this report is a brave attempt to try and shift power downwards, to take decisions more closely to the people they affect and therefore to avoid the duplication, the waste and bureaucracy which is intrinsic in large government and is the single chief reason why the european union is falling further and further behind and why it is the only continent on earth not experiencing any growth. the ancient wisdom of aristotle holds true: ‘to the size of a state there is a limit, as there is to plants, animals and implements, for they can none of them retain their facility when they are too large.’
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as the principle of subsidiarity is of key importance. encouraging dialogue with national parliaments helps to address the eu’s democratic deficit and re-addresses the balance, allowing us in wales, through the national assembly for wales, to have another means of scrutinising eu laws. increased participation will result in better eu law-making, bring the eu closer to its citizens and reduce red tape.
in writing. - this non-legislative report, drafted annually by the legal affairs committee, provides the european parliament with the opportunity to reflect on the eu’s ‘better law-making’ agenda. better law-making exercises, such as the ‘think small first’ principle, can play an important role in delivering jobs, growth and competitiveness in europe. by improving the design of legislation and simplifying existing rules, the eu can help to ensure the removal of unnecessary regulatory burdens on citizens and businesses – particularly smes and micro-enterprises. however, deregulation should not be at any cost. labour meps have taken a consistent and coherent approach to safeguarding environmental and social measures in existing eu legislation. right-wing meps rejected s&d amendments to ensure the protection of these measures, and therefore labour meps could not vote in favour of the report, which would undermine eu environmental, consumer and worker protection.
in writing. - i abstained from this vote because, although i am in favour of further scrutiny and involvement in eu legislation, one of the amendments deletes calls for ‘red card’ systems for national parliaments, which i am against.
in writing. - i very much welcome this report, which has been led by my ecr colleague, and i voted in favour of its adoption. conservatives in the european parliament have long been battling against red tape and burdensome legislation and will continue to fight for better law-making that gives our small businesses maximum support and creates maximum opportunities for growth and expansion. i am pleased to see this report highlighting a number of the key measures we must prioritise in going forward: improving the regulatory framework for our smallest businesses by expanding exemptions from european legislation, reducing the incidence of gold-plating and strengthening evidence-based policy making in the european institutions.
in writing. - i voted against this report, which looks at proportionality and subsidiarity. the inclusion of the suggestion for a stronger ‘yellow card’ procedure for national parliaments as well as the rejection of amendments concerning workers’ information and consultation rights, consumer rights and environmental concerns meant that i could not support this report. i believe that while eu laws must be clear and easily understood, reducing the regulatory burden should not undermine environmental, consumer and social rights in existing eu legislation.
in writing. - i voted against this report. although i support the objective that european legislation should be simple and effective without creating an unnecessary regulatory burden, this report challenges many social and environmental measures that labour meps have consistently supported. the report calls for the implementation of commission programmes which target many key areas of legislation such as the working time directive, the temporary and agency workers directive and health and safety legislation. workers’ rights cannot be viewed as a regulatory burden, and simplifying eu law should not come at the expense of rules that provide important environmental and social protection.
mr president, i strongly support lgbt rights. no one should be discriminated against on the basis of their sexuality or gender identity. i have personally campaigned for the rights of gays and lesbians, especially in those countries where homosexuality is illegal. i was proud to support the turkish-cypriot gay community and celebrated with them when homosexuality was decriminalised last week. but while i believe in lgbt rights, i also believe in the sovereignty of the eu member states. the eu should not encroach in areas in which it does not have competency. anti-discrimination measures are important, but we must not duplicate the work being carried out by member states by introducing additional eu requirements. while i abstained on this report, it does not diminish in any way my support for lgbt rights and the fight against discrimination.
mr president, today i voted in favour of an eu roadmap against homophobia. i have been extremely vocal recently in criticising legislation in russia, and also legislation around the world that even criminalises lgbt lifestyles. in this respect it is absolutely vital that we ensure that we have our european house completely in order. we still have some homophobia in the air in europe. anyone can experience homophobic bullying, just for being different. this particularly impacts young people growing up, because they will not feel that they can be themselves. we cannot accept that in an inclusive society. my liberal principles mean that i must champion fairness, equality and diversity. i welcome all the work that many charities do to fight against homophobia and homophobic behaviour but, as members of the european parliament, we also need to do our part.
in writing. - abstained because these are all matters which should be lie only within the province of a national parliament, to be dealt with according to our own culture, mores and policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which calls for a roadmap against homophobia. the lgbt survey published by the agency for fundamental rights in 2013 indicates that 47% of lgbt people felt discriminated against or harassed in the last year. this is unacceptable. i represent all my constituents in wales and welcomed the parliament's backing for the roadmap.
in writing. - it is fitting that we voted upon this report on the same day that the scottish parliament votes to legalise same-sex marriage. discrimination and exclusion on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity still exist in society, but we as politicians have a duty to render such discrimination unacceptable.
in writing. - the conservative delegation in the european parliament believes in defending and promoting equality and rights for all, regardless of sex, race, religion, sexual orientation or disability. discrimination and hate crimes in all forms should not be tolerated, and conservatives have worked to guarantee equal rights for lgbti people in all areas. however, we do not believe that social policy, particularly regarding education, healthcare and the creation of a new anti-discrimination directive is something which should be legislated upon by the european union. member states will always be best placed to set social policy, and this is a position which the conservative party has consistently defended.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is important that the european parliament outlines its position on lgbt and gender rights. there still remains much discrimination against lgbt persons and this is completely unacceptable. this is an own-initiative, non-legislative report so will not impact on member states, but i think it was an important statement for the european parliament to make nonetheless.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i am against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation.
in writing. - i strongly support the fight against discrimination and the promotion of equality and rights for all. however, on subsidiarity grounds, i could not support this report because i believe that social policy (particularly regarding education and healthcare) is something that the member states, not the european union, are best placed to address.
in writing. - i supported this report, which calls for an eu equality roadmap for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex people. there are already equality strategies for roma integration and preventing discrimination on the basis of disability or gender, so it is right that we also develop a strategy for lgbti people, who still routinely face discrimination. while recognising that many areas are matters for national governments, the report calls for member states and eu agencies to work together to develop measures to prevent discrimination in all areas, including employment, education, access to healthcare and other services and in the field of citizenship. discrimination on the grounds of sexuality or gender identity goes against the fundamental values of the european union and i am pleased that, even without the support of the tories, a clear majority of the european parliament supported this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i want my constituents to be protected by laws governing unfair practices across the eu. i agree with the commission’s assessment that it is too soon to amend the directive, as it came into force only in june 2006, but that more evaluation will be carried out.
in writing. - i welcome this report on an important issue. the unfair commercial practices directive is a clear example of the eu working for the benefit of its citizens. scotland’s future is best served by scotland remaining in the eu, as a normal independent member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to ensure that consumers are not misled or exposed to aggressive marketing and that any claim made by traders in the eu is clear, accurate and substantiated. in the single market, where we have many companies and smes operating in more than one member state, it is important we have strong legislation in this field.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the implementation of the unfair commercial practices directive because i believe in better consumer rights in the marketplace, and this directive seeks to ban misleading and detrimental practices towards customers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which responds to the commission’s assessment of the application of the unfair commercial practices directive in the member states. i am often contacted by constituents who feel that they have been subject to an unfair commercial practice or who do not know who to turn to for advice on their consumer rights. this directive has made clear inroads when it comes to strengthening consumer protection and ensuring that consumers are better informed. however, we must continue to work hard right across the eu to ensure that we are doing all we can to prevent such unfair commercial practices.
in writing. - directive 2005/29/ec on unfair commercial practices is the european union’s main legislative tool for regulating misleading business-to-business relations. i voted in favour of this ini report, because i want to ensure that consumers in europe are not misled or exposed to aggressive marketing. i believe that any claim made by traders in the eu should be clear, accurate and substantiated, thus enabling consumers to make informed and meaningful choices. i am pleased to see calls for increased scrutiny on the standards of cross-border online purchasing, especially with price comparison websites and online advertising which targets vulnerable groups, particularly children. i hope this report will be a step towards greater consumer protection throughout the eu and a better standard of both offline and online commercial practice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as my constituents in wales believe in a fully democratic eu. the european parliament should be consulted on all matters, and this includes matters falling under the justice category, such as the justice scoreboard.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and believe that all the eu’s justice systems benefit from exchanging information on best practice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it was the parliament’s opinion on the commission’s first report looking at the performance of national civil and administrative justice systems. this eu scoreboard is a valuable comparative tool targeting the relevant difficulties member states face.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i strongly believe the eu justice scoreboard remains a valuable comparative tool for eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the flaws in this european commission initiative to prepare a ‘justice scoreboard’ for 2013. i do not believe that this initiative generates valuable information on member states’ legal systems and judicial structures, as not all member state systems are equivalent and therefore cannot be compared. i support the critical position outlined in this report and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i am concerned that this report goes way beyond the competence of regi and deals with questions that ought to fall within the sole competence of itre. moreover, as parliament has already adopted reports on the role of cohesion policy in implementing eu energy policy and on the implementation of energy efficiency measures under cohesion policy, this report is unnecessary and unhelpful. beyond this question of competence, the report calls for ambitious strategies and policies for dealing with co2 emissions – in particular, the call for further ambitious binding energy efficiency and renewable energy targets. i am firmly opposed to the setting of any such ambitious targets which prioritise renewable energies over other low-carbon alternatives. moreover, i am strongly opposed to the earmarking of 20 % of erdf funding in the recent 2014-2020 common provisions regulation for strategies to develop a low-carbon economy. the report is overwhelmingly prescriptive concerning this point. it is for these reasons that i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the importance of the development of a flexible and decentralised energy supply which is stable, secure and affordable and especially important for nations such as wales. this report outlines the many benefits and opportunities for regional economies and marks a transition from fossil-fuel dependency to a renewables-based model.
in writing. - i support smart grid schemes that create a more efficient and effective energy supply. my own constituency has experienced an upward spiral of energy prices. while regulating costs is a separate issue, the use of smart grid systems can promote a ‘demand side response’, reducing generation capacity and cost as consumers take more responsibility for their electricity consumption. in northern ireland, a number of smart grid initiatives in places like coleraine and londonderry have begun, with the northern ireland executive and the utility regulator starting to facilitate the use of demand side units in the local electricity market. moreover, northern ireland electricity is working to secure eu funding under the connecting europe facility in relation to smart grids. nevertheless, despite my support for these initiatives, i am concerned about two aspects of the report. firstly, it sets extremely ambitious climate change targets for 2030. secondly, it arguably breaches the subsidiarity principle, as 20 % of the european regional development fund is earmarked for a ‘low carbon economy’. it ought to be the decision of member states how this funding is spent and prioritised. therefore i voted against this non-legislative report, but i continue to support the development of smart grids.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support greater care towards the environment which this report will help achieve through lowering of greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy and other important influences.
in writing. - i could not support this report today. i believe that it goes beyond the competence of the regi committee and deals with some issues that should be the sole competence of the itre committee. it also results in unnecessary duplication when it comes to the role of cohesion policy in implementing eu energy policy and the implementation of energy efficiency measures, as parliament has already adopted reports on these issues.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which looks at how energy is produced and consumed at local and regional level. it is vitally important that resources are used appropriately so that regions become producers and not only consumers of energy. i hope that, as part of a long-term policy framework, smart grids can bring numerous benefits at local and regional level e.g. lowering greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy and boosting eu technology and innovation. member states and regions should harness the use of the european structural and investment funding to achieve this.
mr president, i voted against this report because the general tone of the report indicates further sources of funding will be needed, either from the common agricultural policy (cap), or the wider eu budget. given that the cap has recently been reformed and that we have cut budgets across the board to meet the realities of member state governments, i feel that the report’s measures will be unnecessarily expensive. it is vital that we continue to support farmers with small agricultural holdings. such holdings are fundamental to the diversity of the farming sector and offer an important link between product and community, but throwing money at the problem does not necessarily produce results. while i recognise the hard work of small farm workers, we must look at alternate solutions. we cannot reopen the cap, nor can we increase eu spending. cooperation between smallholdings, environment and animal-welfare sections is vital and it will be a great way forward. i do not believe pumping millions into the sector right now is appropriate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. agriculture is an important industry in wales and we have many small farms. as such i support this report, which seeks to ensure that no more small farms disappear, thus leading to more rural depopulation and poverty. however, it calls for action post 2020, when it will already be too late for many small farmers.
in writing. - i represent a country where small agricultural holdings form a vital part of the culture and economy. unfortunately the london government discriminates against scottish farmers and crofters in the application of the cap. only with independence will our small holders receive a fair deal.
in writing. - there is little doubt that small agricultural holdings have been subject to sustained demographic, commercial and technological pressures in relation to their larger counterparts. as this report outlines, such pressures can lead to the gradual de-agrarianisation and depopulation of villages in areas where small agricultural holdings predominate. while i am supportive of any efforts to boost the competitiveness and profitability of small agricultural holdings, i do not believe it is necessary to make further changes to the common agricultural policy (cap) specifically to protect small farms, as the report proposes. the small farmers scheme, exemptions from greening obligations and an extra payment on the first hectares, were measures put in place to protect small farms. my own constituency is largely comprised of small and medium-sized farms; nevertheless the definition of a small farm in northern ireland varies from other member states. i believe what the cap reform agreed was the best possible deal for small farmers locally and throughout the eu. after months of arduous negotiations, and given the fixed nature of budgets, i am particularly wary of altering a compromise that has barely had a chance to get its feet under the table. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i do not believe less stringent rules and more financial aid will help enhance competiveness and business diversification in rural development programmes.
in writing. - uk conservatives believe that restoring the competitiveness of europe’s steel industry will be a crucial component of our wider economic recovery. we were particularly pleased to see a focus on research and innovation in the committee report and also the acknowledgement that eu climate and energy policies have led to an increase in energy prices throughout europe. while we voted in favour of this report we were unhappy that calls for the eu to follow a more protectionist approach to trade agreements were adopted; instead we would prefer to see a progressive liberalisation of foreign markets. additionally, we believe that national and regional authorities are better placed than the eu to address local restructuring and retraining needs that arise as a result of industries closing or relocating.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the parcel delivery market has grown rapidly as a result of increasing ecommerce. as it will further expand, building consumer trust is essential. my constituents in wales like others all over the eu order products online. it is important that their rights are protected.
in writing. - in the midst of the economic crisis, e-commerce has defied the effects of the downturn. the eu’s e-commerce market grew by over 20% in 2012, with the delivery of goods purchased online seen as one of the commission’s top five priorities for boosting e-commerce by 2015. crucial to sustaining the growth of e-commerce is consumer confidence in the online transaction process. i support the report’s calls for more cooperation between e-retailers and delivery operators, more readily comparable information on delivery options and more transparent information on procedures to follow in case of damage to or loss of goods or delay. i also support the report’s efforts to create a level playing field for smes, with easier access to online markets so they can sell their products across borders. in my constituency, both consumers and small businesses often have to contend with higher prices for delivery, given northern ireland’s relatively peripheral location. i hope that this report’s calls for more affordable delivery options for consumers and sellers to ensure a genuinely single market are heeded. nevertheless, i believe the enforcement of the existing regulatory framework, rather than a new regulation, is the best means to achieve this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i would like to encourage better parcel delivery in light of the rapidly growing e-commerce markets within europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which i believe makes a well-balanced assessment of this sector and outlines targeted recommendations on how we can address the barriers that remain in place when it comes to parcel delivery services in the eu and support the growth of the e-commerce market.
in writing. - scotland once had a competitive and sustainable steel industry. decisions made by the thatcher government put an end to that. this resolution calls for the president to forward the text to the member states; the uk as the relevant member state is responsible for the demise of the scottish steel industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an important part of the strategy to re-industrialise europe and the steel industry remains an important part of the industry sector across the whole of the eu. it is vital we have coordinated action across the eu to get out of the crisis and escape the full impact of the austerity measures of the right wing parties and governments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support low carbon energy deployment strategies and the restructuring of the industrial sector.
in writing. - reviving the competitiveness of europe’s steel industry should be a key goal in our continued push for wider economic recovery. prioritising research and innovation will be essential if we are to achieve this goal, and i am glad to see this report acknowledging the importance of this. whilst i was disappointed by the calls this report makes for the eu to follow a reciprocal approach to trade agreements, overall i was able to vote in favour of its adoption here today.
in writing. - as has been the case with many sectors of eu heavy industry, the steel industry has been in sharp decline over the last few decades, a decline further exacerbated by the financial crisis of 2007. as andrás gyürk’s report highlights, it is imperative that we do not abandon the common principles that first led eu member states to develop closer economic ties with one another. rapid globalisation in recent years has dramatically changed the face of the steel industry, and the eu steel industry is now obliged to adapt very swiftly in order to survive these changes. in order to rebalance the mechanisms that have led to over-capacities we must boost demand for eu steel production. i therefore welcome the action plan’s proposals aimed at reviving the industry by strengthening structures already in place as well as encouraging competition by eliminating many of the barriers that have hindered progress in recent years. by making these key changes and modernising this sector, we are securing the eu steel industry’s role as a key player in the competitive global market of today.
in writing. - i welcome this own-initiative report which highlights some of the challenges currently facing the european steel industry. over the past few years around 65 000 jobs in the steel industry have been lost, including hundreds in my consistency in wales. i welcome the commission’s action plan for the steel industry which aims to prevent further relocation of steel outside europe. i agree with suggestions in the report that the commission, member states, trade unions and industry should work together to attract qualified workers into the industry and i believe using apprenticeship schemes would be an effective way of doing this. the report also highlights the effect that rising energy prices have had on the competitiveness of the steel industry and i support remarks made to underline the importance of the single energy market in relation to this. the steel industry provides over 350 000 direct jobs and several million in related industries. we need to be looking at new ways in which to boost investment in the steel sector, to make it more competitive and to ensure the protection of workers in this industry.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we should all make sure that the lessons of the past are learnt and mistakes are not repeated. before the crisis, shareholders and investors benefited from the profits made by banks, but when disaster struck taxpayers were left to cover the losses. we have already changed that with new rules across the single market, which are being mirrored across the globe, so investors take the first losses and depositors are protected. this parliament has made some helpful changes to this legal text to make sure that its rules mirror those across the single market, but this piece of legislation is primarily for those in the euro area. as an economist i understand why monetary union needs a closer fiscal union and a banking union. if those within the euro area want to pool their sovereignty then that is their choice, but it is also a huge change and it is no wonder the negotiations are difficult. there are large amounts of money at stake and my group has empathy with national governments which want a say. my group also has many members from nine different countries which are not currently in the euro area, some of which will never join the euro area, and the rules for the euro cannot be cut and pasted to those outside. those inside should not expect others to pick up their bill and parliament’s text does not address this issue. when banks fail, we know decisions need to be taken quickly, and too many cooks spoil the broth. i understand why colleagues from other groups want fewer decision-makers at the table and they do not want all the cards held just in the hands of a few large countries. but every bank is different, circumstances are never predictable and so experts also warn us against the tick-the-box approach. we must have some flexibility and not be too prescriptive. however, we are really debating this today because some meps are fighting not about the big picture, but about the legal instrument. they are dancing around on the edge of the treaty and it is a dangerous dance. if there is legal uncertainty at the time of crisis, our economies will pay.
mr president, originally some finance ministers said that parliament would just have to give in on the srm. that, of course, is not how it works. i am glad to acknowledge some improving tone, but significant changes in texts is what counts. we must streamline procedures so that rapid, country-blind approaches are taken, not those hamstrung by too much council or nationally-tilted decision-making. that is why i have problems with the content, as well as the form, of the intergovernmental agreement. the country-blind approach must apply also to the use of funds. banks are affected by the economies that they serve, so it is true there is a member state tie which will endure even after the asset quality review deals with legacy issues. there are two possible responses to that: create a fund that right from the start helps to break those links, fostering collective financial stability and growth, or put controls and compartments on the fund that unpicks those benefits. the latter – council – approach puts brakes on achieving a better monetary union. it is the opposite of haste, so why do it in haste? we will negotiate loyally and speedily aiming for an agreement to get the best of both solutions, but not at any price. there is no deadline. if need be the work can be left unfinished to be picked up by the next parliament.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, of course we are all, in principle, against subsidised imports – that is dumping – and there has to be trade defence when trade counterparties decline to accept the principles that underpin free and open trade. but by trade defence we do not mean what happened when the otherwise distinguished eu commissioner for trade was happy to launch what might have become a full-scale trade war with china over the comparatively minor matter of solar panels. i have described this previously as a frolic. it also took place against the representations of 17 of the then 27 member states. this report, in its essentials, gives greater scope, power and discretion to the commission. illegal dumping by third countries of course needs to be dealt with, but not by appointed trade officials acting on a whim. the european union, in its beginnings and in its operations, is a protectionist construct. on open trade, it is simply not credible. in the context of dumping, the way forward is a sense of proportionality. that is how an independent britain should handle this problem, and there will be an independent britain sooner than most people think – and that ‘most people’ includes the president of italy today.
mr president, if you start from a position of 28 countries locked into the eu, and all of them locked into the global trade system governed by the world trade organisation, you might be forgiven for thinking that there was some merit in the commission’s proposal, for example, to modify the lesser duty rule, or to impose provisional duties after establishing proof of what even the eu would consider to be dumping. however, i am tempted to take the part of the man in the joke who, when asked for directions, replied: ‘i would not have started from here.’ i am opposed to eu controls over my country’s ability to manage its own trade. however, i am even more concerned about the eu and the wto facilitating trade with low-wage economies with whose manufactured goods we cannot possibly compete, and which constitute dumping, without any investigation being necessary.
mr president, i cannot believe we are still spending time talking about the financial transaction tax. this is not a robin hood tax – it is a sheriff of nottingham charge. history tells us that, when financial transactions are taxed, financiers leave. they move to other parts of the world, and the people who are left to pay the tax are the pensioners, the savers and the companies who are looking for money to grow – each of us as taxpayers – when our governments have their own costs of funding put up. that is why so many countries have said no to an eu ftt. then there is the issue of extra-territorialisation, which means forcing one country to collect tax on behalf of another. it is not legal, which is why the uk has to waste money taking the eu to court. some say that the eu should look to the uk because we have a stamp duty. yes we do, but big investors do not pay it. furthermore, from 1 april small companies’ shares will not be subjected to it either, because we want those companies to be able to raise money to grow. so we are unwinding our financial transaction tax. i am not opposed to taxing banks. in the uk the bank levy raises gbp 2.5 billion every year. however, if you are going to tax financial services, do it in a more intelligent way. this is a waste of time, a waste of effort and a waste of money, and the poorest will end up paying.
mr president, for a tax to attract one or two non-partisan critics would be unfortunate. to attract dozens sounds a bit like carelessness. the tax is superficially appealing as a levy on institutions blamed for the recession: a tax on the rich to benefit the poor. but, as one critic said: banks simply pass down their taxes to us, the customers. indeed, the ftt would be levied most heavily on long-term investments such as those of pension funds. the good news is that it will be levied in only eleven countries. the bad news is that it might be drafted in a way that would catch some transactions in countries that have rejected it. there is reason to believe that its imposition, even at a modest level, would lead to the migration of funds to countries beyond those participating in it. if it were ever to be imposed on all 28 member states, funds would migrate to new york and elsewhere. remember: the ftt is the chosen instrument to be an eu own-resources tax.
blue-card question. – mr president, i do not normally wave my national flag, but i have in london a liberal democrat environment minister who is doing his very best to ensure that we are putting forward a low-carbon strategy for the future. if mr eickhout wants to point the finger at my country, will he recognise that, while my country’s share of renewable energy is probably about third from the bottom of the european list, that of the netherlands is about fourth from the bottom? there is not a great deal to pick between the two of us. is he proud of that?
blue-card question. – i did think my colleague, mr davies, was going to try and ask you to explain why the german subsidy for renewables is currently about a hundred times greater than the cost of the co2 emissions it prevents, because surely that is a subsidy to be aware of. we will not make our carbon reduction targets without investing in a plethora of different solutions for low carbon, including nuclear, where the life-span subsidy is actually less than the subsidy given to renewables.
blue-card question. – my question concerns challenging the figures on the cost of nuclear energy. i am not sure whether i need to address it to ms ford, or sort of indirectly to mr eickhout. over the course of 35 years, the british subsidy for nuclear will amount to twice the subsidy for off-shore wind, despite the fact that off-shore wind is a very new technology and nuclear has been around for about 70 years and, according to the french court of auditors – who have reason to follow these things closely – has got increasingly expensive over that period. this is perhaps why the commission, i understand, has some questions about state subsidy of nuclear as proposed by the british government.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, recently the international panel on climate change published a report showing that 95% of scientific research points to human action being the cause of climate change, yet the commission has failed to produce ambitious 2030 climate and energy targets. i urge this parliament to endorse legally binding targets for greenhouse gas emission reduction, renewable energy and energy efficiency. these targets must be ambitious if we are to avoid unprecedented global warming. despite what the commissioner said, the lack of ambition in the commission’s proposal has the potential to knock the wind and wave out of an industry which has been booming, thanks to legally binding 2020 targets for renewables. we believe that it has vast potential to go further. these three binding targets promote much-needed investment in green and renewable technology. i do not believe that false options, such as nuclear or carbon capture and storage, are the way forward.
mr president, this report sends an important political signal in the last few months of parliament to the commission, to the council and to our own constituents. we should make clear that meps are committed to leading the battle to control climate change. so many of our constituents have suffered extreme weather events in recent years and the urgency of that battle is now well understood. parliament should also show that it understands the economic necessity of using energy more efficiently and of developing secure, sustainable, indigenous european energy sources. it is the volatile and rising cost of imported fossil fuels which is driving up europe’s energy prices, not subsidies to renewables. the most important lesson to learn from the 20/20/20 climate package is that binding targets work; they deliver. without a binding 2020 target for energy efficiency, progress has been far too slow, despite the fact that there is a political consensus that energy efficiency is vital for economic efficiency, and i welcome commissioner oettinger’s promise of further proposals on energy efficiency later this year. i am in no doubt that some individuals and governments supporting a single greenhouse gas target sincerely want to see an ambitious level of greenhouse gas reduction and a market-driven push to a low carbon economy made possible by a high carbon price. but let us not be naive, most individuals and governments who want a single greenhouse gas target want it because they hope it will ensure that nothing much happens at all. they want the greenhouse gas reduction to be 30%, not 40% or 50%. they want the target to be set after the climate change talks in 2015 and not before. they say they want the market to drive investment, but at the same time they vehemently oppose any reform of the emissions trading scheme (ets) and any rise in the carbon price. let us get real. energy efficiency and renewables are the ‘no regrets’ options of greenhouse gas reduction. let us commit to them. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – we know what we want to achieve. what we have to achieve, for the sake of the planet, is a very serious and quick reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. my concern is that without a high carbon price, for which there is a great absence of support politically at the moment, a single greenhouse gas target cannot deliver such a reduction. that is the reality if you look at how the council votes, at how parliament votes. i do not see support for a high carbon price, which would be necessary if a single greenhouse gas target were to deliver what people want it to deliver.
mr president, we need affordable, secure and sustainable energy policies. in the past decade, europe’s industrial policy has been neglected in favour of climate policies. in seven years, our energy prices have risen by 40%, but in the usa they are down by 4%. companies have relocated to countries with cheaper energy. they take jobs with them, and this does not make for a cleaner planet. de-industrialising europe is not the solution. we need to work with industry and enable investment in infrastructure. the eu currently creates 11% of global greenhouse gas emissions. this is predicted to drop to 4.5% by 2030. we alone cannot save the world – it needs a global effort. an eu emissions target is a good sign to others and an important sign of a global bargain. member states must be free to choose their own energy mix: nuclear, renewables, ccs, shale and energy efficiency too. the commission has listened to those who say ‘time for change’: let us not blow this chance for change.\* (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – i am really worried about smes, because just in the past few months i have been hearing from the glass industry, from the cement industry and from the fertiliser industry about how other operators are opening up on our borders and moving their plants to other parts of the world – plants that are not cleaner, plants that are not more energy efficient, but which are just taking jobs and growth with them. big companies can relocate to places that are cheaper, but small companies often end up shutting down. so the costs for the smaller companies are even more acutely felt. that is why we need affordable, secure and sustainable energy.
mr president, i think it is a good report and i hope it will get support tomorrow from across the house. but when i listen to tonight’s debate, i do have a bit of a heavy heart. i was thinking back to five years ago, when we had just adopted the climate package and had a clear ambition – across all the mainstream parties here – about what we needed to do. now we cannot even take simple decisions quickly, like with the ets back-loading. as mrs hall said, at a time when the evidence of climate change is all around us, our citizens understand what it means. if you look at the commission proposal, yes, it keeps the show on the road, but it is not as ambitious as i would have liked and, i think, as some of the commission would have liked as well. i am very disappointed about the targets, but also disappointed about something that nobody else has mentioned: the fqd, the food quality directive. i feel we have given in to the tar sands lobby on that. yet there are some people in this room who want to water down the commission’s proposal even further; we have an ecr resolution tomorrow which suggests that we should do nothing; nothing until after the cop in paris in 2015. so we should go naked into the conference chamber and tell the rest of the world: ‘we are not doing anything until you do something’. that is not the way to lead in the world; that is not the way to lead on climate change. we have businesses across europe urging us to act; 2030 is tomorrow in terms of investment for companies. so let us hear about real industrial strategy for the long-term.
mr president, in our last session, parliament called for member states to be required to produce a long-term strategy for reducing their emissions by 80 to 95% by 2050 and that, i am afraid, is missing from the commission’s recent communication about long-term vision. member states have got to start making some long-term plans. they need to be forced to come forward with some ideas about how that is going to be achieved, if they are to start putting in place the building blocks for it. i would ask the commission to look at that when it comes forward with its legislative proposals later in the year. two years ago, parliament supported my report calling for a competitive low-carbon economy, and i have to say that i believe that setting a european renewables target is the wrong way to achieve that balance. member states need flexibility about how best to achieve the co2 reductions. we all want not to be tied to one particular technology in every circumstance, with ridiculous subsidies in some cases. the way forward is as the commission proposed just last week: national plans, national targets, which will then become legally binding. i have always supported a role for renewables, but i believe that some members here have lost sight of the objective, which is to achieve a low carbon economy at the lowest possible cost. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – the ccs report that we put forward recommends carbon capture and storage as one of the technologies that need to be developed. that is one of the reasons why we need to have a long-term view, because it is only by taking the long-term view that member states will progress in that direction. i recognise that this needs subsidies, of course it does, but they have got to be part of national plans to fit national circumstances. there has got to be flexibility as to how best to achieve our goals.
mr president, on energy policy we like to talk about three objectives: energy security, competitiveness and sustainability, although the technologies we use to pursue sustainability are clearly unsustainable. for years we have focused obsessively on green policies and renewables and we have totally ignored both competitiveness and security of supply. on competitiveness, we are creating what industry commissioner tajani has called an industrial massacre in europe. we are driving energy-intensive businesses away off-shore, taking their jobs and their investments with them. often they go to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards, so we are increasing global emissions while driving jobs out of the eu. we are forcing up domestic energy prices and driving households and pensioners into fuel poverty; thousands of pensioners will die of winter cold as a result of our policies. renewable subsidies are profoundly regressive, taking money from poor consumers and giving it to rich landowners, companies and hedge funds. meantime, america has cheap shale gas, china has cheap coal and the eu cannot compete. on security of supply we are doing little better: countries like germany once had excellent power supplies but now teeter on the brink of disaster. we need to scrap renewable subsidies; we need to prioritise indigenous resources like shale gas and coal. we are closing nuclear power stations in germany and coal-fired power plants across europe. the commission’s proposal fails to address these problems. it will do nothing to enhance jobs or prosperity. it will hasten european decline.
rapporteur. - mr president, this is a historic agreement. the arms trade treaty was negotiated at the un level for the regulation of trade in conventional weapons. the aim of the agreement is to establish common standards for the regulation of the arms trade and to eradicate their illegal trade. one person dies every minute as a result of armed violence, which is a moral outrage in today’s world. until now, there has been no legally binding global treaty on conventional weapons, unlike weapons of mass destruction and landmines, which are already regulated. this treaty covers the import, export, trans-shipment and brokering of arms transfers. all major types of arms are covered, including small arms and light weapons. the treaty is a major achievement after a decade of negotiations. in particular, the work of civil society organisations in supporting and pushing for this agreement has to be acknowledged. at the outset it is important to note that this un agreement is a huge step forward for the regulation of the global arms trade and this house should welcome it. the global arms trade is a eur 22 billion industry. the sale of weapons in countries is not transparent at the moment and the effect these weapons can have on peace, stability and poverty can be devastating. with this agreement the signatory countries have acknowledged that this is an industry which urgently needs to be more transparent and more responsible. countries will be required to evaluate arms transactions to ensure they meet the necessary criteria, including a block on any transactions in cases where there is a risk of genocide or war crimes. the treaty also requires transparency measures, including annual reporting of arms exports and informing other parties of national control systems. citizens and civil society organisations will be able to evaluate the principles of the treaty and hold their governments to account for the arms trade transactions taking place and the impact they are having on recipient countries. it is important to note that, even after countries evaluate an arms transaction in relation to genocide or war crimes, there are other criteria which must be taken into account. countries must assess how the arms transactions could be used to undermine peace and stability or could contribute towards violations of human rights, cross-border crimes or terrorism. there are some shortcomings in the agreement. parliament asked for an impact on corruption and socio-economic development to be taken into account in relation to arms transfers. this was not included in the treaty. the treaty gives signatory countries responsibility to interpret and implement the agreement. it is important that in the first stages of the implementation there is a strict understanding of the need for high standards, and i hope the eu can help to promote this. unfortunately, some significant countries have indicated that they may not take part in this agreement. russia is responsible for 20% of the world’s arms trade but abstained on the treaty. the united states is the biggest exporter of weapons but was divided on the treaty and looks unlikely to ratify it in the near future. india is the largest importer of weapons and has also abstained. to be effective, the treaty must have the world’s biggest players engaged. the european union, speaking with one voice, can help to lead the way and encourage the implementation of, and widespread agreement on, this treaty. we must use eu support mechanisms to assist our own member states to implement the treaty in line with existing eu commitments. the european union should evaluate different arms policies across arms exports, dual use and intra-eu arms transfers to ensure the european union’s policies and institutional structures are coherent on this issue.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the united kingdom has a special interest in these matters. it is europe’s leading arms exporter, and a responsible arms exporter. it was also one of the co-authors of the un general assembly resolution that called for this internationally agreed arms trade treaty to be drawn up. it is important that we remember that the arms trade treaty is just that: a trade treaty and not a disarmament treaty. over the years i have been much involved in the campaign to ban anti-personnel landmines. this was about eliminating a certain very specific weapon, often used indiscriminately and with terrible consequences, mainly by terrorist and insurgent groups. there were those that constantly sought to widen the scope of the resultant ottawa treaty into other fields, so it is important that we be clear about the limited purposes of this arms trade treaty. we should also be clear that it should not interfere in the right of a state to decide nationally on its arms export controls in compliance with internationally agreed criteria. in discussing such matters, we are entering into important and sensitive areas of national sovereignty. it is unfortunate, therefore, that the resolution perhaps inevitably includes some eu competence-creep, calling for the eu to be part of the treaty, pushing for an eu support mechanism, for implementation and an att outreach programme. i suggest that what is more important is that our governments and the eu put effort into ensuring that countries such as china, pakistan and russia are signed up to the highest possible international standards, rather than wasting valuable time harmonising european positions that are already very similar.
mr president, over 10 years ago in response to the amnesty international campaign, i proposed a successful amendment in the british labour party’s national policy forum to support an arms trade treaty, and having campaigned for it ever since, and with our then uk government playing a leading role, i am honoured to join my colleague david martin in being present tonight as the european parliament gives it assent to the historic treaty which resulted. joining the landmine ban and the convention on cluster munitions we have proved that it is possible for the world to regulate the international arms trade. this treaty is a major step which will restrict the flow of arms to those who would use them to violate human rights. i would say to those who said europe should not develop a code of conduct in arms sales because we can never use it to secure a global agreement that they have been proved wrong. now, europe is taking a major step towards the treaty entering into force this very year. we are committing ourselves to helping third countries to develop control systems so that they can ratify it too, and i am very sorry that the british conservatives have opposed this initiative tonight. i am sorry, too, that at 3 a.m. last saturday morning the us senate voted against ratifying the treaty in a budget amendment. the right to bear arms should never outweigh the right of innocent victims to be protected from their use, so speaking at 10.20 p.m. in this european parliament i am confident that we in europe will do the right thing.
mr president, i happen to have been at the united nations and security council yesterday, in snowy new york. i support this un multilateral treaty on controlling conventional arms sales both in general terms and because it has been signed by the uk. it is vital here to stress the difference between the united nations, which is intergovernmental – i.e. agreements are made between the governments of 193 individual nations, 154 of which have signed this agreement – and the european union, which is supra- or trans-national – i.e. it cuts above or across nation states. i do not agree with that approach. indeed, the official un brochure i have here says that the un is not a super-state, nor is it a world government. the states members of the un remain sovereign and equal and have no intention of delegating this sovereignty to any supra-national entity. the point is that, as long as this report does acknowledge decision-making is done at national state level, then it is an advance.
mr president, as has been said, this is a historic achievement. having something which binds most of the international community together on conventional arms – even if it is only most of the international community – is vital to closing the loopholes that have existed for so long in international law. the proliferation of small arms has, after all, been responsible for fuelling the genocides of the past and has contributed to the prolongation of bitter civil wars with the loss of tens of thousands of lives. although some countries which manufacture significant amounts of small arms are not supporters of this treaty and never will be, we do engage the moral majority of the world by actually proposing it in the way it has been proposed. for that reason, we should thank parliament and those involved – in particular richard howitt and david martin, in this report – for being prime movers for this change and for the support which is now taking hold around the rest of the world.
rapporteur. - mr president, firstly i would like to thank commissioner tajani himself for the work that he has put into this treaty. i appreciate all the efforts the commissioner has made. although it is the member states who are responsible, the commission has stood four-square behind the member states in putting this on the un agenda. i would also like to thank all my colleagues for taking part in this debate. let me say, if people are posing the question ‘is this treaty perfect?’, that no, it is not. is this treaty a huge achievement in beginning to seriously regulate a very volatile industry? yes it is. it is a major step in the right direction and there is no doubt, as other colleagues have said tonight, that trade in arms and ammunition has a significant influence on peace and stability and can, when not responsibly traded, intensify violence, human rights abuses, corruption and poverty. i am confident that the european parliament tomorrow will pass this treaty with a large majority and i welcome the fact that, after we do that, the commission will push the 28 member states to ratify it as quickly as possible and use its diplomatic contacts to encourage other countries to sign up. we need to get past the 50 threshold as quickly as possible and to get this on the un books. many members have rightly condemned iran, syria and north korea for voting against this treaty, but let us be clear that this does not mean they escape the impact of this treaty if exporters act responsibly, because if exporters adhere to the terms of the agreement they will not sell arms to those countries and that itself will make a major contribution to bringing stability to, for example, the middle east, and perhaps bringing north korea back into the civilised world. this treaty is not perfect. it is a major achievement though, and it will be judged in the end on the difference it makes to people’s lives on the ground. i think we are, at long last, going in the right direction in globally controlling the world’s arms trade.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it gives me great pleasure, both as the shadow for this dossier, but more particularly as the chairman of the committee, who chaired the trialogues, to welcome this agreement. as the commissioner said, it has taken a long time to get here, rather deceptively i think, because when we started on this – and i want to commend our excellent rapporteur, zuzana roithová, for her great patience in sticking with this dossier – we expected it to be rather more straightforward than it was. we made a lot of worthwhile improvements, as she notes, in terms of bringing the information requirements up to date, making them more electronically favourable and advancing consumer interests. the problem has not been related to the content that we needed, but to the bureaucratic procedures that we are now facing with the lisbon treaty about the delegated and implementing acts. that this is something that you, president, on behalf of the parliament, need to reflect on. we have found significant difficulty in getting the member states in council to work with us and to accept the balance of discretion and power to the commission that lies between delegated and implementing acts. even though the prime ministers agreed this great lisbon treaty, it is quite clear that, at an operating level in member states, they seem to be curiously unwilling to accept what they regard as an excessive level of delegation to the commission. there is clearly a lack of trust there about the commission’s willingness to consult them during the process. this is something the commission has to reflect on, but i would say that it is also something that this parliament needs to take up directly with the council. we can call today for a renewed interinstitutional agreement that is going to reflect these issues, and i hope that this matter will be taken back to the president of parliament. overall, there are some clear lessons to be learned from this. the other point i would make, if i may – as i note that you have five minutes for catch-the-eye but, since i see nobody else apart from mr cofferati who is waiting to speak, i am sure you will indulge me a bit as chairman of the committee, because i do not get any extra time for being chairman – is that we need to examine the whole relationship here between the comitology procedures and our entitlement as a parliament to be involved in working group meetings. this is conferred on us under the lisbon treaty, and we have sought to safeguard that by the change that ms roithová has made. unfortunately the commission has so far resisted this – and no doubt mr tajani will hand me a statement of objection tomorrow – but this is an important point, mr president, which i think you, as the chairman, need to be aware of. the commission will give us a statement complaining about the way in which we are safeguarding parliament’s prerogatives and it is very important that i get that on the record this evening so that you and the presidency understand that. i am disappointed we have not been able to reach an agreement on this matter, but in these complex technical issues there are much deeper points that have to be examined. in conclusion, i do not want to detract in any way from what ms roithová has done, but i would ask you to take back to the presidency some of the issues that have arisen during this really important review and approval of this legislation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, colleagues, i speak to you today as the rapporteur on last year’s report on regulation (eu) 261/2004 and regulation (eu) 1008/2008 and also as the green shadow for mr bach’s report today. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his very constructive approach, and i am very pleased to say that we have been able to change the emphasis in the commission proposal from one which was largely pro-industry – pro-airline – to one which is much more pro-passenger, and that is the version we will vote on today. although my group’s view that compensation should be paid after one hour was not carried, a compromise of three hours was, and that also mirrors the european court of justice’s position of three hours as the trigger. so this is considerably better than the starting point of the commission, which was five hours. we are also able to support the narrowing of the extraordinary circumstances to stop airlines hiding behind this excuse to avoid paying compensation to travellers to whom it is due. i am pleased to see the recommendations about better communication with passengers, and i also hope that implementation can be improved. in that regard, i think that our suggestion of independent mediation bodies will prove very useful. also, the environmental impact and energy efficiency of passengers’ travel will be provided on the website and on the tickets for the journey. we cannot expect people to be more responsible about carbon emissions if they do not know what the effect of their activities will be. all in all i am very pleased to be able to support this report, and i would like to thank mr bach once more for his constructive approach.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as the original shadow rapporteur for the ppe group on the 2004 legislation, i believe that the initial regulation brought a number of benefits for our passengers across europe and raised standards of service in many of these areas. however, as has been mentioned, following the icelandic ash cloud incident and the ecj rulings, it was quite right that we looked at this legislation again to see if we could redress that balance. i would like to pay tribute to georges bach, our rapporteur, who has worked tirelessly to find a way forward, and i am sure that after this he will be taking a welcome holiday. but regrettably, we are in a position where some of the areas have been changed from the commission proposal, which could lead to some unintended consequences for passengers by, i believe, possibly reducing choice, putting up prices and damaging the competitiveness of our regional carriers. there are clearly benefits and we fully support some of the changes, such as those on the 90-minutes grace, changes on tickets and making sure that airlines’ websites are clear and concise before people press the pay button. however, we fought hard in this parliament to raise the profile of, and support, our regional airports, which benefit local communities, generate economic growth and create jobs throughout the supply chain, and there are parts of this report which, if adopted, we have concerns about. these include reducing the trigger points from five to three, which may seem to benefit the consumer but perhaps could see many more air cancellations, and that would be regrettable. as a consequence, this could lead to a reduction in feeder flights from regional airports, which in turn could destroy some of the long-standing inter-line agreements, a practice which has taken place for decades. the increase in compensation levels, certainly at the lower level, quite often does not reflect the very cheap ticket costs that people are sometimes able to get. i would like to have seen a more actual cost there, dependent on what somebody paid for the ticket. nevertheless, i am hopeful that a number of these issues can be sorted out. finally, i would just like to say that i tabled a number of amendments regarding gibraltar. it was in the original regulation, i asked for it to be removed, and that was not the case. i would just like to clarify that, in 2006, the governments of the uk, spain and gibraltar signed the cordoba agreement, which means that gibraltar is part of the single market. it is a british overseas territory and part of the eu and it must be extended the same rights as any other country in the european union. we lost the vote in the committee on transport and tourism, but i have retabled these amendments and i do hope that the committee, and not just the committee, but also the members of the european parliament as a whole, will support them.
mr president, as a member of parliament representing northern ireland, which lies at the very periphery of europe, i am all too aware of the obstacles that the residents in my own country face as a result of long delays and cancellations. therefore i welcome this debate on how best to protect them. to generate economic growth we must encourage business, entrepreneurship and increased tourism. an important part of doing this is by ensuring that our workforce feels confident – and, indeed, that foreign visitors feel confident – to travel by air. this report would give better protection by ensuring that passengers subject to long delays receive the same rights to compensation as those suffering cancellations. it would also extend the right to accommodation in these cases and emphasise support for disabled passengers. passengers also stand to be better supported in situations where carriers go out of business. this is positive. we must, however, recognise the opportunities that our air industry and new air routes bring for jobs and growth in regional economies. it is vital that, while passengers are protected, airlines are not placed under enormous financial pressures with legislation. finding this balance is vital to sustaining investment and moving forward.
mr president, over the last few months of this parliament we have the opportunity to make a real and lasting improvement to the lives of millions of our citizens. for far too long, some – and i stress some – airlines have obfuscated, obstructed and obscured the rights of air passengers to proper compensation when they suffer serious delays to their journeys. with the revision to this regulation and a new comprehensive list of extraordinary circumstances, we can close the loopholes which have prevented passengers – including many of my constituents – from receiving restitution when delayed by airlines for reasons of poor operational management. in future, passengers will also have clear and transparent information on hand luggage allowances and reassurance that they will not be penalised for shopping at airports. but despite so many enhancements to passenger rights, there is one glaring reversal: gibraltar. if the amendments recognising gibraltar as a european airport are not passed, i cannot in all conscience vote for this legislation, and i urge the house to support those amendments.
mr president, to declare an interest, i have the honour to represent gibraltar and its people. i am speaking now to address potential problems at gibraltar airport. the context is that the government of spain systematically – and as i see it, vindictively – inflicts petty controls at the land border between gibraltar and spain. this has resulted in massive and unacceptable delays. incidentally, the people who suffer are mostly spanish citizens. because of the problems at the land border, air travel becomes of prime importance. attempts have been made, and are being made, by members of this parliament, by means of legislative devices, to suffocate air travel in and out of gibraltar’s airport. this must not be. this is a disgrace and i urge colleagues to support the amendments today. i would further go on to say... (the president cut off the speaker)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – sir, let me first of all assure you that my memory is excellent, and i suspect rather better than yours. yes, the commission did make a visit. the commission stupidly and predictably gave the spanish government about six weeks’ notice, so for the purpose of that one visit the spanish authorities, for want of a better word, ‘cleaned up their act’. the reality is that these delays are still going on and you and your colleague should be heartily ashamed of yourselves.
mr president, the rights that this legislation gives to the passengers who depart from eu airports – and i regret that we do not have gibraltar included unless we pass the amendments – are very important and fundamental rights. the current law has not been one of the easiest to implement, particularly concerning extraordinary circumstances. the civil aviation authority in the uk, for instance, is really struggling with this term. our clarifications really do help in this respect. the results today will give clarity as to where a passenger should get compensation for a reason that is not at all extraordinary. i also welcome better clarity on baggage allowances: we have said a lot about the two-bag rule and the one-bag rule. i am hopeful for the success of my amendment suggesting a tax-free ticket for a carer required to accompany a person with disabilities. i would not support new amendments that take things one step too far, as the unintended consequences would be more cancellations, fewer regional flights, fewer through tickets and increased prices for passengers. as liberal democrats, we champion fairness for passengers and i believe that this legislation delivers just that.
mr president, i would firstly like to congratulate our rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for an excellent report, and also the commission for actually addressing this issue. it would, however, be useful at this point to ask why this revision of regulation (eu) no 261/2004 is necessary. it is necessary because the present regulation is being abused by airlines, and they are being assisted in that abuse by national regulators who have completely abdicated their responsibilities and encouraged, through non-action, the airlines to drive a coach and horses through this legislation. this report will put an end to this type of ‘happy time’ that the airlines have enjoyed up to now. only 2% of passengers affected by cancellation or delay have received compensation – a paltry, derisory 2%. why? because the airlines claim that every delay or cancellation is due to force majeure or extraordinary circumstances, and if you challenge that view you are told ‘we will see you in court’. this report will severely restrict this loophole by making clear that technical problems are not force majeure. i say to the airlines today that if their aircraft breaks down, then that is their responsibility; and if that means that passengers are severely delayed or their flights are cancelled, then airlines should pay up and accept their responsibilities. no doubt some airlines will be scurrying around now trying to find new loopholes rather than pay up to the long-suffering passengers. i say to this parliament today, and to the aviation industry out there, that this regulation and report is about passenger rights – not airline rights – and should be supported by the whole house. finally, can i thank monarch airlines for showing me in practical terms why this regulation had to be amended and the loopholes closed. after a dreadful experience coming back a mere 26 hours late from tenerife in august 2012, the compensation offered to the passengers on that flight was a big, fat zero.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his difficult balancing act: the need to protect our air passengers and at the same time maintaining the economic vitality of our airlines. he has done a great job. but what i have to criticise is the failure of the committee on transport and tourism to pass the amendments on gibraltar. the problem here is there is simply no justification for excluding gibraltarian citizens, citizens of the eu, from passenger rights that will apply to everybody else. it is absolute discrimination and an absolute undermining of their fundamental rights as european citizens. where else would this parliament allow that to occur? it seems very odd to me that members of the transport committee did not take the opportunity offered by my colleague, mrs foster, in her amendments, and vote to end this discrimination proposed by the commission. i want to add my voice to those today who have been objecting to this gross discrimination. the people of gibraltar deserve more from the eu and we are here to deliver it.
mr president, i represent south west england and gibraltar. this is one of the few remaining eu aviation measures that still contain a clause excluding gibraltar airport. after the cordoba agreement in 2006, spain told the commission that it would no longer seek gibraltar’s exclusion from such aviation measures. indeed, it recently transposed into national law an open skies agreement with post-cordoba language; in other words, including gibraltar. but the commission’s proposed revision of the regulation left in the gibraltar exclusion clause. that must come out. it was raised as an issue last year at the transport council; it has been raised here in our transport committee by me and others and in both parliament and the council people have asked why we are debating a sovereignty dispute when we should be debating passengers’ rights. the answer is because this is about the rights of every eu citizen, gibraltarian, spanish or other, who uses gibraltar airport. i urge colleagues, therefore, to vote for amendments 171 to 174 deleting the exclusion clause and to support the wronged people of gibraltar.
rapporteur. - mr president, all over the european union today, seasonal workers will be carrying out essential tasks to keep our industries and our economy alive, yet there will be a gap in the regulation and the treatment of seasonal workers. it is very important that since the treaty of lisbon we have had the new legal powers to deal with that gap. that is the dry justification for what we are doing today. colleagues will remember, however, that three years ago the stimulus for the legislation that we are carrying out today was not just our legal obligations to fill this very important regulatory gap, but the scenes that we saw in rosarno in italy where we saw riots, and where we saw cardboard cities of very vulnerable exploited seasonal workers. if we look at those memories – not just in that one country but across europe, north and south – we have to understand that there are many good employers of seasonal workers who are not exploited, but there are many vulnerable exploited seasonal workers. so it is with great pride that i can tell you that many in this chamber today – my colleagues who worked with me as shadows on this dossier within the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), and my co-rapporteurs in the committee on employment and social affairs, sergio cofferati first and here alejandro cercas alonso, as well as the commission, the council, the greek, lithuanian and irish presidencies – all did a really important piece of work to ensure that since the treaty of lisbon we have the first legal migration dossier as part of that package. we should be proud of that, because although it will not cure all the problems of vulnerable seasonal workers and exploitation that we see repeatedly across the european union, we have broken a barrier, and we have done it with great consensus – an almost unanimous vote in the libe committee, across the political spectrum. what have we tried to do? we have tried to say to the good employers of seasonal workers: carry on doing what you are doing. but we have said to bad employers: you must have minimum standards to protect seasonal workers but also to increase productivity and to harmonise the communities in which you live. so this report – which has been praised even by the un, which noted with optimism that the seasonal workers directive could have a positive effect in tackling the exploitation of seasonal workers – will have some very important wins that we had in our trialogues and in our negotiations: the right of seasonal workers to adequate accommodation at affordable costs and according to national procedures and practices. this means an end to the cardboard cities that we saw in rosarno for those who enter under this directive. all seasonal workers will be entitled to a change of employer at least once during their stay. now, these are rights given to seasonal workers which mean that they are not just paper rights, but actually give some flexibility which many have said is essential for workers to be treated not just as commodities but as human beings with some flexibility. there is a strong article on equal treatment that builds and improves upon the text of the single permit directive. in particular, there is new text providing protection against dismissal or adverse treatment as a result of a complaint being made against the employer. again, this is about lifting our standards to what we expect within the european union for decent work and building on the good work which came before us. where an employer has been found to exploit seasonal workers we have introduced a new article on sanctions, including the right to compensation for the seasonal worker if his or her permit is withdrawn due to the actions of the employer. employers will be permitted to extend the contract of a seasonal worker once within the maximum duration permitted. all of these measures were fought for very hard in an area which is very sensitive – immigration – at a time of austerity. we – and all of my colleagues here in the chamber today who worked with me very hard – understand that decent work is something which is inextricably linked to the values of the european union and to our values within the european union. that is why i consider this to be a very important measure today. sensible and fair rights for workers and a piece of legislation focusing on managing migration is a refreshing change. i hope, with the vote on this piece of legislation, that it will not be the end of our migration journey. i hope that when we talk about illegal immigration and the negative stories that we look at seasonal workers’ protection and that we understand that working together we can improve the lives of migrants, as well as the lives of the eu workers they are working with, and we can improve the local communities they are working within. decent work improves lives for all of us within the european union because civilised standards are the values that we live for within the european union. that is why we are here and that is why this is one small step forward for all of us within the european union.
we now continue with the debate on the report by claude moraes (a7-0428/2013).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, on this day ten years ago, 23 chinese women and men died while working as cockle pickers in morecombe bay in england. it was first thought that they were illegal seasonal workers, but in fact they were victims of a forced-labour human trafficking gang. the conditions they lived and worked under were harsh and threatening. their gang masters did not help them when the high tide came in and swamped them, and all but one drowned. as a former home office minister in the uk, i know the close link between exploitation and seasonal work. whilst many employers are good and considerate, there is a risk that vulnerable people – society’s poorest people – will be exploited. foreign gang masters have exploited migrant workers on british soil, sending profits back to their homelands. i welcome the aims of this report. all migrant workers, seasonal and regular, should be treated decently and fairly. we will only eradicate the risk of exploitation and the practice of forced labour by raising standards throughout the eu.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, for the first time in my life i must congratulate the rapporteur. i know that this seems surreal coming from a member of ukip, but i really do think that my british colleague is on to something here. work permits, rights of residence: seems perfectly good stuff to me. in fact it sounds like the ukip manifesto. however, where the report falls down is that these sensible proposals only apply to third-country nationals who want to come to the eu for seasonal work. my proposal is that it should apply to all citizens within the eu but, sadly, eu freedom of movement, which is supported by all the british political parties except my own, prevents this from happening. at the moment in the uk we have 2.4 million people unemployed. that is less than some of the other countries within the eu, but it is still an appalling statistic. indeed, worryingly, we have 20% youth unemployment and in some parts of my constituency, such as salford, it is running at up to 40%. many of these young people cannot find jobs because the employment market has been saturated by a huge influx of eastern european workers who are prepared to work for less money. the way to solve this problem is by applying mr moraes’ report to the whole of the eu, and then we can get back to controlling our own borders. but of course his own party, the labour party, would never support this. the european elections which are coming later this year are going to be dominated by the issue of immigration, and i am happy to say that my party, ukip, is the only political party in britain which has a firm, but fair, sensible policy in this area.
mr president, as we have heard, my group also welcomes the directive and the work of the rapporteur and the negotiating team, and we thoroughly agree with what has been said about the importance of decent work. i would also like to explain to my confused uk colleague that the uk is actually not signing up to this directive, so some of what was said simply does not apply in this case. but in terms of the important sectors of the workforce listed here, one of which is agriculture, we go to a lot of effort to produce food in the european union and we are rightly concerned about food waste, yet we have seen a situation where it can be left to rot in the fields because we cannot get a local workforce necessary to complete the harvest. that applies even in some member states with high unemployment rates and high regional rates. as people have said, there is a long-standing concern here about the conditions for workers in seasonal work, whether eu nationals or third-country nationals. the risk of exploitation, the lack of effective inspection and redress and, at times, an unclear migration status are also a barrier to protection. this gives that clear set of social rights – including accommodation, which has been a major issue and where we have seen people expected to live in horrendous conditions and then charged effectively the whole of their income for it. like others, we would like to have seen more within this directive, but we think it is important for the possibilities and the protection it offers. we look forward to its full and effective implementation.
mr president, if you start with the premise that admitting seasonal workers was an economic necessity and would happen anyway, there might be something to be said for at least part of this report. the conditions of work of the seasonal workers in rosarno, where we went in 2010, were truly appalling. allowing those sorts of conditions, wages and accommodation to be tolerated would be inhumane and would encourage employers to hire third-country workers before home or eu workers. however, allowing third-country workers to apply from within the eu for seasonal work would reward illegal migrants and encourage the entry of more. allowing people admitted for another purpose to apply would invite abuse of the admission system. nine to twelve months is more than a season. i should like to see the evidence for the conclusion that national and other eu workers would be unwilling to take seasonal work. many long-term unemployed would be pleased to have paid work with accommodation provided in their own country, or at least in their own continent.
rapporteur. - mr president, the applause for ms malmström is very well deserved. she made a personal commitment to this first post-lisbon-treaty part of the immigration package. i would like to thank her for sustaining that commitment every step of the way. this was a very big job – it took more than three-and-a-half years – even though, when it comes to one swift vote it does not feel like it. i would like to thank, in particular, those members who spoke in the debate – some of them have left, but one or two are still here – and those members who have actually read the proposal and who understand all the work that went into it to ensure flexibility for member states, on the one hand, while, on the other, retaining all our european union values to protect the vulnerability of seasonal workers. this was a very difficult thing to do and yet, over those three-and-a-half years, working across political groups, we did it. that means that our shadows, whom i did not thank at the beginning –mr mulder, if he is listening, ms ernst, mr kirkhope, who is not here, ms sargentini, whom i had already thanked, and mr cercas alejandro – spent hours and hours trialogues. i would also like to thank our excellent staff – who are not normally thanked and at whom i am looking right now – and my own staff. these people too spend hours in trialogues, and i do not think that this is appreciated outside the house. it took three-and-a-half years to produce a sensitive proposal that will, i believe, work in what is a very sensitive area. maintaining our values is a job well done, and i thank all my colleagues who made it happen. i look forward to the vote.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. (the sitting was suspended at 11.35 and resumed at 12.00) written statements (rule 149)
madam president, it is kind of you to announce it as being adopted before taking my point of order! i want to request that this calendar be referred back to the conference of presidents. last month, i tabled an amendment, with 40 other meps, to the 2015 calendar. we wanted to reduce the length of the strasbourg sessions from four to three days. president schulz ruled that amendment inadmissible. i disputed that ruling, and the plenary agreed to defer the vote for one month so he could obtain legal advice. this he has done and he has disclosed that advice. i thank him for that, but the advice states that the amendment is inadmissible only because it did not contain a justification; in other words, my amendment would be admissible if it contained a justification. no members were advised before the tabling of amendments that a justification was required. it is unjust to rule amendments inadmissible for failing to comply with a requirement that nobody knows about. i want this referred back so i can re-table the amendment with a justification, and then the house can decide on its merits. (applause)
madam president, this is the second time that you have ignored the rules of procedure during these votes. on the calendar vote, despite the fact that at the last plenary session we were able to move a motion to defer the vote, or indeed to postpone it, you ignored that rule of procedure. you ignored the rule of procedure on the request from the rapporteur to speak before the vote. you cannot allow your personal feelings and your personal prejudices to interfere in the course of the proceedings. you are supposed to be an impartial chair, regulating the procedure in this plenary. to just ignore the rules of procedure whenever they do not suit you is frankly quite disgraceful. i hope that you are ashamed of yourself and that you will reflect on your conduct in this vote, because i think this has been the worst display of chairmanship that we have seen in this plenary in the last ten years.
madam president, an e-mail was sent to the presidency at 4.15 p.m. yesterday afternoon saying that the rapporteur wanted the floor. regarding the calendar vote, i am not arguing about the ruling, but i am arguing about your refusal to take a vote on the referral back on the matter. in the last plenary we were allowed to refer the matter back. in this plenary you did not allow it.
madam president, can i say that you have acted in accordance with the rules and in accordance with the information that you have at your disposal and i am pleased at the way you have dealt with this. i also want to reflect on the fact that whenever there is woman in the chair, the shameful bullying by the right wing of this parliament always enters into force and, as a uk member of this parliament, i wish to completely disassociate myself from the shameful, partisan, anti-european comments of mr callanan. (applause)
madam president, this report poses more questions than it answers. when researching the issue of undocumented migrants, i found this definition: ‘an undocumented migrant is a person without a residence permit authorising them to regularly or legitimately stay in the country of their destination.’ on the basis of this definition, i have a number of concerns about the nicolai report. if the eu gives incentives and provides rewards to illegal immigrants, such as healthcare, education, training, housing and employment, we are indirectly and irresponsibly supporting a system of illegal immigration which is unsafe and which leaves women vulnerable to being exploited. what message are we sending to those third-country nationals who play by the rules and enter our member states legitimately? we are telling them that it does not matter whether one enters europe via legal or illegal channels, as one will have the same rights and entitlements. for these reasons i cannot support the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. undocumented women migrants are among the most vulnerable migrants. this report highlights the fact that basic human rights demand the provision of health care and social housing while their residential status is determined as well as of assistance to victims of persecution, violence or trafficking. i want wales to be a country of sanctuary which offers protection to those in need.
in writing. - this report deals with an issue of increasing importance. human trafficking is a major violation of human rights and we must do everything possible to counter it. unfortunately, in the uk, the problems of vulnerable women who have been abused are exacerbated by an increasingly xenophobic press and coalition government.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative, non-legislative report because it calls on the member states and the commission to recognise undocumented women migrants explicitly as a vulnerable group exposed to trafficking and to discrimination and exploitation on the labour market and when it comes to healthcare. member states are called upon to ratify the un international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families, to implement the return directive fully and to postpone removal.
in writing. - i could not support this report today, because, whilst it does raise some very important issues relating to human trafficking, sexual abuse in detention centres and the conditions in which children are kept, i believe migration policy should remain the responsibility of individual member states.
in writing. - i welcome this own initiative report calling for better protection for undocumented women migrants. many of these women are vulnerable and are often experience sexual violence, exploitation, forced labour and restricted access to healthcare. the report calls on the european commission and member states to recognise the vulnerability of this group in society, who can be the victims of trafficking and severe discrimination. undocumented women are subject to physical abuse and because of their legal status they are unable to seek help from the police, hospitals or shelters. this means that their exploitation continues and leads to dire situations where women are abused by dangerous landlords who abuse them in exchange for providing them with a home. i support calls to strengthen the protection of fundamental rights for undocumented migrants and, finally, i agree that alternatives to severe detention centres need to be found to avoid physical abuse of female detainees.
madam president, seasonal workers are clearly meeting a need, where local workers are either not available or simply do not want to work. this issue clearly feeds into a larger debate over migration, which we, as politicians, have to address. we have to address the concerns of our citizens over numbers and any potential abuse of our social security systems. so let us welcome those who come to work. let us welcome those who come to contribute to our society in a positive way and let us also welcome moves to address any concerns of our citizens over migration in terms of numbers and the effect on local populations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it aims to prevent the further exploitation of low-waged, seasonal workers. undercutting is not only damaging to those workers getting paid a very low wage, it also damages the workings of the single market and the whole labour market of the eu. the uk has not opted-in to this piece of legislation.
in writing. - as the uk has opted out of this proposed directive on the conditions of entry and residence of non-eu workers who are coming to the eu for the purpose of short term seasonal work, i chose to abstain in the vote on the new provisions.
in writing. - i supported today’s report, which means that migrants entering the eu as ‘seasonal workers’ will have equal rights and pay as local workers. rules now mean that eu countries will be allowed to issue an entry permit to a migrant seasonal worker for up to 9 months, on condition that adequate accommodation and living standards are met. these new measures will prevent workers from being undercut in their own country but also mean that migrant workers will be treated with respect and that their fundamental rights will be respected. i believe this legislation will encourage social inclusion and will benefit eu workers currently being undercut as a result of the exploitation of migrant workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to lift the current ban on the import of big-eye tuna from bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone. this ban had originally been recommended because of concerns over stock numbers. however, these concerns have been sufficiently dealt with and the european parliament now feels the ban can be lifted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as the tccat (international convention for the conservation of atlantic tunas) has advised the eu that the previous ban is no longer relevant, so trade in this tuna fish can now continue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this parliament report which concerns the repeal of regulation (ec) no 827/2004 prohibiting imports of atlantic bigeye tuna products originating in bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, georgia and sierra leone.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that we renew the eu’s fishing agreement with gabon. the eu has encouraged the majority of catches to be landed in gabonese ports wherever possible, and i support this. funding of this sort is important in providing eu consumers with fresh, sustainable fish and infrastructure and income to the gabonese economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i support the growing relationship between the eu and gabon through the catches taken in gabonese waters, helping their economic development.
in writing. - i was unable to support this protocol at the vote today, as i have some reservations about the agreement with regard to value for money and the powers granted to the european commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an important document in the relations between the eu and an overseas territory. i support the report calling not for more money to be sent to a territory such as greenland but for this money to be better distributed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i support stronger and continued human and social development programmes between the eu and greenland and denmark.
in writing. - i support this revised proposal for a new partnership agreement between the eu, greenland and denmark which will facilitate consultation and policy dialogue in a number of areas of shared interest, including energy, environment, climate change, natural resources, maritime transport, research and innovation and arctic issues.
in writing. - this report, which reacts to a commission green paper, warns against eu harmonisation of insurance coverage of natural and man-made disasters and recommends that this issue remain a national competence and be dealt with proportionately. consequently i voted in favour.
in writing. - the report on insurance of natural and man-made disasters arises in response to a european commission green paper on the subject. i believe the report has taken the right approach in respecting the principle of subsidiarity by arguing for the insurance of natural and man-made disasters to remain a national competence. as the report makes clear, natural and man-made disasters need different types of insurance and are covered by two different insurance markets. attempting to combine the two under an eu umbrella could potentially create overlapping and contradictory liability rules. i support the report’s calls for member states to engage in the exchange of best practice. my own constituency has been particularly badly hit by flooding in recent months, and i would endorse any efforts that allowed local authorities in northern ireland to learn from the experiences of other flood-affected member states. i believe people ought to take preventative steps to guard against such unfortunate instances, and the report addresses issues of individual responsibility by encouraging local people to take out adequate insurance cover.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it protects eu citizens from unexpected events and helps develop a network for information exchange between member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which identifies the disadvantages of eu harmonisation of insurance coverage of natural and man-made disasters. whilst it acknowledges that lessons can be learned through the exchange of best practice, it clearly recommends that this issue should remain a national competence.
in writing. - i supported this report, which highlights the need to ensure that citizens are protected and knowledgeable about insurance policies. there are different levels of risk in europe, with different areas having different risks associated to them when it comes to disasters, and i am happy that the report recognises that insurance policies must reflect these differences. with the recent flooding in my constituency of wales, i am acutely aware of the need for consumers to be given clear information about the insurance policies available to them so that they can then make informed choices, and i am pleased that this report ensures this.
in writing. - heavy rains and floods have besieged the uk over the last month. southern parts of the uk have had their wettest january since records began more than 100 years ago. it is expected that the cost for damages will run into hundreds of millions of pounds. however, there is no amount of money that can compensate for the hardship people have had to endure during this period. my thoughts are with these families. member states face different natural disasters, for example parts of southern europe are known for wildfires. each member state must estimate what the biggest natural or man-made dangers they face are, and then decide for themselves on how to prevent and minimise dangers. insurance packages must be fit for purpose. it is vital that individuals and companies are able to make well-informed choices when buying or providing local insurance packages. i voted in favour of this report as it rightly respects proportionality, and calls for insurance to remain a competence of the individual member states.
in writing. - the empl and econ committees wanted to initiate consultation with the european economic and social committee (eesc) on the subject of the structure and organisation of social dialogue in the context of a genuine economic and monetary union (emu). the organisation of social dialogue is primarily a member state competence reflecting different specificities and traditions in each and every country. i disapprove of the stated aims and voted against the report.
in writing. - i welcome the resolution on behalf of the socialists and democrats group, which highlights the importance of developing and deepening economic and trade links between the eu and russia. i support the remarks in the resolution regarding the protection of human rights and democratic principles and am concerned about the anti-lgbti legislation that has been introduced. i echo calls for the member states to increase their support for defenders of human rights in russia and welcome eu action in this area. furthermore, i support calls in the resolution to improve dialogue on issues of foreign policy, specifically the strengthening of joint cooperation for syria and iran. finally, i recognise the importance attached to encouraging mobility for students, teachers and researchers in order to build further partnerships between the eu and russia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which confirms the appointment of ms lautenschläger to the post of vice-chair of the new single supervisory mechanism.
in writing. - this agreement with the swiss competition authorities is largely straightforward and reflects the high level of integration between the eu and swiss economies. the agreement formalises cooperation, as in the case of similar agreements with countries like the us and japan. i voted for it because it is good for british trade with switzerland.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is important that we keep similar standards within the european economic area, even with states such as switzerland, which are not members of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a cooperation agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation, which outlines provisions to regulate the discussion and transmission of information between the european commission and the swiss competition commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution and its recommendation that this agreement with switzerland should be used as a model for future bilateral ‘second generation’ cooperation agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of swift authorisation of the arms trade treaty by the eu member states. the treaty establishes common international standards for the regulation of international transfers in conventional weapons and aims to prevent illicit trade in these weapons. better regulation is in the interest of wales and all other nations and swift authorisation is key to the success of such a treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is very important for the european parliament to pass this report, so as to allow member states to ratify the arms trade treaty. this treaty has been coordinated by the un and is a crucial step forward in the control of the global arms trade. as a labour mep, i am privileged to have been the rapporteur of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it increases transparency in the arms trade and adds further security and precautionary measures before proposed arms trades take place.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft council decision which authorises member states to ratify, in the interests of the european union, the arms trade treaty, adopted by the general assembly of the un on 2 april 2013.
in writing. - today i was pleased to vote in favour of the arms trade treaty, which is a un agreement on regulating the trade in conventional weapons. this is the first global agreement on conventional weapons and represents ten years of negotiations between governments and ngos. i welcome the increased calls for transparency in the trade in arms and the requirement for governments to evaluate any proposed arms trade for the likelihood that the weapons will be involved in genocide or terrorism. this treaty is a positive move for the protection of human rights and the enhancement of global security. i hope that this agreement will achieve the 50 signatories required from states for ratification.
in writing. - mr president, it is right that this parliament is today debating the proposed arms trade treaty, which has as part of its scope the aim of eradicating illicit trade in weapons. however, for many living in my own constituency, northern ireland, this discussion and this treaty will serve to remind innocent victims of the role played by the irish government in founding and arming terrorists of the provisional ira. the first minister of northern ireland recently called on the irish government to face up to its ‘hidden history’. i repeat that call. it is time, for instance, to open files relating to the arms trial of 1970 for public scrutiny. both the government and politicians in the republic of ireland have been quick to point the finger at the british state but wish to draw a blind over uncomfortable episodes of history within that state. we must also not forget those who have been injured or lost loved ones as a result of the illicit and unjust trade of weapons. they deserve robust support, but most of all an up-front apology by the government of the irish republic.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i support the arms trade treaty, which establishes common international standards for the regulation of trade in conventional weapons and aims to prevent illicit trade in these weapons. better regulation is in the interest of wales and all other eu countries, especially given the fact that eu member states hold 26 % of the market in this field.
in writing. - i abstained in this vote on the resolution on the arms trade treaty, as, whilst i believe that this resolution addresses some important issues surrounding international trade in conventional weapons, i have concerns regarding its possible encroachment upon the competences of the member states.
madam president, unlike my colleagues who have just spoken, i recommended that we vote against this report. this has taken just over five years. i am vice-chair of the committee on international trade; i voted in the committee; and i would say to mr higgins that, in fact, there was no consensus in the committee, so he is wrong there. to ms angelilli, who referred to the need to ‘protect our markets’, i would point out that we live in a global economy where goods are traded around the world. if we are not careful, we will end up as a dickensian society. there is sufficient legislation in place: the commission already has the powers to implement anti-dumping legislation where products are sold in the eu at less than the cost of production or less than their cost in the country from which they come. protectionism only ends up destroying the industries we are trying to protect. i would like to make one last point. we are in serious negotiations with countries like the united states, and we have negotiated with a number of others, so i would leave you with this thought: i wonder what they think. does this send a good signal? europe is protecting itself against everything.
in writing. - i voted in favour of sending this report back to committee for informal negotiations with the council because the core aim of this modernisation exercise is to increase the transparency, accountability and speed of the tdi process. the proposals adopted by inta are moderate and seek to level the playing field for eu producers while maintaining predictability for european importers.
in writing. - the commission’s modernisation of trade defence instruments (mtdi) package will revise existing eu anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations, including a number of non-regulatory changes. coming from a constituency in which small and medium-sized enterprises form the backbone of the local economy, i am supportive of moves to ensure that smes in northern ireland can benefit from increased access to eu trade defence tools. for too long, initiating anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations has been the sole preserve of large companies that can afford them. this report, and amendments to it, makes several useful proposals in terms of more assistance to smes in the form of a helpdesk, and the ability of sectors largely made up of smes to impose higher duties on imports of dumped and subsidised goods. nevertheless, i believe the report is ultimately an imbalanced one due to some less useful proposals. for instance, i cannot support the proposed limitations on the use of the lesser duty rule, which would excessively increase the level of duties imposed. moreover, the proposals would grant the european commission greater ex-officio powers to counter tit-for-tat retaliation, which are both ineffective and counterproductive if industry has not lodged a complaint.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i believe in better transparency, accountability and speed in the trade defence instruments process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it was a strong report on the proposed updates to eu legislation on the technical measures needed to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i believe it is important to follow the rules of the common fisheries policy, as set out initially in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which considers the technical adjustments to legislation relating to fisheries policies, which are required in light of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and all the reports contained in this harmonisation package. it establishes rules to improve the safety of consumers and professionals, contribute to reducing the number and seriousness of accidents and harmonise safety rules in all the member states while ensuring the free movement of products within the eu. these reports will help to maintain or improve high levels of consumer protection. this is of course of concern to my constituents in wales who work in such circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a step towards the completion of the eu single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and of economic operators, as well as an equal assessment of notified bodies throughout the eu market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and all the reports contained in this harmonisation package. it establishes rules to improve the safety of consumers and professionals, contribute to reducing the number and seriousness of accidents, and harmonise safety rules in all the member states while ensuring the free movement of products within the eu. these reports will help to maintain or improve high levels of consumer protection. this is of course of concern to my constituents in wales who work in such circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it is a step towards the completion of the eu single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and of economic operators, as well as an equal assessment of notified bodies throughout the eu market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and all the reports contained in this harmonisation package. it establishes rules to improve the safety of consumers and professionals, contribute to reducing the number and seriousness of accidents and harmonise safety rules in all the member states while ensuring the free movement of products within the eu. these reports will help to maintain or improve high levels of consumer protection. this is, of course, of concern to my constituents in wales that work in such circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and all the reports contained in this harmonisation package. it establishes rules to improve the safety of consumers and professionals, contribute to reducing the number and seriousness of accidents and harmonise safety rules in all the member states while ensuring the free movement of products within the eu. these reports will help to maintain or improve high levels of consumer protection. this is, of course, of concern to my constituents in wales that work in such circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and all the reports contained in this harmonisation package. it establishes rules to improve the safety of consumers and professionals, contribute to reducing the number and seriousness of accidents and harmonise safety rules in all the member states while ensuring the free movement of products within the eu. these reports will help to maintain or improve high levels of consumer protection. this is, of course, of concern to my constituents in wales that work in such circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and all the reports contained in this harmonisation package. it establishes rules to improve the safety of consumers and professionals, contribute to reducing the number and seriousness of accidents and harmonise safety rules in all the member states while ensuring the free movement of products within the eu. these reports will help to maintain or improve high levels of consumer protection. this is, of course, of concern to my constituents in wales that work in such circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and all the reports contained in this harmonisation package. it establishes rules to improve the safety of consumers and professionals, contribute to reducing the number and seriousness of accidents and harmonise safety rules in all the member states while ensuring the free movement of products within the eu. these reports will help to maintain or improve high levels of consumer protection. this is, of course, of concern to my constituents in wales that work in such circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and all the reports contained in this harmonisation package. it establishes rules to improve the safety of consumers and professionals, contribute to reducing the number and seriousness of accidents and harmonise safety rules in all the member states while ensuring the free movement of products within the eu. these reports will help to maintain or improve high levels of consumer protection. this is, of course, of concern to my constituents in wales that work in such circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. by aligning these product directives to the new legislative framework, i hope that we can streamline product legislation so that it is easier to interpret, increase the confidence of both producers and consumers and reduce the amount of non-compliant and unsafe products on our markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report that will see air passengers given better rights of compensation when faced with delays over 3 hours long. like many eu citizens, my constituents in wales frequently travel by air and deserve the utmost protection when faced with travel delays as well as when airlines go out of business. i am also pleased that the report contains a proposal from my parliamentary group to create independent mediation bodies to resolve conflicts between passengers and airlines.
in writing. - the reasons that the british conservative delegation voted against this report concerned the issue of the status of gibraltar. first, while we welcomed the deletion of the reference to the 1987 joint declaration (amendment 174), we believed that this regrettably did not go far enough. in 2006 the governments of the united kingdom, the kingdom of spain and gibraltar concluded the cordoba agreement, ensuring that gibraltar and its airport were part of the single market in aviation. gibraltar is a british overseas territory and part of the european union. she is represented here in the european parliament by three of my conservative colleagues from the south-west of england. however, my amendment 171 included a reference to the ‘2006 cordoba agreement’ (signed by all parties) which was regrettably defeated. the whole point of submitting this amendment, twice, in both the transport committee and this plenary, concerned the spanish governments refusal to abide by this agreement, frequently asserting that it is not valid. we believe this is solely for political reasons and this has led to huge problems taking place at the gibraltar/spanish border, more often than not affecting both gibraltarian and spanish citizens. this behaviour is discriminatory and wholly unacceptable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will give consumers stronger protection when they fly. airlines will be obliged to keep passengers informed about their situation if their flight has been delayed or cancelled, as well as informing customers of their rights. the role of enforcement bodies will also be strengthened thanks to this legislation.
in writing. - the revision of existing eu air passenger rights legislation has its basis in two recent developments: firstly, the travel chaos caused by the icelandic ash cloud in 2010 and, secondly, more recent judgements by the european court of justice. the report attempts to strike a delicate balance between protecting consumers and the competitiveness of european airlines. there are some promising proposals in relation to the former, with clearer rules on how to deal with passenger complaints, faster information made available to passengers (no later than 30 minutes after initial departure time) and an increase in hand luggage allowances. however, there are aspects of the report that i believe could upset the delicate balance it strives for, and would actually serve to work against consumers if implemented. for instance, the decrease in the length of delay for which compensation can be claimed from 5 to 3 hours would actually incentivise airlines to cancel flights to minimise compensation costs, resulting in greater inconvenience for passengers. crucially, the report does not remove a clause suspending air passenger rights legislation to gibraltar which, as an eu airport, is a completely discriminatory exclusion. therefore, i cannot support the report as it currently stands.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i support better-protected and fairer rights for air passengers.
in writing. - i am disappointed that i was unable to vote in favour of this report on the revision of eu legislation on air passenger rights, as it contains a number of important measures to strengthen the rights of passengers which i do support. however, my reason for not voting in favour of this report relates to the status of gibraltar and the failure to adequately recognise this within the report. in 2006, the uk, spain and gibraltar concluded the ‘cordoba agreement’ to ensure that gibraltar and its airport were part of the single market, and therefore it should be included in eu aviation legislation. i am disappointed to see that my group’s efforts to overturn this discriminatory exclusion have not been successful today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which will further strengthen air passengers’ rights when flying within the eu. eu citizens already benefit from some of the best passenger rights in the world, such as compensation if they are denied boarding or their flight is delayed, but airlines have routinely exploited loopholes in the legislation and currently only around 2% of passengers receive compensation when they are entitled to it. these revised rules aim to improve enforcement, clarify grey areas and introduce some new rights. for example, the legislation provides a much clearer definition of when an airline is considered responsible for a delay or cancellation, and specifies that a ‘technical fault’ cannot be a valid reason to not pay out. passengers will also be entitled to compensation if their flight is delayed by more than 3 hours, not just if it is cancelled. today’s vote confirms that meps are ready to stand up for eu consumers in the face of airlines which have failed to guarantee their rights.
in writing. - i voted against this report on insolvency proceedings, because i have concerns about some of the measures proposed, in particular relating to out of court proceedings, which i feel could hamper the ability of companies to have access to cost-effective and efficient routes to recovery.
blue-card question. – mr verhofstadt, you are very articulate and you make a very strong case for sanctions. i do not disagree with what you are saying, but my big question is whether that would include the very wealthy oligarchs who are bankrolling the party of the regions of yanukovych and who have very large assets – for instance in my city, london, or in vienna, or through registered companies in the european union, like in latvia? that is the only way we will really hit the regime hard, by going for their money as well, even if, of course, they are not all necessarily government officials.
mr president, i believe strongly in ukraine’s eu aspirations and i have looked on with shock at the country’s recent descent into political chaos. i do not, of course, support violent protests, but the evidence overwhelmingly points to a popular impeachment of the government and intended peaceful activism which cannot be represented by a few rogue ultranationalist thuggish elements. rather, the shooting and abductions visited on some of the protestors signify, if proven, a serious indictment of the security services, the titushki agents provocateurs and the yanukovych government controlling them all. yanukovych made a grave error in snubbing the eu and rejecting the dcfta at vilnius, but he has compounded it since with many others. the solution must now be to call elections quickly so that the people can express their will and the country’s future geo-political orientation. i call on the government to free yulia tymoshenko and other jailed activists and remind ukraine of its international obligations to protect the right to peaceful protest and not to become another belarus. otherwise it will face serious sanctions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in a very serious and indeed tragic situation i do not wish to seem frivolous, but would it not be simpler for the commission just to sign a cheque and be done with it, whenever france wants to help one of its former colonies? instead, we have gone through this costly and unnecessary charade of creating the csdp with all its elaborate structures – pale imitations of nato – and pretence of battlegroups which never have and are never likely to fight any battles. chad, guinea, niger, djibouti, mali, all csdp missions; now we have the central african republic. it is difficult to see what exactly the particular security threat to europe is from events in this country 5 000 kilometres away, twice as far from paris as moscow. there is violence and human need. there may well be a migration problem, but that says something about the security of our borders, rather than a need for military forces, and actually, it is the african union that has the responsibility for intervening militarily in africa. that is why the au is deploying 6 000 troops to the central african republic. i can understand how insertion of a small professional military force to secure an airfield, to facilitate humanitarian aid and the introduction of those african union troops might be helpful, but that is well within the capacity of french armed forces, and if they need some additional airlift then britain will give a hand. after all, we have useful bilateral military treaties with france and the americans will be helpful with overhead surveillance capabilities. the december european council put an end to ambitions for a european army and instead emphasised national responsibility in military matters, recognised nato’s key role and called for the eu to focus on its civil contribution to crisis management. it is time for this parliament and the commission to catch up.
madam president, the ethnic and religious conflict is obviously the most pressing problem, but in a way it distracts us from the underlying long-term problems of poverty, a lack of economic development and a fragile civic infrastructure. we must understand the nature of these problems if they are to be solved. now these problems are not just the product of the decades following independence or, for that matter, of the colonial experience. despite being rich in natural resources and having favourable agricultural conditions, the car is one of the world’s poorest countries. we might ask why the area of the central african republic, and the rest of sub-saharan africa for that matter, did not develop the instruments of technology and transport and use them to spread the fruits of their discoveries, learning and creativity throughout the world in the way that europe did. if there has been, and continues to be, a hindrance to development it must be identified and addressed. when we address that question honestly we might be ready to start solving africa’s problems.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner füle said the syrian crisis has profoundly affected its neighbours. well, last november i visited kurdistan in northern iraq to see for myself the refugee camps that they have set up to provide shelter for over 230 000 men, women and children fleeing from the bloody civil war in syria. i believe we owe a great debt of gratitude to president massoud barzani of kurdistan and to the kurdish people. despite the suffering of the kurds under saddam hussein, when over 180 000 were massacred in the genocidal al-anfal campaign, nevertheless they have maintained their tradition of welcoming and sheltering refugees whom they regard as their brothers and sisters in need. hundreds of thousands of christians, turkmens, shabaks and other ethnic refugees fled to kurdistan during the insurgency in the rest of iraq, and sadly that situation is now worsening and civil war, i believe, is imminent in iraq. it is against that background that the kurds have opened their borders to give shelter to the refugees from syria, and we must provide the krg with all possible assistance to enable them to deal with this new and overwhelming tide of starving and exhausted people. one of the first things we must do, commissioner, is open an eeas consular office in erbil. president barzani called for this when he spoke in the committee on foreign affairs two weeks ago in brussels. it would be a highly significant gesture of support for kurdistan if baroness ashton followed the example of many member states, which have themselves opened consular offices in erbil.
madam president, unlike the others in this debate i have gone twice to war-torn syria to see at first hand what is really going on there. so i can tell you that the majority of the refugees do not want or need to come to europe. they just want the west to leave the syrian army to finish off the islamist terror gangs from whom the christians, alawites and moderate sunnis fled for their lives. then they will be able to go home. the wahhabi minority should go to their gulf state sponsors, where they too would be at home. i can also tell you that, having used the cia to help the rebels destroy so much of syria, american and french corporations are already in contact with damascus to negotiate multi-billion-dollar reconstruction contracts. while the eu and mr farage unite to import a wave of violently islamist asylum seekers to already poor and stressed parts of our constituencies, american and french companies are chasing profits for big business, as usual.
mr president, i of course want to associate myself with the remarks made by my colleagues about the atrocities being carried out in syria. but i want to use my minute to draw particular attention to the situation of palestinians in syria. as with so many conflicts, the palestinian people are being disproportionately affected. almost all of the 540 000 palestinian refugees in syria are in need of emergency assistance and are entirely reliant on the un relief and works assistance. in particular, the situation for the 18 000 palestinians in the yarmouk refugee camp is desperate and shocking. the camp has been under siege since july, with limited medical and food supplies being allowed to enter. the conditions are reported to be atrocious and more than 50 people have now died of starvation. unrwa was allowed limited access on 30 january to distribute food and medication, but its work was halted when gunfire began nearby. only 1 000 of the 18 000 refugees received food parcels, and that was only enough to last them ten days. the situation in yarmouk is absolutely untenable and in danger of becoming a massive humanitarian crisis. i of course deplore the actions of the assad regime and welcome the fact that the european commission and high representative are continuing to try and find a safe, humanitarian corridor so that unrwa can continue its refugee work in that area.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 6 february 2014. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on syrian refugees arriving at the bulgarian borders (2014/2550(rsp)).
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in egypt (2014/2532(rsp)).
madam president, i will focus on human rights abuses in russia: the discrimination, violence and breaches of human rights perpetrated by putin are entirely unacceptable. attacks on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are equally unacceptable. i trust our athletes to speak out at the winter olympics in sochi, but i condemn sponsors like mcdonalds, coca-cola and visa for their continued support of the event. i will boycott these sponsors, starting now with visa. madam president, not in my name! (the speaker cut in two his visa card) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i accept the honourable member’s question, but actually it is statement. can i stop talking about anything about sex or sexual discrimination? i will never stop talking about discrimination visited upon others by people who should know better. i will never allow the tyranny of a majority to oppress a minority. i would remind the honourable member, coming from a country that lived under soviet domination and repression, that the defence of civil liberties and human rights is paramount and is finally the test of a civilised, functioning democracy. i will not stop talking.
madam president, president vladimir putin appeared on global television this morning cuddling a leopard cub, trying to portray the image of himself as some sort of animal lover. meanwhile, on the streets of sochi, thousands of stray dogs are being shot this week. he knows that. the blood of these helpless animals will stain the snows of the winter olympics. he is not only presiding over the abuse of human rights, he is presiding over the abuse of animal rights, and if he wants further integration and further cooperation with the eu he should recognise that in the lisbon treaty we hold animal rights very dear indeed.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, once again, tonight i am proud to present a report to the european parliament, standing alongside the european commission, to recommend an immediate start to eu accession talks with skopje. having been graciously asked by the european commissioner to help broker the 1 march agreement, i also take great pride in seeing the competing parties able to find consensus on the electoral code, the resumption in the dialogue between the government and journalists, and this year’s budget having been agreed through a completely normal parliamentary process. in my resolution, you will find critical proposals: that the commitments must be honoured in full, for greater efforts in relation to integrated education, my concerns about the continuing risk to good inter-ethnic relations and about perceptions of selective justice; but my main concern remains how to advance the accession process. as rapporteur, i want this european parliament to make a difference and, in doing so, to demonstrate that a difference can be made. that is why, this year, i propose that the european commission make this the first country in the region to be awarded functioning market economy status. this is a country rising up the index of economic freedom published in the wall street journal last month, ahead of no less than 13 countries which are already european union member states. yes, long-term unemployment and the quality of the justice system require further reforms, but the awarding of this status can help secure necessary foreign investment and present an opportunity entirely within the prerogative of the commission, to make a concrete step forward. mr president, on good neighbourly relations, i acknowledge support for the country’s eu accession, expressed by our former colleague, kristian vigenin, now bulgarian foreign minister, during his very important visit to skopje last month. i also very much welcome my private meeting this morning with greek foreign minister venizelos in advance of his own visit to skopje, and our constructive and respectful exchange on a series of ideas for moving the process forward, which i hope he may be able to pursue. a decade after a previous greek presidency convened the thessaloniki summit, which set out a european union perspective for all of the countries of the western balkans, this year’s presidency would seem to be the ideal time to renew that pledge for the country which is arguably most held up in the process. on the name issue, i have always sought to resist statements in parliament which might complicate the resolution of the dispute, but this year – after nearly twenty years of efforts – my report does, for the first time, cast doubt on the credibility of the un framework to resolve the name dispute. i hope all the actors involved will prove this wrong. in conclusion, i do not deflect the responsibilities on and in the country itself, but for this country the european parliament does call on all members... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think commissioner füle and the rapporteur, mrs pack, have fully brought out how our complaints about the fact that bosnia has hardly moved on in five years are having a real effect in the real economy. the failure to agree the identity card law has meant that babies could not get personal numbers, could not get passports, and a baby could not go to germany for medical treatment. bosnia has lost millions of euros in pre-accession grants because of a failure to set up the eu coordination mechanism. dairy and meat exports to the eu cannot happen because of the failure to agree to veterinary and sanitary inspections. so, with a weak legal system, corruption, organised crime and money laundering not tackled, it is no wonder that unemployment is 45% and there is very little direct foreign investment. these are real impacts that are being felt. like everybody else, i very much welcome the young people in the gallery, because one hopes for a bosnian spring, as it were. i mean, you have got to challenge – if i may be slightly rude and say – the bunch of old men running your country. you have got to call them to account. i was one of those who was very pleased to support tanja fajon in pushing for visa-free travel from bosnia to the schengen area – unfortunately not to the uk. we want you to have your horizons raised, to get inspiration from the rest of europe, to invigorate and inspire bosnian civil society, and to really push your institutions, your governments and your elected representatives to change your country, so that you will sooner rather than later... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i welcome the progress made by fyrom. however, there are still many outstanding concerns that need to be addressed: law and justice reform, economic development, human rights abuses and neighbourly relations need to be settled. it is also incorrect for fyrom to hijack history: putting up statues of alexander the great and claiming him as their own is historically incorrect. given the historical and cultural diversity of europe, these things are very important to get right. respecting member states is paramount. as i am sure alexander the great would have said: there is nothing impossible to him who will try. i urge fyrom to try: try to respect your neighbours, try to respect your citizens and try to respect history.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, female genital mutilation is a horrific and violent act committed against young girls, against children. you will hear today that approximately 500 000 girls as young as three are at risk in europe. in the united kingdom we estimate as many as 65 000 girls are at risk, most of whom live in my constituency of london. in the uk, fgm was criminalised in 1985, yet in the past 29 years there has not been one single prosecution. we in the united kingdom have started the fight to stop this barbaric practice. the leading london paper, the london evening standard, is in the forefront of this fight. by highlighting and informing the public of this practice, we can put a stop to it. i look to other meps to join me in the fight against this form of violence, of child abuse, not only today – the international day of zero tolerance to fgm – but every day. this week we put forward a resolution as a first step to stop fgm in the eu. in the next week, i will be holding a public hearing on the prevalence of fgm in europe. we will share information and data in a move towards eliminating this practice in all member states. next month, i am holding a public hearing in my constituency of london bringing together experts in this field. you are all welcome to join me at either or both events. we need to work in our member states to put forward a policy of zero tolerance. we need to support ngos who are working around the world to educate and approach communities, to inform them that this is not an acceptable practice. it is child abuse, and has no place in our society. the resolution this week is a call for action. today i ask you to join me in this action.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, today – 6 february – marks the tenth international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation. it is estimated that well over 3 000 women in ireland have been victims of fgm, despite the fact that the law prohibits it, and that thousands of girls and women across europe are at risk of undergoing the procedure, either illegally in europe or by being brought back to their parents’ country of origin. this is, without doubt, a barbaric and archaic practice which needs to stop. many people who are forced to undergo this procedure bleed to death or die of infections after being cut with dirty utensils. it involves removing and damaging healthy and normal female genital tissues, and hence interferes with the natural functions of girls’ and women’s bodies. the practice causes severe pain, and has several immediate and long-term health consequences, including difficulties in child birth. it can also cause damage to the child. those who survive the procedure have severe and lasting effects from infection. i praise those, such as the national network of migrant women living in ireland, for the work that they have done in this area, but i regret that the practice still takes place at all. obviously, the fact that we are still here discussing this means that not enough has been done. in my own constituency in the north of ireland, teachers are being warned to watch out for girls taking prolonged absences from school to visit their – or their families’ – countries of origin for fear that they are at risk of being mutilated. ireland has done well to make this practice illegal under irish law, but there is still a lot of work to be done with regards to awareness of this issue. fgm is recognised internationally as a violation of the human rights of girls and women. it reflects a deep-rooted inequality between the sexes and constitutes an extreme form of discrimination against women. it is nearly always carried out on minors and is a violation of the rights of children. successive presidencies of the european council have failed to make this a priority, but it is a european problem. i am glad that the un general assembly in december 2012 adopted a resolution on the elimination of female genital mutilation. whilst i welcome the fact that it has been discussed here today, and that the european parliament has already passed a resolution, we need to do much, much more.
madam president, two years ago i spoke in this very chamber about the case of waris dirie, who is now a un ambassador for the abolition of female genital mutilation. as a young woman, i read her book ‘desert flower’ and her case was the first time that i had heard about fgm. as i have said before, it moved me to tears. the physical and mental impact of this devastating practice and the harrowing experience of a young woman, echoed by millions across the globe, left a lasting impression on me. as today is the international day of zero tolerance to female genital mutilation, i feel it is more important than ever to call on the commission to set out its recommendations on how member states can tackle this illegal practice, which affects more than half a million women here in the eu. we must make sure that the public realise that this practice constitutes a gross form of violence against women and violence against the child. but we must also ensure that the member states themselves understand better the prevalence of this in their own society, as well as tackling the problem through effective prosecution and punishment. the commission must also consider how it can help to eliminate the practice in third countries. the fact that 125 million women around the world are affected by this brutal practice, which leaves them with serious health and life-threatening problems, is an astonishing figure that commands our attention. the practice of fgm must be condemned worldwide and i fully support calls for the commission and the external action service to take a firm stance on those countries which do not. we must lift this taboo, we must face up to the scale of the problem and we must reach out to find a way to bring an end to this barbaric practice the world over.
madam president, i am very pleased to join this cross-party debate and i am also pleased that we have abandoned the unacceptable old practice of talking about female circumcision. female genital mutilation much better conveys the full horror of the practice – that it is child abuse, even child torture. the estimates of girls at risk in the uk range from 20 000 to 65 000. this figure comes from recent research. 65 000 girls at risk in the uk? it is completely unacceptable that this should be even remotely tolerated. the press in the uk today is reporting that prosecution is imminent in the uk. well, we have had it criminalised for decades in britain, but there have been no successful prosecutions. i am glad that the crown prosecution service, which is actually now led by a woman, has established a network of specialised prosecutors around the country and i think they are upping their game, but it does, as others have said, rely a great deal on education and awareness. the time is absolutely ripe for an eu-wide initiative. i am proud that a party colleague of mine in the uk, the liberal democrat minister for international development, lynne featherstone, has committed gbp 35 million internationally to fighting fgm and has recently visited burkina faso. today at 11 a.m. uk time – midday here – there will be a twitter thunderclap campaign to end fgm within a generation. please join it.
madam president, i too very much welcome the initiative of my uk colleague, the uk minister for international development, lynne featherstone. she has made it a uk government priority to end female genital mutilation in a generation, both at home and abroad. i would urge the commission and the external action service to continue to work with member states and to commit funding to sensitive local projects. the best progress is made when projects take place on the ground in local communities, with families coming out and declaring publicly that they have abandoned the practice of female genital mutilation. however, as well as that action on the ground, it is also important to take action at the highest diplomatic level. the eu needs to work with global partners, such as the african union, to build a global consensus on ending female genital mutilation. the joint parliamentary assembly is meeting here in strasbourg next month: i wonder whether the commission could tell us what special initiatives it is planning, taking the opportunity of this meeting to push effectively for joint action by europe and africa on the commitment to end female genital mutilation once and for all. i welcome what the commissioner said. this is child abuse and we have to stop it.
madam president, we stand here and congratulate ourselves that today is international day against female genital mutilation. i do not congratulate us, however. every single day of every single year should be an international day of action against female genital mutilation. after 15 years in this parliament, i cannot believe that we are still standing here calling for action. i welcome the commission’s communication involving six directorates-general, which is as it should be because we are dealing with a horizontal human rights issue. but we need an action plan and we need it before the end of this parliamentary term. female genital mutilation is an internationally recognised abuse of human rights, children’s rights and women’s rights. it can be addressed only if we recognise the holistic rights of women, including sexual-health and reproductive rights: the right of a woman, not a man and certainly not a cleric, to decide what to do with her body. i have witnessed the physical effects of female genital mutilation and they are horrific. now is the time for action: the numbers in our member states are terrifying. and let me say this, commissioner, because i know you listen: we have to address our friends, and those who do not want to deal with this issue, face on. there is no alternative: the practice must end. we need fewer words and more action, and therefore i urge the eu and all the member states to sign up to the european convention on preventing and combating violence against women. we need that broad framework. i hope we never have to address this issue in the next parliamentary term.
madam president, i asked the commission a question very similar to the one asked today after a constituent of mine from birmingham highlighted a campaign they are running there to help put an end to female genital mutilation (fgm). i would mention too that my liberal democrat colleague lynne featherstone, in the coalition government in the uk, has made it one of her priorities to end this horrific practice. fgm is not acceptable. it is a violation of fundamental rights and it affects thousands of women and girls living in europe. i would like to know why the european union is not more vocal on this issue both in europe and with our international partners. also, what immediate action is being taken to help member states combat fgm, in terms, for instance, of sharing best practice for outreach to those communities where the practice is most prevalent?
madam president, the use of canals in the uk for transporting goods has almost died out, with the exception – of course – of the manchester ship canal. today, our waterways are mainly used for leisure. i am always defending regional, national and european freight transport strategies that encourage a modal shift from road to more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail and inland waterways. clearly, the naiades ii package has not delivered on that so far. given the name of this strategy ‘making better use of europe’s waterways’, i would also like to ask the european commission: what is its action plan to improve the connection between waterways that are mainly used for leisure and tourism and their connections to other forms of transport, as well as to ensure that these waterways are also used in the most environmentally friendly way?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i generally try to be optimistic about these matters. one day, i believe, even mr cohn-bendit will say something sensible. however, just a year ago i was sceptical about whether the council could reach any agreement on these issues in the last stage of banking union. let us be realistic: we are talking about a very significant shift in sovereignty within the eurozone and we are talking about very large amounts of money. we have the makings of a deal that would provide much-needed certainty to the eurozone banks. surely that is in everyone’s interests. although it does not involve my country, i believe it is in our interests that such certainty should be provided. it is also in everyone’s interest to end the practice whereby banks make the profits yet taxpayers bear the losses if they go wrong. i do not disagree with many of the views on that. my group is not opposed to much of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) text. however, we do have some serious concerns with parliament’s position. firstly, i believe we have to ensure that those countries outside the eurozone, such as the czech republic and sweden, which have many eurozone-bank subsidiaries, are fully involved in the decisions that will affect their interests. secondly, i believe we have to protect the eu budget from being called upon to shore up banks in a currency that many member states have no intention of joining. those are our red lines, and parliament’s proposals as they stand do not currently guarantee them. i do, however, agree with the need for clarity on who will make the decisions when a eurozone bank fails, and i appreciate the concern that a few large countries could call the shots in the operation of such a mechanism. but we must also be careful not to go the other way and put in place a structure so rigid that it would fail to respond appropriately to the many different ways that a bank can fail at any time or in any place. so there is a need to improve parliament’s and the council’s positions before we can find a settlement that suits both northern and southern countries and non-euro and euro countries. unfortunately, for some people, today’s debate and vote are not about trying to move forward or to find a solution: they are about institutional power play and posturing. even mr verhofstadt said that, for a change, we should copy the united states of america. perhaps we should try that in a few other policy areas as well. my group is not completely satisfied with either the council’s or parliament’s position. we believe we need to respect the rules of the single market, we believe we need to respect the state aid rules. however, we have tried to approach these issues looking at the bigger picture, which ought to transcend the petty institutional wrangling that some people want to take part in. under the lisbon treaty, this parliament has significant powers: let us try to exercise those powers responsibly.
chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. - mr president, we have heard from the group presidents, reinforcing the position taken by my committee and our debate earlier this week. in the trialogues, i have and will continue to maintain that all issues are on the table for negotiation. we have had three trialogues, where the greek presidency has had no negotiating mandate beyond that of the council position. there are limits to how long we can go on explaining one another’s position to each other. time has been wasted. i have taken the initiative on my own shoulders and put ideas forward beyond those in the parliament position. i have tried to be enterprising. the commission has helped, but it takes two sides to move. i cannot lead colleagues on a one-way journey and i do not have any appetite or intention to do so. so the council must move, use its imagination and be more european. it must be clear that minute and incremental steps are not enough. i have heard some ministers say there is no flexibility. that is not how it works. there are merits in aspects of both the council and parliament positions. if there is to be an srm, i can accept that there has to be the best of both. it is not the best and worst of one side only. co-decision means we must try to find the best of both. we can show you today that we can vote just one side’s position. we can come back again and we can vote a fair compromise, but we will not come back and vote the council position or some almost identical version thereof.
chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – mr president, this is just to explain that we are asking for a postponement of the legislative resolution so that we can continue negotiations with the council with the reinforced mandate from this plenary session. we have had two debates on this very important matter, and it is quite clear that to try to have just one side negotiating all by itself and saying that there is no room for manoeuvre is not co-decision and is not satisfactory. i appreciate the support of colleagues in sending a strong message to council on this dossier.
mr president, i have two oral amendments. the first is very short. they are both to ensure that what we have previously agreed across the single market in the rrd, and the principles that we have agreed on the banking union, are respected again in this dossier. the first amendment is just to add the words ‘and non-participating’ after the words ‘each participating’. this is to make sure that every country gets a say when a bank that has a subsidiary in its jurisdiction is involved in a resolution process. i shall give the second one after we have voted this one.
mr president, i will read this amendment reasonably speedily as i suspect colleagues will oppose it as well. the amendment is: ‘any liabilities of the union in relation to non-contractual liabilities and costs related thereto relating to the performance by the council or the commission of their tasks under article 16 of this regulation may under no circumstances entail any financial liability for the member states that are not participating member states (the “non-participating member states”). the participating member states shall establish arrangements to ensure that the non-participating member states are reimbursed in full, promptly and with interest, in relation to any amounts paid in own resources in respect of any application of the union budget for the purposes described in the first subparagraph.’ may i make it clear: we are not stopping banking union but it needs to be very clear where the costs lie.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it fails in its stated aims. decreasing the length of delay after which compensation can be claimed from five to three hours would incentivise airlines to cancel flights in order to maintain their schedule and minimise compensation. secondly, it would put a disproportionate burden on feeder flights. if adopted, these proposals would lead to a reduction in services (particularly from the regions) and would threaten ‘inter-lining’, thus increasing journey times and requiring passengers to check baggage in and out for ‘connecting flights’. in addition, the proposals would not remove a clause suspending the application of air-passenger-rights legislation to gibraltar. in 2006, the uk, spain and the government of gibraltar concluded the ‘cordoba agreement’ to ensure that gibraltar airport was part of the eu’s single market. i share the uk government’s strong view that gibraltar is an eu airport and that, in line with the treaties, all eu aviation measures must be extended to gibraltar.
in writing. - the bach report on air passenger rights contains many positive improvements to the existing regulation. i support the moves to improve legal clarity and to close loopholes that allow some airlines to avoid paying passengers the full compensation to which they are entitled. i am also a strong advocate of greater transparency for passengers with regard to hand-luggage allowances, particularly airport shopping purchases. i was glad, too, to see the inclusion of my amendment requiring all airports with more than one million passengers to have a ‘changing places’ facility for severely disabled people. despite my support for these measures, however, i abstained in the vote on the final report as conservative amendments to include gibraltar in the regulation were rejected. i could not, in all conscience, vote for a report on passenger rights that took away the rights of the people of gibraltar and failed to recognise gibraltar as part of the european union.
in writing. - although i was very pleased by parliament’s endorsement of three legally binding targets – on energy efficiency, the renewable share in energy consumption, and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions – there are aspects of this report that i disagree with, particularly the references to nuclear energy and to carbon capture and storage as possible means of decarbonising the economy. however, i was pleased that the report also calls for shale-gas exploration and extraction to be subject to environmental impact assessment (eia), and for data transparency in relation to chemicals used in the fracking process. in the light of the unambitious climate and energy 2030 framework announced by the commission on 22 january 2014, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report because our energy market must be free from the burden of expensive renewable energy quotas. i cannot support this joint committee report calling for the continuation of the 2020 binding targets on emissions reduction and renewables, as well as a mandatory target for energy efficiency. the commissioner for industry has said that europe faces an ‘industrial massacre’ because of high energy costs. we cannot afford to continue to make the same mistakes that have pushed our energy costs to such a high level.
in writing. - i was strongly in support of this report and i am pleased that parliament adopted it. it proposes binding climate and energy targets for 2030 on renewables, energy efficiency and greenhouse gases. this sends a strong message to the eu governments who will discuss the 2030 roadmap at their march summit. i had received much correspondence from my constituents in wales who are concerned that the eu should lead in the fight against climate change, and want ambitious targets. a 45% renewables target for 2030 would have been achievable but we have agreed on only 30%.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe we should reduce our dependency on fossil fuels and should, instead, support clean industries so as to help fight climate change.
in writing. - i am disappointed with the position outlined in this report. it does not take due account of the lessons that need to be learned from the 2020 climate and energy framework, nor does it offer the flexible approach that is needed if we are to reduce the high energy costs which eu citizens face in the current market. however, i am most disappointed by the manner in which today’s vote on the report was conducted. i was unable to register my final vote because, like many of my colleagues, i was waiting for the rapporteur from the ecr group who had asked to take the floor to do so. i feel strongly that due process was not followed in denying him the chance to speak, and i very much hope that we will have the opportunity to cast our votes on this report again.
in writing. - i am pleased that the socialists and democrats were successful in pushing for binding targets in this report, which sets out an ambitious framework for climate and energy. this own-initiative report highlights parliament’s priorities in relation to climate change and clean energy policy. i am pleased that targets for a 40% reduction in greenhouse gases and the inclusion of 30% renewables in the energy mix, as well as an energy efficiency target of 40% by 2030, were adopted. investing in renewables and low carbon technology is vital if we are to reduce our dependency on imported fossil fuels. i hope that these measures will help uk industry and create jobs across the uk over the coming years. i am disappointed that tory meps voted to water down the proposals: this once again highlights the differences between uk government policy and the position taken by tory meps on climate change and sustainable energy.
in writing. - this report sets out the european parliament’s position on a framework for climate and energy policies for the period 2020-2030. i supported the report as it is clear we need to take action to reduce emissions and prevent climate change, while maintaining our energy security. with the aim of limiting global warming to below 2°c, the eu needs to achieve an emissions reduction target of 80% below 1990 levels. labour meps and our socialist colleagues called for an ambitious report with binding targets for emissions reduction, renewables and energy efficiency. the report also calls for energy prices to be affordable and transparent. in order to ensure we have a sustainable and balanced energy mix, i believe we need to send a clear signal for investment in renewable and low-carbon technology, which may include carbon capture and storage, nuclear and possibly shale gas, provided that the necessary safety provisions are in place.
mr president, i am sure it was not intended, but we saw in the debate on this report an almost perfect demonstration of why the united kingdom, in the long run, cannot remain a member of the european union on current terms. my colleague, vicky ford, proposed, very moderately, that costs relating to bailing out the eurozone should fall only on the participants in the single currency, and the chamber rejected her proposal. in the long run, you cannot have a situation where countries which choose not to join the single currency are dragged, volente o nolente, into the common institutions created for it. i was very interested in the proposals coming from the german government for a eurozone parliament. that would seem to me to make very good sense. but rather than creating one from scratch, why not make it this parliament? why not have an arrangement where non-participants simply do not turn up, or perhaps turn up only when trade issues are being determined. there is no need to break the whole of the european union. we can have the federal countries doing their thing, while the others remain in a loose free-trade area.
mr president, more than six years after the run on northern rock and more than five years after the failure of lehman brothers, we still have not really tackled the problem of banks being allowed to fail or made sure that taxpayers are no longer liable. here in parliament, we want to be seen to be doing something but what we have done, with this single resolution mechanism, is to conflate and confuse the single market with banking union. this means that eurozone banks could find themselves being bailed out by non-eurozone member states. what we should do is get back to the basics and understand the three issues we need to tackle. we need to: end taxpayer bail-outs; make directors liable for failure; and return to true and fair accounting standards so that banks’ accounts are more accurate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. research proves that consumers, now more than ever, are looking for clear and detailed labelling and that, when it comes to meat, they have a keen interest in knowing the place where the animal was born. the implementing regulation would not deliver that clarity and it is confusing for consumers. therefore, i welcome the adoption of this objection today.
in writing. - the year 2012 saw the biggest episode of food fraud to hit britain in the past century. tens of millions of tonnes of meat-based products were withdrawn from supermarkets throughout europe. however, british people are still waiting to discover how horsemeat was so widely incorporated into their food chain. the difficulties of unpicking complex meat supply chains to discover at what point mislabelling was introduced have meant that prosecutions for this crime have been extremely difficult. to combat that appalling lack of accountability i voted in favour of mandatory labelling indicating the place of birth and slaughter for all meat. i believe that consumers should be told where an animal was reared and how far it has travelled, the animal-welfare standards of the countries it has passed through, and the time and place of slaughter. these standards have not been met by the commission or by many member states, and that is not acceptable to consumers. i hope today’s vote will be a move towards restoring trust in the food sector, and towards better standards of meat production in europe.
in writing. - i drafted this resolution objecting to the commission’s proposal to extend mandatory country-of-origin labelling for fresh meat. i am fully in favour of country-of-origin labelling for both fresh meat and meat in processed foods, but i was disappointed to see that the commission’s proposal did not go far enough. under the proposed rules, meat labelling would have to indicate only the countries where the animal was reared and slaughtered, not the country where it was born. consumers need full information on the provenance of their food to enable them to make informed decisions, and knowing where an animal was born is essential if consumers are to be allowed to make decisions based on animal welfare or environmental concerns. full country-of-origin labelling is already mandatory for beef so i am glad that meps supported my call for the commission to re-think this proposal and require that all fresh meat be labelled to show the places of birth, rearing and slaughter.
in writing. - i voted against this recommendation, which would see the scrutiny period shortened, in order to enable backloading to begin.
mr president, we need to beware of being glib; we need to beware of blundering in. ukraine is a vast and complex country – a country which, by some measures, suffered proportionately more than any other from the slaughters of the 20th century, with the anti-kulak campaign and the purges between the wars. we can see, in slavophile western eyes, a very clear distinction in the ancient borders between the romanoff and habsburg parts of ukraine. the word ‘ukraine’ itself, as i understand it, means edge or borderland. we should not think that it is up to us to blunder in and decree a solution. obviously we have our sympathies and i, like everyone else in this house, sympathise with people who want pluralism and the rule of law and personal liberty. but the protestors are in danger of tipping from those demands into demanding a coup. although we may not like the actions of the ukrainian government, it was a fairly elected government. i would much prefer a free trade arrangement to a customs union. i prefer that for my own country with the european union, let alone for ukraine, but we are attacking the very concept of democracy which is the thing that we are supposedly here to support.
in writing. - we must defend the right of peaceful protest of the euro-maidan activists in ukraine and, at the same time, support mediation to help find a durable political solution for the future. i am concerned when internal sympathies unduly influence statements here. i believe that all detainees should have the right to a fair trial, and that engagement with russia is an essential part of the solution. i do not think we can win a bidding war with moscow, nor am i persuaded that the time is yet right for sanctions. instead, let us use the ‘sochi window’ to make real progress on the ground, in the interests of democracy and sovereignty for this country as for any other.
in writing. - i share the deep concern expressed in this resolution about the ongoing situation in ukraine and i fully support its condemnation of violence against peaceful protestors. i hope that the ukrainian government will take urgent action to build confidence and trust in order to facilitate genuine political dialogue, and that a peaceful solution to this crisis can be found.
mr president, last month i led a group from the alliance of european conservatives and reformists to do some work in a syrian refugee camp on the turkish border. we were 50 parliamentarians from 12 different countries and we carried out a social action programme there. talking to the refugees was, of course, as you would imagine, a very harrowing experience. i remember one woman talking about how her husband had been tortured to death in the village mosque with the muezzin’s microphone turned on so that his screams would be broadcast to the entire community. believe me, listening to those things at first hand is not the same as listening to me recount the story here in the chamber. it is human nature, when you hear that kind of thing, to think that the response should be proportional to how upset you feel, but that is a false equation. the response needs to be proportionate not to the outrage, but to the ability to get something done. we can nudge the two sides together, we can supply humanitarian assistance, we can encourage people to talk, but the idea that we can intervene militarily and decree a solution, i am afraid that is self-deceit.
in writing. - the situation in syria is of grave concern. the civil war has cost the lives of more than 100 000 people and has displaced millions from their homes. i fully support this resolution’s call for the cessation of all hostilities in syria, and for efforts to be maintained to bring the warring factions together so that a peaceful solution can be reached.
in writing. - the situation in syria is dire. in the past five days, around 73 children have been killed in aleppo. it has been estimated that, since 2011, 10 000 children have been killed in the civil war. more must be done to alleviate the suffering of the citizens of syria, and the regime must respect human rights and chemical weapons deadlines. the treatment of children has been abhorrent. there have been numerous reports of abuse in prisons, with children incarcerated alongside adults. sexual abuse committed by the regime is widespread, including mutilation and rape. the world cannot stand idly and let this happen. the peace talks in geneva need to progress, and both sides need to address human rights abuses. the free syrian army has been training children to man military checkpoints and has put them in the line of fire. while most atrocities have been committed by the regime, the rebels are guilty too. just as worryingly, chemical weapons shipments have been delayed and have come under attack. the syrian regime is failing in its obligation to hand over weapons. we must ensure that progress does not grind to halt; we must ensure that aid reaches citizens.
mr president, there is no such thing as a good coup. any military regime becomes self-serving because it does not have to look over its shoulder at the electorate. the generals who have run egypt since 1952 have treated it as personal property, which explains that country’s present sorry situation. i am shocked to hear people in this chamber, and other western commentators, cheering on a military government because they did not happen to like the election result. you know what? i did not particularly like it either, but that is democracy. just as in ukraine and, by the way, just as when we have referendums in the european union, you cannot treat democracy purely as a means to an end. sometimes people will vote in ways that you do not like. the maturity of a country can be judged from its ability to assimilate that process, move on and make its own corrective, without needing to be told what to do from outside.
in writing. - this resolution assesses the situation in egypt and outlines the challenges facing this country, which is enduring a fresh period of bloodshed, sectarian violence, deep political and social polarisation and economic stagnation. i fully support the resolution’s call for our continued backing for egypt’s transition to become a democratic state.
in writing. - the situation in egypt remains precarious. the country is struggling, in the face of al qaeda-backed militants, to cement a democratic foundation. the army is unable to bring security to the streets, and police forces have been targeted with bombs. the death toll continues to rise and demonstrations have become a daily occurrence. it remains unclear whether the provisional leader, field marshal al-sisi, will run for presidential office, given the army’s denial of a kuwaiti report that he would do so. with the trials of both mubarak and morsi still ongoing, it is unclear what kind of future egypt faces. the situation has improved marginally since the overthrow of mubarak, but civil unrest continues and egypt is truly divided. the eu must ensure that any aid given reaches the citizens and does not fall into the hands of militias hell-bent on unleashing terror upon the people. the army must make solid efforts to bring democracy to egypt and should not revert to installing dictators. egypt is still positioned at the crossroads and it must choose the democratic path.
mr president, as we stand here the putin regime is under pressure in the run up to the sochi games because of its stance on equality for gay people and of course it should be under pressure. equality of all citizens under the law is a desirable precept, but if i were putin i would be astonished to think that i am being criticised now for having literally got away with murder in the decades leading up to this moment: the repression of journalists, the autocratic system, the way in which every contiguous country has felt the pressure of russian revanchism: the baltics, bulgaria, the caucasian states, in the case of georgia literally an invasion. this is not a question of internal repression; the regime in the kremlin has crossed the border into breaking international law. in the case of the litvinenko affair it collaborated, to put it as neutrally as possible, with the murder of a citizen living under the queen’s peace in the united kingdom. that really is, unlike some of the other motions for resolutions that we have been discussing today, a cause for us to take direct diplomatic international action to defend our legitimate interests.
in writing. - this resolution reflects on eu-russia relations following the summit which took place on 28 january 2014. whilst reiterating the importance of eu-russia relations, it also highlights the current challenges for eu-russia cooperation and rightly expresses concern about the human rights situation in russia.
mr president, some years ago i visited sarajevo and i met the then eu commissioner, the high representative, the colonial governor so to speak, and he said – and i thought that this was the perfect eurocrat remark – ‘i am criticised by both sides: the serbs and the bosniaks are both attacking what i am doing, so i must be doing something right’ and i said to him: ‘no, if everybody is criticising you, that suggests to me that you are doing something wrong’. there is the eternal gulf between the democrat and the brussels official. bosnia has been turned into a kind of eu in miniature, where democratic self-determination is struck down so as to preserve at all costs the ideal of a multinational state, right down to the blue flag with the stars on and the paraphernalia and symbolism that they have downloaded from brussels. the way in which bosnia would have reached maturity would, of course, be when it could be democratic, when people could vote and have their decisions respected. instead of which, in order to prepare it for eu membership, we are first teaching it to repress democratic self-determination.
in writing. - this report assesses the status of bosnia and herzegovina with regard to the european integration process, and identifies the fact that the country is currently at a standstill. it argues that short-term party or ethnic interests are hampering pursuit of the longer-term objectives of a closer relationship with the eu. i voted in favour of the resolution and i support efforts to continue to work with the authorities to promote political and economic reforms.
in writing. - i believe that there should be more commitment to making bosnia and herzegovina an effective and fully functioning state. reform there requires political will on the part of leaders, both in bosnia and herzegovina and at eu level – as outlined in this report, which i fully support. strengthening the rule of law by fighting organised crime and corruption is the focus of eu assistance to bosnia and herzegovina, and that effort must be maintained and built on in order to stabilise the country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and progress towards possible eu membership; the ecr group has supported the opening of accession negotiations and believes that it will have wider benefits for the western balkans and the eu as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. i will continue to support montenegro’s euro-atlantic ambitions and its efforts on political and institutional reform and economic development.
in writing. - i voted for the oral question on female genital mutilation (fgm), asking the commission about its intentions to propose a strategy and action plan aimed at addressing fgm. although i do not want to see an eu legislative instrument, i would like to see more coherent policy, detailing how member states can tackle this brutality. in particular, i would like to see member states pursuing, prosecuting and punishing any eu resident who has carried out fgm, and i would like to see them recognise that fgm is a gross form of violence against women and violence against the child. (according to the world health organisation, the majority of cases of fgm have involved young girls between infancy and the age of 15.)
in writing. - this resolution tackles a vitally important issue, the elimination of female genital mutilation (fgm). i welcome its call for stronger action in this area and for the commission and the european external action service to take a firm stance on third countries which do not condemn fgm. i voted in favour of the resolution today.
in writing. - the ecr group takes a strong stance against the genital mutilation of girls and women. we are appalled by this gross violation of girls’ and women’s right to bodily integrity. it is important for the eu to play its part and we welcome the strategy communication from the commission and its focus on prevention of fgm. the ecr acknowledges fgm as a serious criminal offence, either when taking place within the eu or outside, by an eu resident or national and therefore recognise that member states will have criminal legislation in place and we urge member states to fully implement and enforce this legislation. we do not believe that eu legislation would be effective in this instance and therefore the ecr has voted against paragraph 4. whilst we recognise that there is a high prevalence in african countries, we do not believe that it is helpful to refer to ‘recorded countries’ or indeed specific countries. the genital mutilation of girls frequently happens in secret and it is difficult to obtain accurate figures on how many girls and women it affects and which countries are the most prevalent, for this reason we have voted against part 2 of recital d.
in writing. - looking at how we can better tailor eu legislation to take account of the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises is always worthwhile. this resolution makes some useful recommendations for smes on leveraging extra funding and utilising innovative financial instruments, and i voted in favour of it today.
in writing. - the inland waterway transport sector in the eu provides an environment-friendly alternative to road and rail. with over 37 000 km of inland waterways in europe, the sector is vital for transporting goods between towns and cities and it helps to keep both noise and gas emissions down. i welcome an action programme to support this sector and i hope that future spending from the connecting europe fund, the cohesion fund and horizon 2020 will be used effectively to expand the network across europe, to improve innovation in the sector and to enhance the environmental aspects of inland waterway transport.
author. - mr president, i welcome the very reasonable and balanced remarks by my good friend and colleague, mr kelam. to make a general point, first of all: of course we have to stand up for genuine human rights and we must help others on to the path to reform. but we also have to recognise the realities of every particular situation: the presence of extremist elements, interference by outside countries that wish to destabilise a regime and, of course, the need for law and order. but that in itself is not an excuse for arbitrary imprisonment. bahrain is a country that has been a longstanding friend and ally of the west, and in particular of my own country. following the king’s initiative, the crown prince of bahrain has shown great leadership in a process of sustained and comprehensive reform, which will improve democracy and help build stability. all politicians of good will in bahrain, of whatever political colour, should be prepared to engage constructively in the national political dialogue. for their part, the bahraini authorities need to show restraint and generosity. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
author, blue-card answer. - as my good friend and colleague, ms schaake, knows full well, i was not, of course, referring to saudi arabia. saudi arabia is actually a friend and ally of the regime. i was talking about interference from countries on the other side of the gulf, not least from iran.
, member of the commission. - madam president, „gut ding will weile haben!“ and „ende gut, alles gut!“are german sayings that somehow reflect what we experienced with our proposals on emissions from passenger cars. i am glad that, at the end of a rather prolonged and difficult legislative process, i can now be brief. my thanks of course go to the rapporteur mr ulmer for all his work steering our proposal through very choppy waters towards this first-reading agreement. i know that there have been interesting debates on this file also within parliament, and i am of course grateful as well to the different shadow rapporteurs who have brought their own perspective to this discussion. i believe that, together, we have in the end managed to ensure an agreement at first reading, which i think is a good outcome. actually we have secured a 27% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 for new cars, compared to the standards set for 2015. that is really something substantial. one of the biggest points of debate was the issue of super-credits. at the end, i think we reached an outcome that is acceptable to all, and a decision that was based on a sound analysis of the implications of the choice. we can all be glad that we now have the modalities agreed for reaching the target. this now provides the manufacturers and supplier industry with the clarity they need to implement the necessary technologies and therefore continue to produce vehicles and technology that are attractive at a global level. the 95g/co2 per km target is achievable and it is achievable in a cost-effective manner by employing technologies already available today. this was set out in the commission’s analysis and nothing has really called that into question. achieving it presents multiple benefits. mr ulmer has already mentioned the benefit for the manufacturers; the benefit for the consumers is that they will have a reduced fuel bill. i could also mention the benefit for the european economy, which benefits from lower oil import bills and sees savings from consumers’ lower fuel bills being spent for other purposes. that is a clever way to spend the money in a time of crisis in europe. we know that planning certainty is important for industry and, in view of that, the final compromise requests the commission to review the legislation by the end of 2015 for the period into the next decade. i am pleased to be able to tell you that this work is already well under way. a set of studies is being undertaken so as to ensure that the next steps are based on the most up-to-date information, and in carrying them out the commission will of course ensure that it addresses the various requests set out in the text of the final agreement, many of which have been originated here in parliament. as we have set out in the commission communication on the 2030 policy framework for climate and energy, it is absolutely clear that vehicle emissions need to continue reducing in the next decade – that is the decade after 2020. the commission indicates that transport should reduce its overall emissions by 20% in 2030, compared to 2008. that is not a small task. that is a substantial task. in view of that challenge, the commission made a statement, which has been transmitted to parliament for inclusion in the minutes, and which refers both to the annual rate of reduction in co2 emissions and the range of ambition indicated by parliament of 68g to 78g co2 per km. that will be explored in the analysis that is being done right now. the next step for the 2015 review is that the commission will soon launch a consultation process which will look into the various issues and parameters which would need to be addressed when setting a target for after 2020. it is very good that we are here now with a target for 2020, with the next steps already in the pipeline.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president, commissioner hedegaard mentioned the difficulties which this process has gone through. as is well known, this plenary vote should have taken place months ago, but the intervention of two heads of government caused the trialogue agreement reached under the irish presidency to be overturned. a secret deal between two leaders is no way to make european legislation, and it has seriously undermined the normal democratic codecision process. fortunately parliament came back to the table and managed to limit the attempt to weaken the deal. this matters, not just in terms of reducing co2 emissions and tackling climate change, but also because more efficient cars use less fuel and save money for hard-pressed individuals – up to a thousand pounds (eur[nbsp ]1[nbsp ]200) a year for the average driver. it also matters because tight standards are driving the growth of very low-emission electric vehicles, creating thousands of extra jobs, including in my own constituency in the north-east of england. finally, i particularly welcome the closing of the loopholes in the test cycle, which have left so many people disenchanted about their failure to get fuel efficiency from their vehicles.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, it is hard to recall that it took some years to persuade the commission to introduce legislation in the first place. you may remember that there was a voluntary agreement which the car industry was not keeping to, and it took some time before the commission would introduce proposals specifically to reduce co2 emissions. this is strange, because they had been an enormous success. they have given a real fillip to the engineers, and european industry has demonstrated its ability to adjust and to go forward. i think the whole legislation has been very good indeed – good for drivers, good for our environment and good for the car industry, which has kept its lead in the world. although ms grossetête is right to talk about the competitive pressures, she also has to remember that every car sold in the european union, whether it is made here or abroad, has to meet those standards. so there is a degree of level playing field which allows us to make good environmental improvements. i have dealt with a couple of pieces of legislation on this aspect before. i am looking forward to the commission coming back next year with an ambitious report for setting 2025 standards. i want to give the car industry a clear direction, and of course we also want to address the test cycle issues. i think good progress has been made and will be made. i just hope i am here to facilitate some of it.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, this report calls for a directive which will allow judicial authorities to confiscate someone’s assets without a criminal conviction. what happened to the presumption of innocence until proved guilty? the bedrock of the english constitution is the bill of rights, 1689. it clearly says ‘that grants and promises of fines and forfeitures of particular persons before convictions are illegal and void’. that means that no government or judicial authority can impose a fine or take away someone’s property for an alleged criminal activity, but must first secure a criminal conviction in a court of law. the bill of rights is a constitutional act and is still in force. our freedoms and liberties are being eroded and destroyed, and the pretext is always the same: that we have to be protected from crime and terrorism. but the single biggest reason for the increased threat of crime in the uk and europe is the eu’s open borders policy. open borders mean that we cannot stop criminals – big and small, organised and disorganised – from coming to our country. indeed, it will be illegal under the eu’s freedom of movement directives to discriminate against criminals. all uk meps should vote against this report. if a directive is adopted, then the british government should unilaterally refuse to transpose it into uk law. it would be illegal and void.
madam president, may i take this opportunity to thank all who have contributed to this debate and report. each member state will, of course, have its own means of freezing and confiscating the proceeds of crime. i must take this opportunity to praise the work of the organised crime task force in northern ireland for its role in apprehending dangerous counterfeiters, smugglers and traffickers and seizing their criminal assets. it is also to my disappointment and dismay that two of the main governing parties in northern ireland saw fit to block the implementation of the national crime agency. the nca has a dedicated unit operating in the uk, although it is now operationally diminished in my own constituency. indeed the local police service has said in relation to trafficking that cracks are beginning to open up, as the police are missing out on operational assistance which the nca could and would have brought. i cannot think of any logical reason for these parties’ decision, which does not reflect the ethos of northern ireland or the eu in fighting serious cross-border organised crime.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, on the one hand, it is good for once to be able to agree with the report in that it opposes the merging of the european police college and europol. on the other hand, uk independence party meps cannot vote for it because it calls for yet more powers to be given to europol. this report wants to increase europolʼs powers to participate in the investigative and judicial proceedings of member states. europol is of course the european union’s emerging cross-border police force – the united states of europe’s own fbi – but there is no need for it, or to enlarge its powers. bilateral agreements between nation states are a far cheaper and more effective way of achieving the desired results, and by these means nations can retain democratic control and accountability over their own police forces. existing mechanisms and interpol already exist to provide cooperation between the police forces of nation states. few people in britain realise that europol officers have immunity for anything that they do or say in the course of their duties. such immunity is a concept unknown under english law, where it is a centuries-old principle that no one is above the law. we need genuine cooperation between nation states, police and judicial authorities. we do not need a european police force, leading eventually to a european police state.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i should like to say on behalf of my group that we very much welcome the proposals in parliament’s response on this particular issue. i think a number of us will have met or heard from students, from researchers, who have been hit by the current difficulties, who do not get a reply on time to their applications where the research grant is running out and who will then find themselves in a situation where they cannot take up the offer, which is a problem for them and their working lives. it is also a problem, of course, for the research institutes, the research bodies that thought this was the best person to come in and help their research. we also very much welcome the introduction of the cross-border element in this. we are seeing more and more research being conducted in the european union across borders. it seems only right that those people conducting that research should also be able to move in order to make the most of the possibilities of what it is they have come to do. we were concerned that we did not, in this proposal, go back over some of the rights which are already there, for example in terms of family reunification for researchers, and we very much welcome the extension of this to students. we are also pleased to see the increased possibilities for volunteering. i think we need to see this as part of a lifelong learning experience, an experience in terms of capacity-building and indeed in terms of learning from those coming to us for those opportunities; the greater clarity and protection for au pairs is something we also welcome in this proposal.
blue-card question. – thank you for taking the intervention. i did not quite understand from your speech: is it your view that all researchers should thereby have a right of permanent settlement?
mr president, i congratulate both the rapporteur and the shadows, and i think this report attempted to deal with a very sensitive issue in a very well-managed way. of course many colleagues have talked about these being sensible measures and i think that is the case. we have dealt here with research studies, people exchange, voluntary service, au-pairing. what we are doing, as we did with the directive on seasonal workers, is to talk about managed migration, sensible measures across the eu dealt with by members of parliament, understanding that these are very sensitive areas, but understanding too that we should manage them well. i think some of the sensitive and progressive measures that we have taken on board – for example, allowing people to work and pay taxes while they are also contributing to our member states – are very sensible indeed, but they need to be managed. it is a very positive step forward that the european union is dealing with these matters rather than just talking about them, and i think meps have done a good job here and it is a very positive step forward.
mr president, this report starts innocently enough by referring to conditions of entry for ostensibly short-term visitors, such as exchange pupils or au[nbsp ]pairs. then the pretences are cast aside and it admits that it is just a prelude to large-scale permanent immigration, eleven million in the current decade. why? the pretext is europe’s ageing population caused, in part, by women’s enslavement to economic forces and subservience to anti-family propaganda. the report envisages ‘third-country’, for which you can often read third world, immigrants with their large families becoming replacement europeans. well, they won’t. they will continue to turn more and more parts of europe into the third world. you cannot change a person’s identity by changing his or her country or continent of residence. furthermore, you do not help poorer countries by robbing them of their most skilled and able workers. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – i sometimes wonder if people have read the report. the third world was referred to, and i am sure the member will know the major countries that actually supply researchers and university students to the european union at the moment. so i am sure that mr brons will inform us as to which of the countries are sending the largest number of students and researchers at the moment.
blue-card answer. – (first few words missing as microphone not switched on) ... long list of occupations here, they are not just students and researchers, but in fact the following paragraph mentions quite separately that europe today has an ageing population and needs immigration. so in other words it goes well beyond the bounds of this report. it is simply looking for an excuse to bring more and more immigrants into europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, like everybody else, i am very proud to be taking part in this debate, because this is something very important and new which we are launching – admittedly low-key, and i am not sure the media will report it, because it is good news and so it is not so exciting. but this was a proposal provided for in the lisbon treaty so it is an entirely long-term, positive european development which we have been waiting for. the committee on development only had one person against. we were overwhelmingly in favour of it under our rapporteur ms[nbsp ]striffler. i listened along with her and some other members of the committee to the youngsters who had been on the pilot schemes. they were full of enthusiasm for the experience they had had, because not only is it helping unfortunate parts of the world where there have been natural disasters – floods, earthquakes or whatever – which allows them to make the world a slightly better place and to help in that, but the youngsters who took part in the pilot trials also said it is a wonderful experience to be working together with other people from different european countries. so it is an entirely positive and beneficial experience. to me it is a very good example rather like the erasmus programme, allowing students to study in different parts of europe and learning that we are all human beings together; we may eat spaghetti, or roast beef or whatever, but we are exactly the same – but we are very fortunate and should be helping in other parts of the world. now i took part also in the trialogue and the attempts to reach agreement with the council and there was one thing which disappointed me, and i think my colleagues, which is that on parliamentʼs side we would have liked to have seen the volunteers wearing some identity to say that this is an eu force, perhaps a little badge on their t-shirt or something with the eu flag. however too many members of the council thought that this was a bad idea, which, i think, is something that they should be ashamed of, and i hope at least that some of the volunteers will proudly carry the european flag wherever they go. one thing that ms[nbsp ]georgieva said was extremely interesting: that eurobarometer says that 88[nbsp ]% of citizens in europe are in favour this, and of course they should be and i welcome their warm-heartedness. i just think about my own country with the monster of ukip which is against everything, is utterly miserable and against foreign aid and against foreigners and against immigrants. they are not here, of course, to take part in this debate – no surprise there at all – but i shall be fascinated tomorrow to see whether ukip and the other eurosceptic parties vote against this proposal, because this is something very special and new, and although there are only a small number of us in the chamber right now, we can all be very proud, as several colleagues have said, to be in at the beginning, launching something which is going to be entirely beneficial to europe and the world.
blue-card question. – ms[nbsp ] morvai, my wife is hungarian. i spent part of christmas and the new year in budapest. i have relations and family in hungary, so i have problem at all in accepting your invitation to go to hungary. i know many hungarians and i would be very happy to talk to many more. i am sure they will all – like the ones i know – be very enthusiastic.
madam president, after writing to the commission requesting an update on an eu strategy for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), i was very disappointed to be informed that the commission does not intend to put forward a specific strategy for patients with copd as it says that it is addressing the key issue with the tobacco products directive. not only is this disappointing, but it is worrying. copd is one of the leading causes of premature deaths worldwide, yet awareness of copd is insufficient. given the prevalence and the socio-economic burden of copd, not only should there be ringfencing of funds for specific diseases – such as this one – that have been underfunded, but we need to start tackling the deficiencies in the way that copd is treated across europe. people suffering from copd and patients with respiratory diseases in europe have for decades been enduring large disparities in the standard of care received. to overcome these inequalities, patient-driven standards, prevention, diagnosis, care and rehabilitation have to be better measured. i urge the commission to take greater responsibility on this issue.
madam president, on 10[nbsp ]february an article by yasmin alibhai-brown appeared in the independent newspaper. the headline described certain people as ‘hideously white’, while the text included a description of them as ‘pompous, backward and white’. these derogatory descriptions associated with race would appear to be an offence under the race relations act. on that basis i have written to the metropolitan police. the independent is, i believe, on sale on the continent. if an eu citizen outside the united kingdom complained about the article then mrs alibhai-brown could find herself the subject of a european arrest warrant issued under the category of racism and xenophobia. she could find herself locked up for a considerable amount of time on the order of an investigating magistrate while the case is looked into. i would, of course, oppose her judicial surrender under a european arrest warrant as being contrary to the principles of english law.
madam president, when the history of the 21st century is written it could be remembered as the one in which europeans were ethnically cleansed from large parts of their homelands. within my lifetime large parts of the cities of many countries in the west have been transformed into outposts of africa and asia. by the end of the century the east will probably be transformed in the same way. now it has not happened autonomously like the wind and tides; it has been brought about deliberately by the people who misrule us: the political class. when the peoples of europe are no longer the pre-eminent populations our distinctive culture will be no more. distinctive peoples are not the product of distinctive cultures; distinctive cultures are the product of distinctive peoples. demographic change is not just about numbers and space. it is about the identities of the peoples doing the replacing and the people being replaced. there is still time for europeans nationally, and in cooperation, to alter their destiny and take control of their own future. it will require moral courage, determination and resolution.
mr president, late last year, i brought up in this chamber the case of a british ski instructor called simon butler. mr butler is trying to ply his trade in france at the moment, but he is being hounded by the french authorities, who claim that his qualifications do not meet their requirements, which is blatantly untrue and they know it. i finished my speech by asking for a meeting with commissioner barnier to clear up this matter, which he kindly agreed to. on 20 january, mr butler and i met the commissioner, and mr butler now has a memorandum of understanding from commissioner barnier, which should mean that he can ply his trade without trouble, without problems and without being harangued and harassed by the french authorities. so you can understand why we were a bit shocked last week when mr butler was locked up in a cell for 36 hours for absolutely no reason. it just goes to show that it is a farce. we in britain stick to the rules and we comply with the single market, but the french do not. it is a disgrace.
rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues, as well as all the shadows and the various ngos and groups i have worked with: the european women’s lobby, equality now, various networks of women who have survived working in prostitution, and the european commission anti-trafficking coordinator. my report takes as its basis two directives: the directives on victims of violence, which came out in 2012, and trafficking, which dates from 2011, because it is very clear that trafficking fuels prostitution and prostitution fuels trafficking. that is one of the main reasons why prostitution is a cross-border issue and why it is something that we should be deeply concerned about in this parliament. there are also, of course, health implications which matter as well. so i am very pleased to have this opportunity to introduce this report. it has been a controversial and difficult subject, because the laws regarding prostitution – as opposed to the overall strategy and what we are doing with cross-border issues – belong to member states. they are, quite rightly, the competence of member states, and they vary enormously. in certain countries like the uk, prostitution itself is not illegal, but everything concerning it is: soliciting, procuring, running a brothel and associated activities are all criminal offences. in some countries, prostitution is completely legal – that is the case in germany and the netherlands – so we are dealing with a very varying perspective. i would not say that this has made this report difficult, but it has had to take account of all the different traditions across the european union. one thing has been clear: that very few women indeed work in prostitution totally as a matter of free choice. during the course of my work for this, i have met many survivors and talked to many people who work in prostitution in various forms, and i did not meet any women who had chosen it as a matter of completely free choice. as i said before, many have been the victims of trafficking. in fact, official eu research shows that 62[nbsp ]% of those who are trafficked in the eu are women trafficked for sexual exploitation. very often they are very young women, and very often they are girls. that in itself is appalling enough. in addition to victims of trafficking, there are those who have drug and substance abuse habits. there are many – an unquantifiable number, because statistics are very difficult to find in this area – who work in prostitution who have had very difficult and disturbed backgrounds, and who suffered sexual abuse when they were young; and many, particularly in times of economic crisis, are turning to prostitution through poverty. i contend that none of those are free choices and that prostitution is not a job like any other. in fact, prostitution is absolutely against gender equality, which is why, in my report, i am suggesting that we take very seriously the model which is used in sweden – the nordic model, as we know it – whereby the buyer of sexual services is the one who is criminalised. this has been shown to have reduced levels of prostitution in sweden since 1999 (when it was introduced) by half: a very significant decrease in prostitution. i believe the way to tackle and reduce prostitution is to reduce demand, and the only model that is shown to do this is the model which is currently operating in sweden. so i therefore call on all of you to support this very important report.
blue-card question. – mr lamberts, it is all very well for you, as a green mep, to say that it is a disaster that people are finding the cost of living so high, yet it is your green policies – firstly, not allowing gm crops to be grown properly in europe, which would make food cheaper and, secondly, your crazy energy policies – which are raising the price of energy to every single household. take your green policies out of the equation, and people might be able to afford to live.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, so far this debate has been very predictable. many people, particularly from the left, continue to argue that socialism, spending and more state interference are somehow the answer to europe’s competitiveness crisis. but we must never forget that it was, of course, predominantly the socialists who – particularly in greece – actually took europe to the brink. it is the parties of the centre-right that are slowly dragging it away from the precipice, taking the hard decisions that are slowly returning this continent to growth. much as i enjoyed the minister’s speech this morning, i have to say that there is something deeply ironic about a minister from greece coming here to argue with us and tell us how to reduce youth unemployment. yet many on the left – as mr[nbsp ]swoboda exemplified this morning – are still arguing for more state spending and more centralisation of power. you are still perpetuating the falsehood that states can somehow create jobs or that politicians can somehow legislate to create more employment. surely the experience of recent years shows us that when countries do tighten their belts, spend to invest and restructure their economies, we begin to see the benefits. we are certainly seeing that in my own country. my conservative-led government in britain has stuck with its long-term plan to pay down the deficit, to incite the productive parts of the economy and to reform our welfare system. as a result, the economy is now growing faster than any other major european economy, there are 1.3 million more jobs and unemployment is falling sharply. there is, of course, still much more to do. the economy is not secure but it is going in the right direction. if we compare that to socialist france, public spending there is now equivalent to 56[nbsp ]% of national income, the second highest in the euro area. unemployment is at a 16-year high, taxes have sent wealth abroad and social welfare spending is now the highest in the oecd. president hollande promised us all an end to austerity, but he has actually been mugged by reality because the only way to end austerity is to implement the tough reforms that encourage investment and grow the economy. at eu level, those lessons are starting to apply as well. the debate is already beginning to shift away from protectionism, away from higher spending and an endless stream of red tape and towards open markets, better spending and cutting back on regulation. i welcomed many of the things mr[nbsp ]barroso said on that this morning. i only hope that commissioner andor, sitting behind him, is actually listening, because of course his unemployment department is doing more to make employing people and actually creating more jobs in europe as difficult as possible. for those of us who want to see state spending controlled, the worst possible thing you could do is to give the eu new powers to raise its own revenue through new own resources. i understand that this afternoon mr[nbsp ]schulz and mr[nbsp ]barroso will join with prime minister samaras and mr[nbsp ]monti to launch the new high-level group on own resources. own resources would give the commission and this parliament carte blanche to spend increasing amounts of taxpayers’ money on their special pet projects, which, of course, is why it will never actually happen. that is why the next european elections are also so important. this parliament now has powers to either help our economy to recover or – as it so often does – to actually hinder it. that is why the parties, certainly in my group, will offer an agenda for the eu that mirrors the reforms being taken in many of our member states – to deliver investment and infrastructure instead of wasteful spending, to deliver deregulation and decentralisation instead of interference, and to open up trade and the single market instead of creating more barriers to business. we are proud to have begun that debate about taking the eu in a new direction, away from its socialist and centralising past. it is a debate that many are now starting to pay lip service to, including michel barnier, including even mr[nbsp ]schulz. now it is time to deliver on that agenda so that we can truly make the eu work for its people. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i want to see more people in work in europe. the policies that we are pursuing in the uk are actually generating more jobs – contrast that of course to the socialists and others in france where we are seeing jobs lost. what happens in practice is that conservative centre-right policies are actually delivering the agenda that we all want to see. of course the socialists and the greens can talk a good story, can talk about concern and compassion, but the results on the ground show that their policies are misguided and on the ground do not actually deliver any results.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i have sat here this morning feeling like the odd man out. to me it is beyond parody for the greek finance minister, mr kourkoulas, to come along here and tell us our fortune: the policies are bearing fruit, we are going to tackle unemployment. and no-one says anything! no, because, of course, everybody here is tied up with the same obsession that the euro must and will work; the obsession that you will use the crisis to build a united states of europe. what you could have told them, mr[nbsp ]kourkoulas, is that, according to the respected medical journal the lancet, there are now 800[nbsp ]000 people in greece without access to welfare or medical care. you could have told them that. but even if you had, they would not have listened, so obsessed are they with building the euro. ok, a simple lesson in economics: when you have two countries that are at completely different stages of the economic cycle, one currency needs to devalue. but if those countries are pegged or tied inside the same currency and they cannot devalue, you have to devalue the country – and that is what is happening to the mediterranean. we are devaluing the mediterranean, and it is leaning towards third world status. no amount of socialist state spending can mend this imbalance. it is about time, if people here cared for the citizens of europe, particularly in the south, that we admitted the euro does not work for southern europe and it is time we broke it up and gave countries currencies that reflect their current economic status. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – the point that the late eddie george, governor of the bank of england, made is that it is tough enough to have an interest rate that works for newcastle and london, let alone to have one that works across the whole of europe, so there is a valid economic argument. however, the taxpayers in london do not object strongly to transfers going to newcastle or scotland or wherever they may be needed because we are part of the same country. the problem you have with the euro area is not just this huge economic imbalance between north and south, but that increasingly the taxpayers of the north do not want to go on subsidising the south because there is no sense of european identity. we are very different countries.
mr president, i would also like to concentrate on the gutiérrez prieto report. when our committee decided our position on that, we were very pleased to support the report. it emphasises the social mess that we are in because of the way the crisis has been handled. we have heard about increasing unemployment and increasing poverty. marian harkin spoke very movingly on that subject, and it is clear that, at the moment, it looks as if we have no hope in hell of achieving the eu 2020 goals by that date. this does not mean we should walk away from the targets, of course. we are also very pleased that the demand for an interinstitutional agreement has not been included in this report. that discontent about the lack of democracy, about the real influence of this house – as the people’s representatives – on the annual growth survey and on the country-specific recommendations, is broadly felt here, and in our view a treaty change is not needed to have this interinstitutional agreement. our feeling is that the commission and council should be grabbing this with both hands. i would really like to ask their representatives here whether they are going to take action on the issue and start negotiating such an agreement or not? it is also clear that, if we want the eu 2020 process, the semester, to have democratic legitimacy, we need to involve civil society and social partners much more strongly. at the european level, we have seen a coalition of civil society organisations working very hard over the last few years to gain a meaningful role, and with some success. but we need to see this embedded structurally into this whole process – at national level too. in the uk, we have seen civil society social partners really squeezed out of the process since the change from the past coordination method. we really need to feel that people are on board with this process to actually have a say and to shape it.
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and vice-chair of my committee, sergio gaetano cofferati, for producing a very strong report. i just want to echo very strongly what he said to both the commission and council: when we have this debate in the next parliament, we hope to see the commissioner for the internal market on those benches. this is what the third pillar is all about. i was very pleased that mr kourkoulas and mr barroso – i am sorry he is still not here – both included in their speeches explicit references to the potential of the single market and areas that need to be moved forward in order to create the jobs and growth that we all seek. mr kourkoulas, in particular, mentioned services and the implementation of the services directive. this is what this is all about. this is the third pillar, because it is about the opportunities for jobs, growth and new small businesses for the future. so that is the big message from my committee which i hope will be taken on board. i just want to supplement this by saying, in particular to the commission, to mr[nbsp ]barroso, that we already gave you the instruments by approving in this parliament the single market acts – which were not in your original europe 2020 programme – because we wanted a political programme to complete the key instruments of the single market, so why are you not following those through properly in this semester? why are you not taking the lead from this parliament by giving us a programme for the digital single market? the council asked you for it. this parliament passed a resolution with a large majority in favour. where is the commission’s programme on this key growth instrument?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. eu money plays an important role in sustaining many of europe's coastal communities and it is right we maintain special provisions for member states with financial difficulties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on ensuring that in times of financial instability and economic downturn, there is continuity of fisheries sector projects and investment.
in writing. - i do not support the blanket alignment of many of these provisions to delegated acts and therefore i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i do not support the blanket alignment of many of these provisions to delegated acts and therefore i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i do not support the blanket alignment of many of these provisions to delegated acts and therefore i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an important step in helping meps who have been officially excused from the strasbourg voting sessions in being recognised as such. for example, if an mep were to go on maternity/paternity leave and be officially excused by the president, this will now be officially recorded. labour supports all workers having access to basic rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which concerns a change to the rules, which will now ensure that members who have valid reasons for their absence at plenary sessions are appropriately accounted for.
in writing. - i supported this report, which calls for more transparency regarding the voting sessions of members. final votes in parliamentary committees will now be taken by roll call vote, as well as all final votes in the plenary. i welcome these moves, which will make it easier for eu citizens to follow the results of reports. this report is a positive move to make parliament even more open and transparent and i pleased that labour meps will now be able to prove their voting record on issues of importance for constituents.
madam president, i welcome this long-awaited agreement on reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars by 2020. it gives crucial certainty to car manufacturers across europe. if we want car manufacturers to invest in low carbon technologies, we need to give them this certainty. reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars is vital to fight against air pollution and climate change and also to reduce fuel costs for consumers. we must remember that cars are not produced for one single country, but for a single market of 500 million consumers, as well as for export to the rest of the world, so we need action at an eu level for this to be effective. for all of these reasons we need this agreement adopted today.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it would mean that 5% of the most polluting cars would be excluded from the manufacturers' average for 2020. it would also allow manufacturers to use the supercredit cap flexibly over 3 years, therefore further delaying the 2020 95g/km target. i made a commitment to my constituents in wales to use my vote to combat climate change. if the eu is serious about this then we need strict targets.
in writing. - i voted against this report as i am disappointed that parliament has opted to become less ambitious in terms of emissions targets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as the new 2020 target will save consumers hundreds of pounds a year on fuel costs, and help our car industry stay ahead of the game in the move to the low-carbon future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement. i am satisfied with the outcome of the trilogue negotiations and i am particularly pleased to see that the agreement reached accounts for the change in economic climate that we have seen since the initial proposal of the 2020 target was made, by allowing for a phasing-in of the target.
in writing. - the automotive industry accounts for around 11% of all uk exports. as one of the world’s largest vehicle producers, the 4th largest in the eu, the industry is extremely important to growth and jobs in britain. 2013 saw nearly 1.5 million vehicles leave the production line, representing a 5% increase on the number in 2012. with this in mind, the importance of this report for the uk cannot be understated. i am pleased, therefore, that the report has worked within the parameters of technological and economic realities, approaching the issue with a general sense of pragmatism. this is highlighted in a number of areas, whether it is the exemption for niche manufacturers that produce less than 1[nbsp ]000 vehicles per annum; the phasing-in of the target over one year; or the ‘super-credits’ regime that allows manufacturers to benefit from the production of ultra-low polluting cars that go beyond the minimum targets. finally, in noting my vote in favour of the report, i would like to welcome the restraint exhibited in not setting any indicative or binding targets for co2 emissions that extend beyond 2020.
in writing. - i backed today’s report that brings in to force new co2 emissions targets in the eu. the reduction target, 95mg/km for new cars by 2020, is estimated to save consumers €340 on their fuel costs per year. i welcome the introduction of “super credits”, which is an incentive to manufacturers to produce vehicles with extremely low emissions. i also support wording in the text which calls for a new un defined world light duty test procedure, which i hope will come into force by 2017 – this will enable customers choosing new cars to get better, more reliable information about the fuel efficiency of vehicles, and in turn, make more informed choices about what cars they buy.
in writing. - i supported this report, which will set a 2020 target for fuel efficiency of cars. with 12[nbsp ]% of europeʼs greenhouse gases currently coming from passenger cars, an ambitious target is essential for ensuring the eu remains on course to meet our emissions reduction targets. in addition, the proposed target of 95g co2/km by 2020 is expected to save consumers eur[nbsp ]340 a year in fuel costs, while new test standards will ensure that the miles per gallon information provided when purchasing a car will be closer to reality. incentives for manufacturers to go further and develop cars with much lower emissions will ensure the euʼs car industry remains competitive by encouraging the development of more fuel efficient technology.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is the latest reform of the eu trade mark system. i believe this will streamline and modernise the current eu trade mark registration systems. it will also help member state governments in the fight against counterfeit goods. i believe this will all help to foster growth and create more jobs, which is a key aim of labour in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive and regulation as modernisation of eu trademark rules will help foster innovation and growth by making trademark registration cheaper and easier for businesses. i support a more efficient and reliable trademark registration system and recognise the importance of the fight against counterfeit goods.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which concerns improvements to the existing law for trademarks, in this case with regard to the community trademark, and forms part of wider efforts to improve the functioning of intellectual property rights within the eu.
madam president, i would like to use this discussion on the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime to again throw a spotlight on the prevalence of organised crime and, indeed, fuel laundering in my own constituency of northern ireland. the police service of northern ireland recently confirmed that there are 145 criminal gangs operating there, and over 1[nbsp ]000 people are involved in this crime as a day job. only last week, three fuel laundering plants were disrupted by officers of her majesty’s revenue and customs. these plants were capable of producing 26 million gallons of illegal fuel per year, robbing the public purse of gbp 18[nbsp ]million. this was a good news story in the fight against organised crime, except that the officers will be back in a few months’ time doing exactly the same thing because the masterminds behind the crime are not behind bars. this is partly because nationalist political parties refuse to allow the uk national crime agency to operate fully within northern ireland. our forces are fighting crime with one hand tied behind their back.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. this is a proposal for a directive, i.e. an instruction to the uk to pass legislation. ukip opposes all such laws. in addition this contains requirements concerning confiscation of assets without conviction in certain cases. the uk already has similar legislation. ukip tends to oppose the giving to the state of draconian powers of (often) arbitrary confiscation in the absence of a criminal conviction. we support, however, reasonable and proportionate measures for deprivation of assets where a criminal conviction has been registered after a fair trial. in addition, this report proposes the implementation of criminal legislation at the diktat of the eu, to which we are specifically opposed.
in writing. - in line with tackling tax havens and fraud, i voted in favour of this on the profits of organised crime. the criminal activities can include corruption, fraud, counterfeiting, cybercrime, trafficking in drugs and trafficking in human beings, the modern form of slavery that has already affected wales. we need a strong european approach with respect to freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of the crime.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. my own country has not, at this stage, opted in to this legislation but the scottish government is open to doing so in the future and is not generally opposed to its terms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will set minimum standards for member state governments when seizing the property and goods of criminals. it is important for the eu to have corresponding standards on this practice and it will prevent criminals preferring to keep goods in certain european countries. as these are minimum standards, member states will still have a lot of flexibility and control over how much they can seize from criminals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive as i support the harmonisation of member statesʼ freezing and confiscation regimes by way of minimum rules, to facilitate mutual trust and effective cross-border cooperation.
in writing. - i support the overall aims of this report to help implement tools and standards across europe which are already widely used in the uk. however at present the uk government has not opted in to this directive and therefore i chose to abstain in this vote.
in writing. - i supported today’s report, which will make it easier for national authorities to freeze property with a view to possible confiscation and the confiscation of property in relation to criminal matters. statistics show that only 1% of the proceeds from crimes such as drug trafficking and small arms smuggling, are frozen or confiscated. this directive sets out the minimum requirements, but of course member states can go further. the new rules will also allow the confiscation of assets that are acquired through corruption in the private and public sectors and participation in criminal organizations or cybercrime. i believe that adopting a minimum level for these rules across the eu is a positive move that will help improve situations for national authorities.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against any accretion of extra power or empire-building by the eu. trade mark law is well-developed in the uk and we should retain power over such legislation at westminster in the interests of uk business.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which concerns improvements to the existing law for trademarks, in this case with regard to national trademark systems, and forms part of wider efforts to improve the functioning of intellectual property rights within the eu.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. this marks a further step in the onward march of europol, the agency which is the prototype fbi for the eu. ukip has no problem with the concept of uk police co-operating with foreign entities such as europol under the laws of the uk and the supervision of parliament. this agency, however, is a top-down imposition. it forms part of the on-going salami-slicing by which the eu is creating for itself all the baggage and impedimenta of a sovereign independent state, in this instance a fully-fledged police and judicial system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. whilst europol has an important role to play in countering cross-border crime, it is important that appropriate checks and balances are in place. i consider that this report achieves the correct balance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will establish a european agency for law enforcement, which was set out in the treaty of lisbon. the report will strengthen the european parliament’s role in this agency, thus making it more democratic. it also rejects the commission’s proposals to merge europol and cepol, which will ensure that cepol remains fully independent.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation as i support increased democratic governance and parliamentary scrutiny of europol and a strengthened data protection regime.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report today. i support these efforts to refine the work of europol, however i do have some concerns about the overly enhanced scrutiny role for the european parliament and the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. - i have always supported europol, and it has frequently demonstrated its value for the purpose of facilitating contact between different police forces. modern-day crime rarely limits itself to national borders, and the internet in particular can answer to no single nation state. nevertheless, europol has shown key deficiencies, particularly in the field of data protection and in its ill-defined relation to interpol. in particular, i have in the last few months been working with the uk-based fair trials international to ascertain whether europol may ever unwittingly facilitate arrests on political grounds, and how far data is secured when it circulates its own information to third parties. i am therefore happy to endorse this report, which goes some way towards strengthening the checks and balances on europol as well as making it a more efficient agency. the report goes further than we would like on some matters and perhaps not far enough in others, but it is clear that we need to continue our work to strengthen this vital body, as well as to ensure that its data processing and protection is both well-coordinated and responsible.
in writing. - this technical, but important report, which aims to bring the europol agency in to line with the lisbon treaty, will strengthen the democratic governance and parliamentary scrutiny and oversight of europol. thanks to the changes, the european parliament will receive more information from europol, such as annual work programmes, activity reports and general situation reports. the report also strengthens and clarifies data protection and will give the european data protection supervisor overall supervision.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. we are further firmly against any proposal that increases the opportunities for uncontrolled immigration into the uk. this will inevitably make it easy for persons from non-eu countries to enter and settle in the uk without any form of control by the uk government or parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which amends the “students’ directive” on the conditions of admission of third country nationals for the purposes of studies, pupil exchange, unremunerated training or voluntary service. the directive allows the existing rules for students and researchers to also apply to unpaid trainees and au-pairs. this at last gives au pairs a legal framework for access to work. until now they have not been protected under any legislation. i published a report this week that mentions the importance of wales of attracting students and trainees and enabling them to contribute to building our economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as legal migration instruments are a refreshing development in the euʼs efforts to develop a rational and positive approach to migration more generally.
in writing. - whilst i am supportive of efforts to attract young skilled individuals from elsewhere in the world to the eu, i feel that decisions regarding measures to attract and regulate the admission of knowledge migrants should be taken at member state level. for this reason i could not support this report today.
in writing. - as with so many of the reports that pass through this chamber, the ambitions and motivations behind the recommendations in this particular case are well intentioned, yet go far beyond the remit of the eu and pay little observation to the notion of subsidiarity, upon which the union is founded. in establishing a legal framework for member states relating to third-country nationals in this regard, the eu would be depriving member states of setting regimes that work for their own individual needs and wants. i believe, as does the uk government, that measures to attract and regulate the admission of knowledge migrants are best dealt with at national level, and it is for member states to decide how far they wish to adjust their immigration policies in the pursuit of attracting greater number of foreign students for example. furthermore, at a time when there is much debate within the uk on the subject of eu migrants’ receipt of social security benefits, a report which seeks to afford third-country national researchers equal access to social security as their british and eu taxpaying counterparts would be particularly unwelcomed by my electorate.
in writing. - i support today’s report which calls for better living and working standards for migrants from third countries. the eu wants to attract talented non eu students and researchers, for example, in order to improve competitiveness in the eu. i agree that rules for certain migrants need to be better defined; for example trainees, volunteers and au pairs need to know what their entry requirements and residence conditions are. i also support the move to allow students and researchers to stay in the eu for up to a year after they have finished their studies in order to look for work and to have more time to set up businesses.
madam president, i fully support the strengthening of humanitarian aid efforts in times of crisis. first and foremost, it is my belief that enhanced cross-border cooperation amongst aid organisations throughout eu member states is vital to ensure an effective response and a targeted approach to aid efforts in disaster-stricken areas. with the number and scale of humanitarian crises across the globe increasing significantly, it is clear that an overarching initiative to aid relief can be useful in providing more meaningful relief on the ground. this can in part be achieved by the establishment of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, with highly-trained specialist volunteers, to respond to the specific needs of those in distress across the globe.
in writing. - the eu scheme for humanitarian aid volunteers is more likely to add bureaucracy than value or extra volunteers. leave it to states, co-operating together as needed. ukip is voting against this report.
in writing. - i supported this report and hope that the proposed european corps can add value to the work already carried out by organisations within our member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it will establish a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. this will mean that the eu can undertake humanitarian work with a pool of volunteers. this will not undertake work in response to armed conflicts or internal disturbances, and will be only used in response to man-made or natural disasters. this will help the eu express solidarity with people when they most need it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of ms striffler’s report on the creation of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps (evhac). provision for evhac was made during the lisbon treaty negotiations in article 214(5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. more directly, it was felt that the eu needed to match the actual quantity of humanitarian aid it has given with a similar level of presence on-the-ground. this is important in my view, as there is often a misconception that humanitarian aid given by the eu, which accounts for more than half of all international official humanitarian aid, is somehow being misspent. with a €147.9 million budget, the evhac will not only increase the eu's presence at man-made crises or natural disasters however, but it will also afford young europeans an excellent opportunity to contribute in areas that are less fortunate than our own. i have always advocated for local people from northern ireland to explore new cultures and horizons. complementing existing volunteer schemes, evhac would allow our young people to make a significant and important contribution, and i am glad to see the main humanitarian aid ngos are supportive of the commission's proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i support the creation of a voluntary humanitarian corps to be deployed only in response to humanitarian crises, and never armed conflicts. strict budget monitoring means that this body will provide the euʼs humanitarian action with genuine added value, helping those in need. eighteen conservative meps abstained from voting for this proposal, and six ukip meps voted against.
in writing. - this proposal will establish the framework of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. i fully support the important role volunteers play, but i do have some concerns with regard to the added value and value for money of this proposal, and so for this reason i opted to abstain.
in writing. - the eu is the world’s largest donor of humanitarian aid and when there are specific humanitarian crises, i believe that the deployment of ‘eu aid volunteersʼ is vital. this ‘corpsʼ will not be involved in any armed conflicts or peace resolution processes but will be there to help those in vulnerable, disaster-stricken places. ngos will be able to take part in the scheme, but only once approved by the commission, and then specific training of volunteers will take place. i am pleased that an interim evaluation of the programme will take place and believe that the budget for this needs to be monitored carefully throughout.
in writing. - i voted against the costello report on the fund for european aid to the most deprived. our government strongly supports measures to tackle poverty and social exclusion. but it does not believe that the fund for european aid to the most deprived will be an effective way of doing this. we were one of a number of member states which argued that this was an area of national competence and we have not participated in the previous food-bank schemes since the mid-1990s. both houses of parliament have adopted reasoned opinions stating that the commissionʼs proposal is inconsistent with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - i abstained on this report as a whole as ukip does not wish to deny help to those who are in most need, wherever they are in the eu. ukip would like to point out that the very existence of such a legislative report is an admission of the failures of the eu’s policies and the single european currency.
in writing. - ukip abstained on this report as a whole as we do not wish to deny help to those who are in most need, wherever they are in the eu. ukip would like to point out that the very existence of such a legislative report is an admission of the failures of the eu’s policies and the single european currency
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in line with the europe 2020 strategy, the union and the member states have set themselves the objective of having at least 20 million fewer people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by 2020. nonetheless, in 2011, nearly one quarter of europeans (119.82 million) were at risk-of-poverty or social exclusion, approximately 4 million people more than in the previous year. in wales a third of children live in poverty and foodbanks are on the increase. the aim of the fund is to help reduce poverty, and eradicate the worst forms of poverty, such as homelessness, child poverty and food deprivation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. nevertheless, it is wholly unacceptable that across the eu so many of our citizens are in need of vital aid to survive. my own country has seen a 170% rise in the use of food banks in the last year on account of the uk government's continued attacks on welfare. it is disgusting that these facts exist in an oil-rich country in the 21st century.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it shows parliament’s support for the outcome of trialogue negotiations on the commission’s proposals. this is a fund that could help the uk government deliver on fund banks and other initiatives that ensure that food, money and support gets to those who need it most in this time of financial and social crisis. i am disappointed that the uk government has worked to water down these proposals and will not be supporting it.
in writing. - i support this legislative resolution. many uk citizens are suffering from the cost-of-living crisis and now live in poverty, including those in work. this is a badly-needed fund that could be drawn from to support food banks and other social inclusion initiatives to help support the most deprived. twenty conservative meps voted against this report which would provide invaluable help for uk food banks.
in writing. - i strongly support measures to tackle poverty and social exclusion; however i do not believe that this fund for european aid to the most deprived will be an effective way of achieving this. money for food banks and other such worthy projects should be made available to member states to be utilised locally in the way that they deem most effective; therefore i could not support this report today.
in writing. - i supported today’s vote to maintain eur[nbsp ]3.5 billion for the fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead). thanks to parliament we will not see the eur[nbsp ]1 billion cut that member states, like the uk, wanted to achieve. with around 24[nbsp ]% of the eu’s population at risk of poverty or social exclusion it is clear that action needs to be taken. the eu, in its 2020 strategy has set a target to lift 20[nbsp ]million people out of poverty and social exclusion by 2020. fead is an important tool we need to use if the eu is to achieve these aims. the fund will provide funding for food banks across the eu, as well as material goods such as shoes for children. the scope has also been broadened to include spending on social inclusion measures. i am disappointed that the uk government did everything they could to fight against this fund and that they are only going to draw on the minimum resources available to them. i am further disheartened to see that uk tory meps voted against this legislation; this once again demonstrates how out of touch they are and how little they want to help those most in need.
in writing. - this report puts in place the legislation needed to apply the fund for european aid for the most deprived. with a budget of eur[nbsp ]3.5 billion, the fund will be used to provide food, clothes and other assistance to those who are suffering the most under austerity and the cost-of-living crisis. in the eu, 125[nbsp ]million people are at risk of poverty and social exclusion and more than half a million people in the uk turned to food banks in the last year alone. labour meps therefore fully support the report and would like to see the fund used to ensure that food, money and support get to those most in need. we were disappointed that tory meps once again voted against the report and that the uk government will not be claiming for ‘material assistanceʼ, effectively preventing britainʼs food banks from accessing gbp[nbsp ]3 million in aid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these amendments as they are necessary to correct the unintended consequences which resulted from the original regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this amending proposal and i welcome its adoption, which should now guarantee the correct functioning of the biocidal products regulation and ensure that we avoid any unintended restrictions or barriers to trade arising from errors in the drafting of the original regulation.
madam president, in order to be considered for membership of the european union, a member state must meet the conditions established in the copenhagen criteria and must adhere to article 6 of the treaty on european union. article 6 states that the union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy and respect for human rights and on fundamental freedoms. it is sensible therefore to assume that protecting women from violence forms part of the principle of respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. a member state which allows violence against women to occur, without legal consequences, should be removed from the european union. it is my view that all member states have national legislation which criminalises gender-based violence. i would like to see the member states better enforce their legislation. i voted against this report today because, quite simply, i do not see the need for eu legislation in this area. eu law should be made with a view to adding value to existing national laws. the question we really should address today is why member states are not implementing and enforcing suitable national legislation to stop violence against women.
madam president, i very much share the committee’s desire to tackle the prevalence of violent crimes against women and girls in our society. as the report highlights, violence against women is taking ever more unacceptable forms. we have only to think of the impact of human trafficking – modern-day slavery – and the impact this has on the lives of millions of victims who are being sold into an unending ordeal of sexual exploitation and abuse. it is right and just that member states put in place robust legislative frameworks to prosecute offenders, as well as providing support to their victims through the legal process. i also wholeheartedly support the premise of allowing victims of abuse to tell their stories in order to encourage a halt to these appalling injustices. i think specifically today of those in my own constituency who are currently telling their stories of historical institutional abuse. these are people whose lives have been traumatised by the brutality imposed on them, often by religious orders. european governments will fail if they do not deal with these issues of violence against men and women.
in writing. - i very much share the committeeʼs desire to tackle the prevalence of violent crimes against women and girls in our society. as this report rightly highlights, violence against women and girls is now taking even more unacceptable forms. we think of the impact of human trafficking – modern day slavery – on the lives of millions of victims who are sold into an unending ordeal of sexual exploitation and abuse. and it is therefore right and just that the member states put in place robust legislative frameworks to prosecute offenders, as well as to protect and provide support for their victims throughout the legal process. however, it is not for the commission to dictate these policies. as the report stresses, however, i do wholeheartedly support the premise of allowing female victims of abuse to tell their stories in order to encourage a halt to these appalling injustices.
in writing. - i have campaigned for many years for more effective legislation to prevent domestic violence and i voted in favour of this report. currently, there is no comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women. around 20-25 per cent of women in europe have experienced physical violence at least once during their adult lives. the report requests the commission to propose, by the end of 2014 measures to promote and support the work of member states in preventing violence against women and girls. i am pleased to support the action this week of my party of wales colleague elfyn llwyd mp in leading a cross party bill in the house of commons that would criminalise all aspects of domestic violence.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on these recommendations which deal with an important issue. violence remains an all too common factor in many women's lives and both the eu and the member states have a duty to eradicate this violence from society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it addresses one of the key priorities of parliament’s femm committee during this legislature – violence against women. this remains a huge problem in scotland and we must continue to work against its continuing prevalence.
in writing. - i support this own-initiative report as i condemn violence against women and support the need for a legislative proposal to introduce preventative and combatting measures.
in writing. - i do not condone violence against women and girls in any form. however, i do not believe that an eu criminal law instrument in this area would be effective. member states should and do have in place national criminal law in this regard and i believe they should be fully implementing and enforcing these national laws in order to tackle this important issue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i understand the need for further guidelines in relation to delegated and implementing acts and support the reportʼs recommendations, which will guide members and staff in their legislative work.
in writing. - i could not support this report, as i would prefer to see a more flexible approach adopted, in which the need for delegated powers can be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
in writing. - i voted against the de backer report on the european semester. while the report is in the main part acceptable and supports conservative priorities such as structural reforms, tax simplification and a stronger single market in services, there are too many concessions made to the left. these include federalist measures such as own resources, community method approaches to intergovernmental matters and the introduction of the convergence and competitiveness instrument.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. this own-initiative report has some positive points, and points out: a) that the widening interest rate spreads have significantly reduced the room for manoeuvre as regards fiscal policy in a number of member states; b) the lack of ambitious reforms to enhance competitiveness; c) the importance of rectifying excessive deficit situations and current account imbalances; d) that the member states and the commission are not delivering on their commitment to complete the single market; e) that the annual growth survey does not provide the means to achieve its objectives; f) that most member states are still losing market shares globally and have a large negative net international investment position; g) only two of the member states have attained their medium-term objective. but it also has the wrong solutions, including its view that the fiscal situation of the member states can be eased through a new system of own resources to finance the union budget.
in writing. - i voted against paragraph 44 of this report. whilst the eu has an important role to play in the coordination of economic policy, that role does not, and should not, extend to the union raising its own resources.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this report as although the european parliament labour party believes that eu financing does need reforming, we do not necessarily believe that this should be done through our own resources.
in writing. - this report on the european semester calls for a number of initiatives which i cannot support, and, as ultimately i do not believe the eu should have a say in the determining of member states’ budgets, i chose to vote against this report today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i share the view that youth unemployment, long-term unemployment, and the need for quality jobs and decent salaries should be addressed in order to combat the current high cost-of-living crisis.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report which makes several calls for initiatives (including legislation) on aspects of employment and social affairs which i feel the member states are best placed to address.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against: this report is a typical example of the corporatism the eu encourages: it calls for an enhanced role for the eu to intervene in the sector.
in writing. - it is important that eu agriculture continues to invest in research and innovation within the plant breeding sector. the eu has over recent years stalled in its progress both in preserving the diverse plant species which we have but also moving forward in creating new and improved species through traditional techniques or by adopting new technology. of course any progress on this front must be carried out in a way which is scientifically proven; in a way that does not affect what is currently available and adds value to the agriculture sector. i fear that if we do not embrace such technology the eu will be left behind and our farmers will be left at an even greater competitive disadvantage than is currently the case. and to add to the irony of the situation, we in the eu will import food produced through the use of such technologies for eu consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the plant breeding report. i was particularly pleased that the amendments i tabled which addressed the issue of community plant variety rights were included in the final version of the report. it takes significantly longer to identify, trial and generate commercial stock of raspberry varieties than other crops such as barley, for example. this is a particularly important issue for scottish plant breeders and the amendments i had tabled will go some way to reducing costs for the production of clonally propagated crops such as raspberries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which highlights key issues concerning the activity of plant breeding, which we will need to address if we are to maintain food security for the future and ensure the competitiveness of the european plant breeding and seed sector.
mr president, the fourth railway package removes choice and dictates how to run a railway. currently, member states choose to directly award public service contracts or organise competitive tenders. this is yet another eu one-size-fits-all imposition inflicted on the uk, stopping any government from even considering alternatives to the current failed uk privatised model of railways. so this eu package imposes: one, a dramatic cost escalation due to fragmentation; two, tax increases due to private train company subsidies; three, passengers facing the highest rail fares in europe; four, minimal investment because profits are given to shareholders instead of reinvesting. directly-operated railways on the east coast mainline prove that publicly owned and operated railways deliver increased performance, with much lower subsidy than private operators. uk governments must have the freedom to implement alternative models in line with the interests of passengers and of taxpayers. the uk government must run its own affairs without eu interference in uk sovereignty. all the uk really needs is independence.
mr president, the fourth railway package needs to deliver a more competitive railway industry that provides for passengers and the economy alike by reducing costs and gaining market share, particularly from the roads. it can only do this through a single market in railway certification and rolling stock, through increased competition in services, and strong rules of governance between the infrastructure manager and railway companies. without a single market in railways, railway safety certification and rolling stock, this will mean that costs are much higher than necessary. poor interoperability also makes it inefficient for trains to cross borders. however, the technical aspects that we now need to be sorted out are not enough on their own to make our railways more competitive. there is no point in being interoperable if the markets are not open to competition. opening up of the domestic market could save around 30% in costs and thereby increase market share. reducing costs could finally mean reducing ticket prices for passengers. another crucial point is organisational structure of the rail networks. some rail companies that could be interested in competing across europe, and could offer a wide range of attractive options to passengers, are not willing to do so because of the lack of independent governance. it is most likely that, in every case, infrastructure managers are going to favour their in-house operators and to shut the door on new entrants. i hope colleagues will think twice on what they want to achieve with this package before voting tomorrow. if they do want a more competitive railway industry, greener transport, reduced prices for passengers, reduced charges for freight and a modal shift from road to rail, they need to vote against those amendments that will undermine exactly these things.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have contributed to this debate and the report. in my constituency of northern ireland, we have the unique position of being the only part of the united kingdom with a land border with another member state, thus our designation as an isolated network is extremely important for our rail network. our regional authorities have made provision for suitable liberalisation of domestic passenger transport services by rail; now we must improve our network. the department of regional development and the minister in northern ireland have proposed a belfast transport hub which consolidates and builds on improvements to the cork-dublin-belfast-stranraer railway axis which has helped to reduce passenger journey times between the island of ireland, north and south, and the united kingdom and the rest of europe. this, i believe, is a very exciting project. that said, there is a requirement to increase rail capacity further, to cope with the current and projected levels of traffic and to practically strengthen economic and social links with the rest of the european union. i would urge the european union to support any such development.
mr president, the title ‘fourth railway package’ really says it all for me, and that is that the eu is just no good at overseeing the railways of europe. ukip, my party, has been voting against this so-called harmonisation for 15 years now, because we know it is difficult in the uk. we have a victorian network, the oldest in the world, but quite why brussels needs to harmonise the trains of the uk, which is an island, with the rest of the continent, is anyone’s guess. hs1 and the channel tunnel were financial disasters, with shares crashing and people losing huge amounts of money. but now we have hs2, because the european union tells us we have to do so. in 2002 the eu took the british government to court because we were failing to fulfil our obligations under the trans-european rail system directive and now we have high speed rail 2 (hs2). the eu-sponsored hs2 will be costly, pointless and unfair, because it will punish the many to benefit the few, and i guarantee that those few will be the rich few. if hs2 were such a good idea, then the business community would come up with the money, but of course they will not because they know it is just another expensive eu vanity project. therefore the bill for this drive for harmonisation will fall on the british taxpayer and that, i believe – and my party believes – is grossly unfair, unneeded, unwanted, and that is why we are committed to scrapping hs2.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i welcome the revision of this occurrence-reporting regulation. the fact is, improved reporting and analysis of any occurrences inevitably enhances aviation safety. this was the reason in 2003 that, as the rapporteur, i was responsible for putting in place a system for mandatory reporting across europe. but regrettably we have been in a position where some member states have not put in place the correct procedures. in addition, we also had 13 new countries, which needed to comply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her input on this report, which i see as a move in the right direction. i hope we can continue to push for further improved standards. it was vital that we emphasise the core message of the revision, that of a ‘just culture’, as this is paramount to any transparent system. however, we are still unable to address some of the challenges the differing legal systems bring us. it is unfortunate that we are still in a position where we cannot find a common definition of ‘gross negligence’, but this was always going to be rather difficult, owing to the different legal interpretations across the eu. the reason we have the safest aviation industry in the world is because we have worked on finding out the factual reasons for any accidents or incidents, rather than blaming any single individual – and long may that remain. i hope that we can move forward on the voluntary reporting system which has been standard practice in some member states, and particularly in the uk, for more than 20 years. employees should be able to report incidents in a confident and open manner which, of course, should be acted upon by the employer immediately. and finally, to conclude on a lighter note, i am delighted that we have been able to remove costly and undue regulatory burdens for home-built, classic and vintage aircraft from the scope of this regulation and long may they continue to entertain the general public.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all, can i say that as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which has been the lead committee on vehicle technology, i want to thank ms[nbsp ]sehnalová very much, both as chair and also as her shadow rapporteur as well. i particularly want to record my thanks to the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs with whom we worked very closely together. now, as a number of colleagues have pointed out, this is not in any sense a new proposal, nor indeed is the technology particularly new. the issue has been the willingness of all the member states to decide finally to make a move to adopt the technology, in terms of providing the network to receive the information, and also, in this type-approval proposal which makes it a compulsory fitment in every vehicle, and all the standards are clearly set out in this proposal. i think it is worth reflecting on why it has taken so long, because obviously this is quite a complex issue. but of course the issues around privacy and other things have been known for ten years or more. it is interesting that these came up relatively at the last moment in this proposal, although it was clear from the beginning, and ms[nbsp ]sehnalová was quite clear, that we had addressed all the privacy issues. because, of course, the data that is signalled from ecall is not personal data – because it does not actually apply to an individual. it is actually linked to that vehicle. the sim card that sends the signal about the nature of the accident itself is linked to the vehicle. it does not actually tell you who is driving the vehicle. but there is a lot of important data there that will be transmitted – how many passengers there are in the vehicle, the severity of the crash itself – to help decide what sort of intervention you may need. that will be automatically triggered by the airbag. we have to remember: the reason we can do this is because cars have become so much more safe. they have more airbag systems within the vehicle that enable survivability for longer, which is why you need that critical time now where people might not previously have survived accidents. that is why it is an idea whose time has come and like an airbag itself – a driver’s airbag – i do not think that you should be able to switch it off, because it is a part of the vehicle safety system.
mr president, last year over 1[nbsp ]700 people were killed on roads in the uk. although that death toll is falling, and in international terms it is actually a good statistic, it is still too high. installing the ecall device could save more lives by speeding up response times by a few critical minutes. currently, the installation is only voluntary and only 0.4% of cars are fitted with the device. this is a good reason why installation of the devices should be mandatory – i say installation, as whether these should be turned on or not is a different matter. because of the voluntary aspect, ecall is mainly offered at the moment in luxury cars. i would like to stress two points that are absolutely essential for me as a liberal democrat, which are that the privacy of individuals is to be guaranteed in every case and that the gps coordinates shall strictly be used by the rescue teams for that rescue purpose. last but not least, member states need to ensure that the whole rescue chain is ecall ready – from mobile phone coverage to emergency control centres – so that the consumer has full confidence in the system. of course, this means having a workable mobile phone network and reception throughout all of the member states. in that way, we can ensure that there will be a system that is fit for the purpose and delivers greater safety for road users.
mr president, speaking as the green shadow rapporteur on the de backer report, we agree that any measures to improve road safety should be seriously investigated. the terrible death toll on european roads throws down a stark challenge to reduce deaths and injuries. however, our group is not convinced that a mandatory eu-wide ecall system as currently prescribed is the best alternative. more lives could be saved, for example, if speed limits were cut by 10 km/hour. such a policy would also be cheaper and would achieve real casualty reductions. we have concerns about the possibility of the eu having to co-fund the system, about data protection issues, and the increased likelihood of false alarms through the automated systems. finally, the suggestion that the driver of the vehicle should be able to turn off the machine seems to undermine and complicate the entire idea. my group will not be supporting either of the reports.
mr president, i think all of us in this chamber obviously support improving road safety measures and we wish to promote more cross-border cooperation between member states’ police and emergency services. the roads in the uk are consistently amongst the safest in the world, but there is always room for improvement. however, we do not support the mandatory deployment of the ecall system. there are still serious questions that must be answered regarding the cost of implementation and the technical infrastructure. a recent study indicated that the mandatory deployment of ecall, in the uk alone, would cost approximately gbp 300 million a year. there is also no mention of the additional costs and burdens that would be imposed on the car industry and, of course, on the public, who may not actually want this tracker device in their car. in addition, there are serious issues that have been raised regarding data protection and which have been identified by colleagues in the chamber. we must take that on board. from our point of view, we certainly support a continued voluntary approach in this area. we believe that passengers should have the choice about what they want, and we believe that the right way forward is to improve safety on our roads by also enforcing other things that we can do, and which have been raised in this chamber. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i think i have managed to understand your question ms[nbsp ]ţicău, but i do not think anybody knows. nobody knows. it is very hard to come up with facts and figures about what something that is fairly hypothetical is going to achieve. i would just reiterate and reinforce that there are a number of measures where we can actually improve road safety on our roads and of course we can have much better cooperation across borders. so i am afraid, ms[nbsp ]ţicău, that there is no answer to the question. we are all working in the same direction, in the right direction, and we must continue to do so, but our position is that it should be a voluntary way forward and we think that that will get the best results.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - madam president, as rapporteur for the report by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, this debate has taken some time to get to plenary. the overall aim of the insurance mediation recast was to restore consumer confidence and ensure consumer protection in the insurance market. the eu insurance market is fragmented but for our consumers and customers there are significant inconsistencies, especially regarding information requirements. this means that customers are more likely to misunderstand the risks, costs and features of an insurance product. policyholder protection, as well as selling practices for different kinds of insurance, need to be improved. i am not convinced that this recast properly reflects these specific consumer concerns. i would like to have seen parliament go for a bolder and more ambitious position for consumers than the report that is being presented by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. furthermore, i am very disappointed to see that this recast feels the need to change alternative dispute rules (adr) and binding decisions when adr has only very recently been agreed on by this parliament. this is of particular concern for those countries that have gone further. if you take the uk as an example, the financial ombudsman has the power to introduce binding decisions on businesses in favour of consumers. so this recast will potentially weaken protection for consumers. this is very worrying, especially when on this issue the rest of europe should be trying to meet the highest measures of consumer standards, and certainly countries that go further should not be held back by this particular proposal. it saddens me that due to the issue of adr i will be unable to support the report as it stands.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i should like to thank ms[nbsp ]grossetête, who has done an excellent job. i am really pleased that we have reached agreement on the next public health programme. i am also pleased that we have dropped the original name of health for growth. whilst of course there are economic benefits to improving health, our primary concern should always be the people affected, and ensuring we can all lead happier and healthier lives. sadly, this has been forgotten in some member states, including my own, as public healthcare systems are slowly being dismantled. at least we have restored that principle of putting health first here in this programme. whilst the modest budget will not be able to address all of the public health challenges we face, it can go a long way. hospitals, charities, patient groups and universities can use this funding to collaborate on a wide range of projects. we need to work together across europe to tackle the problems that affect us all, whether it is finding the best way to screen for cervical cancer, providing the right care for patients with neurodegenerative diseases in the face of an ageing population, or preventing childhood obesity. i would like to see a special emphasis on prevention. so many chronic diseases, including heart disease, cancer, respiratory diseases and diabetes can be caused by tobacco, alcohol and unhealthy food. we need to seriously look at how these products are marketed, sold and consumed across europe if we are to have any hope of tackling the huge and rising burden of chronic disease across europe. i therefore very much welcome projects under this programme that focus on these risk factors. i also hope we will have more of an emphasis on mental health, which is so inextricably linked with physical health and too often ignored. finally, it is very helpful that we have managed to reach an agreement on extra funding for large projects involving member states with low average incomes. we know the majority of the current funding is used by the bigger, wealthier, member states. we have to make sure this is truly a pan-european programme which improves the health of citizens – all citizens – in the eu.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, whose report i support. i would have liked us to have had a first-reading agreement this evening, but sadly the member states have let us down. however, this should not distract us from the importance of this subject. accessing online information and services offers great opportunities to improve public services, facilitate civic participation, support education and fight against social exclusion. e-accessibility and web accessibility have been recognised as a key priority, both at eu and un level. in 2006 the riga eu ministerial declaration on an inclusive information society made a commitment to make all public websites accessible by 2010. eight years on, despite political and legal commitments, web accessibility is still far from being a reality in europe. deaf, blind and partially-sighted citizens continue to be disproportionately affected by the accessibility of websites and, according to the commission’s own research, less than 40% of public sector websites are accessible for people with disabilities. this, coupled with the fact that regular internet usage by the 60-75 year old age bracket is just 28%, means that more must be done to make the internet accessible to everyone. that is why i welcome this report, which has redefined and broadened the scope. not only will e-accessibility benefit people with disabilities and the older generation, but devices and services designed on the basis of accessibility requirements are easier and more comfortable to use for everyone. i welcome this report, and i am only saddened, as i have said, that there is no-one from the greek presidency here. but i welcome the rapporteur’s hard work as well as that of the shadows.
blue-card question. – mr[nbsp ]berlinguer, the common european sales law will reduce consumer protection in my country and in other countries as well, for example, germany. can you explain how this will improve consumer confidence? for example a german consumer buying something over the internet in the united kingdom will enjoy a lower level of consumer protection if the business decides to use this optional instrument and, contrary to what mr[nbsp ]zwiefka, said earlier, it is not for both parties to agree; it is the business that decides, not the consumer. i have to say what i thought you said was completely flawed. i would welcome your response.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the common european sales law, or cesl, as we call it, is a deeply flawed system that complicates consumer law and increases costs for businesses. stakeholders from consumer groups and business organisations have queued up to condemn this new proposal, and i would love to hear from ms reding or someone else in this chamber: if it is so good why does beuc (the european consumers’ organisation) campaign against it? we are not proposing to simplify the law but to add a new, 29th regime into the eu. cesl is an optional instrument for e-commerce, but it will be for businesses to decide when it applies, not consumers. in her remarks, ms reding said this would benefit small businesses, because they would not have to deal with 28 legal systems. does that sound optional to you for the consumer? mr zwiefka says: oh no, the consumer will be able to choose whether to use it. will he? how will he be able to choose it if, according to ms reding, that small business will not have to deal with 28 systems? the answer is, of course, that it will be the business that chooses. what will happen is that there will be a little box that you have to tick, and if you do not tick it, you will not be able to complete the transaction. either mr zwiefka or ms reding is wrong. you cannot both be right on this subject. i would love to know whether you two had a conversation about this, because what you are saying is completely contradictory. i fear that this proposal will undermine and fragment the single market. it will reduce consumer confidence, and i am left asking why we are debating this issue at all. i think the answer is in this chamber: the answer is ms reding, because this is a vanity project. unfortunately she supports it just because it introduces a new body of european law, and in her rather strange view of the world, anything that increase the power of the eu at the expense of the member states, however flawed it is, must be a good thing – no matter that consumers and businesses are against it. my group will vote against this proposal, and i know that there are large numbers in the epp and the s&d who will support ms gebhardt’s motion to reject this proposal. i hope we do. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well, i am a grateful for someone who is honest and who actually says that small businesses will insist on cesl and impose it on consumers. but i do not think that the issue of consumer rights is probably the biggest obstacle to cross-border trade. i suspect it is an issue of language. consumers will not use a website in another country unless it talks to them in their own language, and i would have thought that businesses that want to sell to consumers across the eu have to have websites in 24 different languages. i suspect that language is the biggest single obstacle to cross-border selling.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, 120[nbsp ]years ago, the british parliament passed the sale of goods act. in 1979, that act was re-enacted with minor amendments and it remains very much the same today. every day in britain, millions of people and thousands of businesses buy and sell under contracts governed by the sale of goods act. the act has stood the test of time because it is a model of brevity, clarity and simplicity. now along comes the commission, in its self-absorbed wisdom, proffering a common european sales law. twice the length of the uk sale of goods act, it is a minor masterpiece of legislative flatulence which will benefit only lawyers. it is voluntary for the uk at the moment, but on past form our british consumers will eventually be deprived of the tried and tested benefits of english law and our government will be powerless. mark my words: uk electors have had enough of this. by the way, commissioner reding, please come back to the uk soon and often. every out-of-touch, arrogant utterance from you gains the uk independence party an extra mep. one thing which we can be sure of – and which i predict now – is that we shall have a very different parliament in may, which would vote down this arrogant, out-of-touch, useless piece of legislation, which actually comes out of a commission which acts against the interests of the people and not with them. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well i do not know what parallel universe you inhabit, madam mairead mcguiness, but what i can assure you is that the arrogance comes entirely from the commission, from the ppe, from the s&d, from the alde, from the greens, from the ecr and never, not at all, from us. i suggest that if you are aiming to direct some snide or inappropriate remark at me, as a fellow elected member, may i perhaps draw your attention to my website where for once you might learn something.
mr president, we are 85 days away from the european elections and we are about to vote in a proposal which will undermine scottish consumers’ rights. there is a reason why which, the consumer rights organisation in the uk, is warning us about this proposal and we have had it confirmed in the chamber this morning that their concerns are justified. i believe this proposal would trigger legal uncertainty by creating an additional legal regime next to the legal regimes of the member states, and raises questions of subsidiarity. i believe that the optional instrument is far from optional when the power to use it rests not with the consumer, but with the trader or the business involved. this proposal undermines the level of consumer protection in scotland and the rest of the uk, and therefore i will be voting against. on a separate matter, this debate started at 8.30[nbsp ]am but i believe the live web stream did not start until 9.00. therefore, citizens that were interested in watching this debate – i have had some people on twitter saying this – did not get that opportunity. i think that in future, if we are starting at 8.30, we have to make sure that the live web stream is actually on.
mr president, i am very pleased that both the council and the commission are here today to talk about the youth guarantee because we need to keep shining a very bright light on this issue of youth unemployment if we are going to push member states into taking positive action. it does not necessarily mean calling for more money at eu level, but sharing successful initiatives and ensuring that existing eu opportunities, such as the european social fund, are used to the maximum. in the united kingdom we have the youth contract: not exactly the youth guarantee but a good scheme in its own right. this is a gbp[nbsp ]1 billion scheme which will provide nearly half a million new opportunities for young people, including job subsidy schemes for 18 to 24-year-olds, increasing work experience placements to 100[nbsp ]000, extra incentive payments for employers who take on apprentices and better support for job centre advisors. we need a joined-up approach at national level, including businesses to take responsibility. but we must not forget that structural reforms in the labour market are necessary both for economic stability and sustainable job creation.
mr president, i called for a youth guarantee scheme of eur 21 billion, in line with the international labour organisation, by co-authoring an amendment which this parliament, to its shame, rejected. the ambitious goal of offering young people who are out of work a place in education, training or employment requires significant capacity to ensure that offers are suited to each individual’s needs. it must also include all young people, irrespective of whether they are linked to the public employment services or not. the present funds allocated are just a fraction of the ilo’s recommendation and will not provide the required capacity. for ireland, a poorly-funded youth employment scheme will fail to tackle the problem of youth unemployment and immigration. it will mean that energy, skills and new ideas will continue to leak out of towns and villages the length and breadth of ireland as our children – who are known as the skype generation, scattered around the world – leave. we need to do more. we need to give our young people reasons to stay and not reasons to leave.
mr president, i want to use my minute to vent my frustration at the uk government’s total lack of movement on the youth guarantee and youth employment initiative. i have campaigned for years now for a youth guarantee fund at eu level. now we have one, you would have thought that i would be overjoyed; but no. as yet, the uk government has still to come forward with an implementation plan showing how it will access the eur[nbsp ]8 billion available for a youth guarantee or youth employment initiative. we are told this implementation plan will come, but still we wait. while other member states have plans in place, the uk dithers. thousands of young people across the uk from liverpool to wolverhampton to london are crying out for assistance to help them find employment, yet while their voices can be clearly heard all we get from the uk government is silence. its lack of action speaks volumes to the young unemployed of britain today.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, freedom of movement is a very important principle of the eu, and i am very proud to live in a part of europe where many people want to come and live. but we also need to recognise that migration can put significant pressures on public services and listen to the local communities’ concerns. immigration brings great benefits to our economy, and we all benefit from this sharing of knowledge. we need to listen carefully to both sides of the argument. switzerland is not in the eu. its people are perfectly entitled to choose their own way of controlling their borders, but this is a complicated and sensitive subject and we need to be calm and considered in our response. switzerland is not in the eu but works with us on many issues. in science and research funding, it contributes money and its researchers, universities and businesses take part in collaborative research, both based in the eu and trying to solve problems for citizens of europe all over the world. we all benefit from the knowledge and innovation that, working together, they contribute. any attempt to sanction switzerland, by limiting its participation in science and research, could be very detrimental to us all. europe is changing. some countries want closer integration; others do not. if we want to keep everyone in the single market, we will need to allow some countries to stay out of other parts. the reaction to this vote in switzerland will be watched very carefully. it would be very foolish to retaliate too harshly.
mr president, one of the claimed benefits of eu membership is free movement of peoples. the eu is quick to condemn switzerland’s recent democratic referendum result on the same subject... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i was prevented from speaking earlier. one of the claimed benefits of eu membership is free movement of peoples, and the eu is quick to condemn switzerland’s democratic referendum results. so why were seven qualified british ski instructors, legally working in france, treated like criminals, thrown into freezing cells and now facing three months in jail when they have every right to work there? should this parliament not demand their immediate release, and – i must be careful how i say this – is this ‘piste war’ not totally in breach of eu rules? (the president cut off the speaker)
chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr[nbsp ]president, considering that my committee bent over backwards to work with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs when they came to us incredibly late on this proposal – we had to delay our vote for two weeks to accommodate their work – and that we worked closely with their rapporteur, i would remind the chair of that committee that, under rule[nbsp ]50 of the rules of procedure, in relation to reports on which committees do not have an equal division of competences, we are indisputably the lead committee, and that we have taken into account almost all the points he made to us. i invite you, mr[nbsp ]president, to support my committee’s position and the position of my incredibly hardworking rapporteur, ms[nbsp ]sehnalová, who, in 2012, brought to this house a report on which you voted, colleagues, supporting this proposal. did the civil liberties committee ask for an opinion on that report? no. and we had a public hearing with mr[nbsp ]peter hustinx, the european data protection controller, so the idea that we have not taken into account the views of the civil liberties committee or considerations of data protection is an insult to the working methods of my committee. i invite you to support my committee and to support our amendments.
mr president, i had originally signalled my intention to move on behalf of my group that this report be referred back to committee. this was because president schulz had originally ruled that no split or separate votes would be allowed on this first reading agreement, or indeed on any subsequent first reading agreements coming up in the next few weeks. however, i am pleased to say that he changed his mind an hour ago, and i hope that you all now have the updated voting list which does allow the opportunity for split and separate votes. my concern with this directive is that whilst there are many good and useful measures in it to stop young people from smoking, there is one huge mistake, and that is article 18a, which is the rule on e-cigarettes. this will prevent many europeans from using e-cigarettes. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, could i request a roll-call vote on 190 cp?
mr president, as mr callanan said, the decision on this was made in the last hour. i would ask you to rethink ms dodds’s request for part 2 of 190 cp, article 13. we could not have known that it was going to be taken on because it was made in the last hour.
mr president, i would like to use this opportunity to again highlight the obstacles being placed on free trade by the national dairy council’s ‘farmed in the republic of ireland’ labelling campaign in the republic of ireland. this campaign continues to discriminate against northern ireland dairy produce. i have previously brought this issue up before parliament and the commission because i feel strongly that country-of-origin labelling should not be used to create a protectionist policy. consumers should have the freedom of choice as to what they buy. the national dairy campaign is also extremely shortsighted. by excluding one part of the united kingdom, the republic of ireland is jeopardising its largest market: great britain. in this context, i feel this debate should focus on better enforcement of current policy in order to create a level playing field. this is what the single market should be about.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, although it is important to develop and use new plant breeding techniques, i believe all local and regional crop varieties should be preserved in order to maintain and increase genetic and cultural diversity.
in writing. - the single market is the greatest tool for economic growth the eu has; unlocking the full potential of the single market and improving its effectiveness are goals which i can fully support. given that this european semester report takes note of the important role of the single market in enhancing growth and proposes to include the single market in the european semester process, i was able to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - there has been a grave loss of faith in the growth prospects of the european economy in recent years and, though the pace of recovery is indeed picking up, there is still a long journey ahead. the single market is the most successful achievement of the european union and has paid real dividends for all member states. however, there is still scope to further extend single market governance. one area with still much untapped potential for growth is that of the digital market – a continually-growing key sector in the european economy. improving governance of the digital market will enable us to further cut unnecessary red tape and remove superfluous barriers; and by assisting the digital market to catch up with the free movement of goods, new models of competitiveness will also be encouraged to flourish. i therefore welcome this report and its proposals to inject new vigour into the single market’s existing framework. by sustaining the progress we have already made whilst continuing to encourage growth through better governance, this new framework can prove an important instrument in assisting the eu along its path to economic recovery.
in writing. - ukip voted against this report as it concerns regional policy and the concomitant transfer of funds; the report does acknowledge the role of the euro crisis but quite fails to bring out the vitally important issue of productivity.
in writing. - as we look toward a new eu cohesion policy for 2014-2020, i believe it is positive that this report restates the importance of esf and erdf funding for creating employment, reducing social exclusion and ending educational underachievement in our society. in my own constituency, northern ireland, in areas such as the shankill in north belfast, unemployment among young people is soaring. this report rightly highlights the fact that funding should better engage poorly-trained young people in order to improve access to employment or further education. this is vital to giving these young people a true stake in society. i am hopeful that the new peace iv programme, which i and my party have long lobbied for, will promote projects that tackle these deficiencies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the economic crisis has resulted in a dramatic increase in poverty and social exclusion, and it is clear that employment and social inclusion must be prioritised in the eu’s activities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises that cohesion policy programmes should be focused on the individual needs of each territory, but should also be in line with national and european objectives. i support the thinking in the report that funding should be used to boost jobs and growth.
in writing. - as an mep representing wales, which benefits greatly from cohesion policy funding, i was able to support this report, which assesses the implementation of cohesion programmes for 2007-2013 and looks at how we can best contribute to eu 2020 objectives through the use of erdf and esf in 2014-2020. i have spoken many times in this chamber about the importance of smart, targeted deployment of funds to generate the maximum benefit for our regions and i strongly believe that this is something that we must do better in my own constituency in this new 2014-2020 period.
in writing. - ukip is against this use of taxpayers’ money.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it relates to problems in the eu’s outermost regions and it recommends that the eu uses these regions to the best of their assets to promote jobs and growth in those regions.
in writing. - i opposed this report because i believe that the treaty provision concerned grants an unfair advantage to three member states, even though all member states have their own peripheral regions and yet cannot benefit from such exemptions.
in writing. - outermost regions often face their own, unique problems and the eu should make better use of the assets and opportunities in these regions to provide a basis for the regions to play a central role in the eu’s future. i supported this own-initiative report because i believe that creating synergies between eu structural funding and other eu programmes in the outermost regions will bring numerous benefits and ensure that outermost regions are fully involved in eu policy and funding. i firmly believe that the only way to increase the part played by outermost regions in eu policy and funding is to strive to remove the obstacles that they currently face.
in writing. - this report is somewhat critical of the eu’s finance and budgeting procedures and does suggest a need for improvement especially with regard to the input (i.e. expenditure) focus of regional and agricultural policy to the neglect of performance. for us, of course, it goes nowhere near far enough in its criticism. for this reason, our position is against.
in writing. - i find it somewhat ironic that this parliament is today debating how the european union`s finances should be evaluated in times ahead. this comes after the european court of auditors previously refused to give a clean bill of health to the eu’s accounts for the 19th successive year. vast amounts of taxpayer money continue to disappear into a black hole, seemingly with little care or scrutiny, and it is right to say that this appalling situation cannot continue. families and businesses in my constituency, northern ireland, deserve better. the reality is that if this situation occurred in a private business, the board and directors would be accused of serious financial impropriety. but instead of tackling the problem, we now see the committee failing to accept that value for money should have a role in evaluation. this is disgraceful. as economic uncertainty continues to affect households and businesses right across northern ireland, running scandals such as this illustrate why there is a need for fundamental change in the relationship between the united kingdom and the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which concerns the evaluation report of the union’s finances, based on the results achieved; a new instrument in the toolbox of budgetary discharge, introduced by the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - the effectiveness of eu spending is vitally important and especially so at a time when member states and regions are facing tough economic decisions. in order to ensure that money is being spent effectively and efficiently, programme evaluation is key. this own-initiative report, which i support, calls on the commission to refer to the achievements of member states. it also highlights that the court of auditors should monitor the progress made by the commission and make recommendations when needed. article 318, which this report refers to, will be a useful tool to compare the effectiveness of eu spending in terms of achievements and performance, which i hope will have more of an emphasis on project outcomes that have a positive effect directly on citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support any move to make eu citizens safer. these proposals will make it mandatory for every car to have an automatic device fitted, which will automatically call the emergency services in the case of an accident. as a 112 mep champion, i think it is very important that we have a common eu strategy to make all of us safer, both when we are at home and in other eu countries.
in writing. - as the uk does not participate in this agreement, i opted to abstain in this vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and i support measures to increase prosperity in central america and help develop improved political and commercial relations with the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the continuation of the existing guidelines for employment policies. it is imperative that, in the current economic climate, the member states do all they can to tackle unemployment and social exclusion.
in writing. - i could not support this proposal on the employment guidelines as employment policy is an area of member state competence and one that i therefore do not believe the european commission should address.
in writing. - the effectiveness of eu spending is vitally important and especially so at a time when member states and regions are facing tough economic decisions. in order to ensure that money is being spent effectively and efficiently, programme evaluation is key. this own-initiative report, which i support, calls on the commission to refer to the achievements of member states. it also highlights that the court of auditors should monitor the progress made by the commission and make recommendations when needed. article 318, which this report refers to, will be a useful tool to compare the effectiveness of eu spending in terms of achievements and performance, which i hope will have more of an emphasis on project outcomes that have a positive effect directly on citizens.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. more harmonisation of tax matters (and own resources) across the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. a common system for vat returns will reduce administrative burdens for european businesses and should aid in the elimination of tax fraud.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which supports the commission’s proposal to simplify the reporting for vat returns. i welcome the steps this proposal takes to remove some of the administrative burdens and costs placed on small businesses and to make it easier for them to conduct cross-border business.
in writing. - ukip abstained on this report as the measure recognises the need for diversity rather than the eu’s usual imposition of uniformity across 500 million people and 28 states.
in writing. - i opposed this report because i believe that the treaty provision concerned grants an unfair advantage to three member states, even though all member states have their own peripheral regions and yet cannot benefit from such exemptions.
in writing. - i opposed this report because i believe that the treaty provision concerned grants an unfair advantage to three member states, even though all member states have their own peripheral regions and yet cannot benefit from such exemptions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because under this agreement all parties involved would be obliged to readmit their own nationals along with other procedural and technical criteria for readmission.
in writing. - as the uk, at present does not take part in this agreement i opted to abstain in this vote.
in writing. - i am concerned that this proposal to extend the derogation on languages until the end of the next parliament may discriminate against an official language of the eu and therefore i opted not to support this proposal today.
in writing. - i voted for the casini report amending rules 166 (final vote) and 195(3) (voting in committee) of parliament’s rules of procedure. this report changed the parliament’s rules on final votes in plenary and in committee roll-calls. this is a very welcome development in making the parliament more transparent to the citizens and taxpayers. from now on these votes will be published for all to see. i regret that any mep would vote against such a proposal but some did.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it will be an important step in making the eu more transparent and accountable to its citizens. this rule change will mean all final votes in both plenary and committee voting sessions will be automatically roll-call votes. currently, they have to be requested by one quarter of meps present. this will make it easier for my constituents to follow how i, and my fellow meps, vote in every report.
in writing. - i support these two measures to increase the transparency of parliamentary proceedings and i voted in favour of this report today.
in writing. - ukip's position is against. the uk can set its own policy.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it weakens financial transparency requirements in the rail sector which are deemed vital for a level playing field and for ensuring public money is not misused.
in writing. - whilst i am supportive of the intention to open up domestic railway services across the eu to greater competition, i am concerned that the parliament’s position may have a harmful impact on the uk’s existing arrangements for domestic rail travel and i therefore voted against this report today.
in writing. - ukip's position is against: leave it to the railway companies if there is a demand for it, if not, leave it alone
in writing. - again, i have concerns about the direction in which parliament’s report on this issue is headed and i therefore opted to vote against this report on the opening of the market for domestic rail services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because this will achieve the better integration of the european rail network and remove many of the unnecessary, costly barriers that undermine the competitiveness of the current rail sector. the changes brought about by this should help uk businesses trying to expand into mainland europe by simplifying their access to the eu market.
in writing. - i could not support this report because i am concerned by the general trend in this technical pillar towards transferring a number of competences from the national safety authorities to the european railway agency.
in writing. - i could not support this report because i am concerned by the general trend in this technical pillar towards transferring a number of competences from the national safety authorities to the european railway agency.
in writing. - i fully support this report, which looks at removing some of the current unnecessary administrative burden for rail operators and manufacturers. having one safety certificate that is valid for the whole european network will reduce the unnecessary and costly barriers that currently undermine the competitiveness of the rail sector by ensuring that train manufacturers need only go through one european body, rather than individual member states, for authorisation. i also support the involvement of national safety authorities throughout this process to ensure that, while streamlining safety standards across the eu, the current safety levels in member states are not jeopardised. the changes in this report should be beneficial to uk businesses by simplifying their access to the eu market to help them expand into mainland europe.
in writing. - i could not support this report because i am concerned by the general trend in this technical pillar towards transferring a number of competences from the national safety authorities to the european railway agency.
in writing. - i support the repeal of this regulation and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
mr president, if there is one policy area which really needs to extend beyond national boundaries it happens to be aviation, and i have heathrow airport in my constituency. the very nature of this industry requires countries to cooperate supranationally for the safety of many millions of people who take to the skies every year. it plainly makes no sense for the rules to be asymmetric or differently implemented across the member states. the mandatory occurrence reporting systems may be just that. for many states such as mine, the united kingdom, they have been operating successfully for many years. there is very little in modern everyday life which has the potential to instil as much fear as the fear of crashing in an aeroplane and things going wrong, so if enhanced and streamlined reporting mechanisms can add further safeguards against that ever happening, permitting efficient processing and analysis of all the relevant data across the union to become a reality, and facilitating greater transparency in this most vital of industries, then it will actually have performed a good job for all our members of the public in the eu.
in writing. - it is essential that the eu's civil aviation sector operates wholly within a culture where the potential for accidents is reduced to a minimum; i believe that this proposed legislation will contribute to that culture and i accordingly voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i believe in the strengthening and enhancement of the eu’s proactive accident prevention system through analysis and rapid exchange of information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these new rules on the reporting of all aviation related incidents; the agreement of this regulation will improve aviation safety and export best practice from the uk’s existing mandatory reporting requirements across the eu.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of the ecall system. while i recognise the potential benefits of the system in terms of emergency services responding to car accidents, i believe the excessive cost of installing this system in all cars outweighs this. in the uk we have one of the best road safety records in europe and on balance i don’t believe this system is worth the costs to consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i welcome the development of e-call in all new types of vehicle, which will ensure a reliable and affordable service that can work seamlessly across europe in all automobiles, irrespective of make, country or actual location of the vehicle. this will decrease the severity of accidents and prevent congestion and further accidents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the ecall in-vehicle system. the development of ecall in all new types of vehicle will ensure a reliable and affordable service that can work throughout the eu irrespective of make, country or location of the vehicle. i support the report because i believe that this approach could decrease the severity of accidents on our roads and prevent congestion and further accidents. ecall sends an emergency message following an accident and cuts emergency services’ response times; this quicker response will save about 2[nbsp ]500 lives in the eu every year.
in writing. - ukip's position is against. this is a recast of a 2002 directive to match the on-going revision of mifid ii (in particular the sale of life assurance with investment elements) the intention is to raise the minimum standards of imd1 which has regulated the sale of investment products since 2005.
in writing. - it is important that the insurance industry operates across the eu in a manner which takes account of consumers’ rights. this has not always been the case: in my own country thousands of people were mis-sold payment protection plans. it is to be hoped that the negotiations which will now begin between the parliament and the council will result in legislation which strengthens consumer rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i think transparency and the disclosure of greater information is vital for consumers when buying insurance products. furthermore my initial concerns regarding redress and non-binding decisions were removed from the text in the final vote.
in writing. - i supported this revision of the insurance mediation directive, which looks at the commission’s proposal to upgrade consumer protection in the insurance sector. by creating common standards across insurance sales and ensuring proper advice to consumers, this report can bring some positive new elements for consumers. i particularly support the report’s proposal banning the bundling of certain insurance products together; consumers were previously sometimes not given the option to buy products separately but now they will have the option to do so.
mr president, i too am happy to endorse the report on the eu action in the field of health programmes which will continue to provide key funding for valuable scientific research whilst also strengthening the framework already in place within our healthcare systems, which naturally are generally reserved for the member states, but of course there is room for coordination at eu level. i particularly support the programme’s emphasis on the member states being helped as they continue to adapt to the rapidly changing ageing demographics. europe’s ageing population has significantly changed the nature of the population pyramid and this demographic revolution will continue to present member states with significant challenges in terms of public spending and allocation of resources. in my constituency of london we are quite lucky with 34[nbsp ]% of the population being under the age of 24, but that is the exception for a young population; it will not last and the ageing demographic challenge will pose considerable challenges in future for all member states. it is therefore imperative that we continue to develop healthcare infrastructures to reflect these demographic changes in our society, and as a doctor i was particularly pleased to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report refers to the austerity measures being carried out across the eu and the negative impact this can have on access to health care. i represent a country where the government is committed to keeping scotland’s health services in public hands. unfortunately the scottish government has no control over the wider welfare system. this is under attack from a right-wing uk government and by a constitutional system supported by their backers in the labour party.
in writing. - the eu's health for growth programme is both necessary and timely in order to help member states cope with economic and demographic challenges facing healthcare systems. while healthcare remains and should remain a member state competence, i believe the commission's proposals and the rapporteur's report has set a more effective framework of less activities but more concrete achievements. recent studies have shown that while life expectancy for men and women has increased, the average number of healthy life years was estimated to be only 61.8 for men and 62.2 for women. chronic diseases clearly present an acute problem to healthcare systems across the eu, with some €700 billion spent annually to tackle the problem. certainly my own constituency is no different in this regard, with the health system in northern ireland struggling under an ever increasing chronic disease budget. with a budget of €449.4 million, i am supportive of the eu's ambitious but achievable target of increasing the number of healthy life years by two by 2020. not only would this improve health and healthcare by reducing the burden on our healthcare systems, but a more streamlined and focussed eu health programme can also deliver innovation, growth and jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as this reduces health inequalities amongst eu citizens by complementing, supporting and adding value to health policies of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement on the framework for eu health expenditure for the period 2014–2020. i hope to see these funds utilised effectually throughout this period to stimulate innovation in healthcare and improve the health of eu citizens.
in writing. - i support this report on the third multiannual health programme. the eu health programme 2014-2020 is intended to complement, support and add value to member states’ policies to improve the health of eu citizens and reduce health inequalities. many ground-breaking projects, such as cervical cancer screening, hiv prevention, and research into neurodegenerative disease have been funded by past eu health programmes and the uk has been a big recipient of this funding. i support the improvements this report makes to the commission’s initial proposals, e.g. addressing both physical and mental health and health inequalities amongst other things.
in writing. - i followed this proposal closely and was pleased to vote in favour of the final report today, which sets out the eu’s health programme for 2014-2020. the programme is intended to complement, support and add value to the policies of the member states in improving the health of eu citizens, reducing health inequalities and dealing with the economic and demographic challenges facing healthcare systems. past programmes have helped to fund important projects, including cervical cancer screening, hiv prevention and research into neurodegenerative disease. i am also pleased that a number of new areas have been taken into account in this programme, including mental health, health inequalities, environmental and lifestyle factors and gender and age-related illnesses. with a budget of eur[nbsp ]449.4 million, the health programme can be instrumental in helping to improve the health of eu citizens.
in writing. - telecommunications play an increasingly important role in the european economy and the lives of consumers. i welcome these guidelines and voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i want stronger and more extensive digital service infrastructures within the eu which this report will achieve through these regulations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which outlines the guidelines for the trans-european telecoms networks. i, along with my conservative colleagues, firmly support the development of broadband infrastructure and e-services and i am pleased to see these priorities reflected in the deal reached.
in writing. - i support this regulation, which aims at defining the guidelines for the deployment of digital service infrastructure and broadband networks in the context of the connecting europe facility regulation. the cef aims to promote investment in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure through projects of european interest. i support the report's main objectives, including allocating money to financial instruments for broadband.
mr[nbsp ]president, today’s positive vote on the report on the accessibility of public sector bodies’ websites is another step towards improving democratic accountability in terms of wider public participation throughout the european union. the eu has made significant progress on legislation with regard to improving transparency. thus it is only natural that this should also now be extended to cover the digital sector. the digital market constitutes one of the key pillars in the european union’s economy, particularly in my country, the uk. therefore it is important that the public also gain certain rights within the sector. the advent of high-speed broadband and these new initiatives to improve web accessibility are a good thing. it is hoped, particularly as broadband spreads across the 500-million-strong bloc of the 28 member states, that the eu and all its citizens will be able to make the most of this new digital age that has contributed to so many positive changes in all areas of public life, including e-government. i was happy to endorse the report.
in writing. - the internet has become an essential tool in many sectors including in the access to information from the public sector. it is vital that public sector websites are as accessible to all as possible and i welcome these sensible proposals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because there are currently less than 10% of public sector bodies’ websites that are accessible. this is unacceptable especially for those with disabilities and especially in an eu with an ageing population. it is vital to ensure that eu citizens are able to have access to websites and their content regardless of their age or their disability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which makes improvements to the commission’s proposal on the accessibility of public sector bodies’ websites, ensuring that they reflect technological developments and that the definitions remain technologically neutral.
in writing. - i support this report on the ‘accessibility of public sector bodies’ websites’. this report brings into light the vital importance for public sector bodies to fulfil their public duties such as making all their websites accessible to everyone, including the elderly and disabled. i support the progress this report makes to the commission’s primary proposal, e.g. easy access to not only public sector websites, but also websites operated by other entities which provide basic services to the public and also the accessibility to all downloadable content of such websites.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the supply of long-term financing and diversifying the system of financial intermediation within europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which considers a number of means of improving investment in the eu economy in the wake of the financial crisis.
in writing. - whilst i accept that the rapporteur has written her report with the best of intentions, i voted for the alternative resolution. the alternative text clearly sets out those areas where eu countries must cooperate to break the illegal sex trade. it also highlights the total unacceptability of forced prostitution and child prostitution. nevertheless, enforcement of laws relating to the sex trade is a member state competence and it is not appropriate for this house to seek to issue decrees in this matter.
in writing. - we lost on amendment 1 which i supported and although i do not support the swedish model there was a lot of good in the report. i felt i could neither totally reject nor fully support this report; therefore i abstained in this vote. also it is misleading to give the impression this has any impact as it was an own-initiative on a legislative non-binding report. unless the member states want a treaty change this issue will remain a member state competency.
in writing. - the conservative delegation acknowledges that the politics of prostitution are extremely sensitive and we are mindful of the harrowing statistics which link human trafficking to sexual exploitation and prostitution. the conservative delegation has co-authored an alternative motion which makes four key points: 1) the issue of criminalising is a member state competency; 2) human trafficking is a root cause of prostitution and must be dealt with; 3) child prostitution must be eradicated and is unacceptable; 4) where a woman wishes to stop work as a prostitute, measures must be in place to help her. the conservative delegation abstained on the honeyball report because we do not think it is the role of the eu to be regulating prostitution. where trafficking is taking place to fuel prostitution, then that must be addressed. however, whatever the view on prostitution, it is not the place of the eu to tell women what they can and cannot do with their bodies. the evidence on the success of the ʻswedish modelʼ is still disputed – there is data to show that the swedish system has driven prostitution underground, endangering the safety of prostitutes; on the other hand, there is evidence to suggest a fall in demand.
in writing. - this report addresses the issue of sustainable mining and development. while this report has many positive elements, unfortunately i feel that parts of it are too prescriptive and as a result i could not support it at today’s vote.
madam president, few of us could have imagined even a couple of weeks ago that dozens of innocent protestors could have been massacred by police in a modern democratic european capital. i salute their courage and i send my condolences to the victims’ families. it is an unspeakable outrage and the corrupt, kleptocratic and utterly disgraced yanukovych, who is now a fugitive, will have to answer for his serious crimes. under yanukovych, the ukrainian political system was thoroughly discredited by a culture in which politics were for sale to oligarchs and the ukrainian economy was increasingly channelled into the service of one single family: his. amidst the wreckage of the regime we now must work closely with our partners in ukraine to help bury this culture once and for all; in particular the priority would be locating and repatriating the vast quantities of looted money and ensuring that all those responsible for the recent atrocities are brought to justice. we must also deploy all the instruments of the eu and the imf to help stabilise the ukrainian economy and prevent default. then, once a stable government is democratically elected on 25 may, we can turn to the longer-term political goals of signing the association agreement and the dcfta, and one day to eventual eu membership, which i have supported for over a decade, by the way. ukraine is anchored in our european history and culture shared from west to east, but its destiny must be decided by all of the ukrainian people, not just the eu or the us or the russians. really, we must remind russia of its obligations to respect ukraine’s sovereignty under the 1994 npt budapest accords, which includes crimea being part of ukraine. lastly, i welcome the release of yulia tymoshenko, whom i invited to this house in 2003, and i also welcome the abolition of the berkut, whose name is now toxic; they were responsible as snipers for the killing of innocent protestors.
blue-card question. – mrs jäätteenmäki, i believe, if i am correct, that you were once a minister – if not prime minister – of finland. finland has had problems historically with russia. one solution being suggested is a ‘finlandisation’ of ukraine in terms of security and nato membership, i.e. non-nato membership. in your experience as a finn and as a politician from finland, do you think that would give enough assurances to russia if ukraine were to head in a european union direction but say no to nato and no to any security threats to russia, as it perceives them? from the finnish point of view, finlandisation might be the solution to stabilise ukraine. what do you think?
mr[nbsp ]president, we have heard warnings that ukraine must not slide into civil war, but the sight of innocent protestors walking into live gunfire already resembles war more than anything else. today this parliament must join the commissioner and baroness ashton by insisting on an independent investigation so that the perpetrators of the violence are brought to justice. in addition to urgent efforts towards international economic assistance, the council, having already agreed an asset freeze, must now act quickly to help ukraine recover the billions which, as colleagues from this house were told, have disappeared in the past three weeks alone. if the new administration, recognised as legitimate by the eu, agrees to sign the association agreement that we say is on the table, i cannot see what justification there could now be for the eu to hesitate. i back the intention to involve russia and to avoid the people of ukraine becoming further victims of geopolitics, but i also back efforts to give direct assistance to the maidan protestors, who come from outside politics, in engaging in the transition of their own country. they have suffered enough.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, iraq is a country which has seen more than its fair share of tragedy in recent years: the fall of the brutal saddam hussein’s ba’athist regime has been followed by more or less constant bloodshed, with an unstable government and deep sectarian divisions threatening a still more catastrophic potential civil war. only yesterday a car bomb in baghdad killed 15 people and, according to un figures, 733 people were killed in january this year alone. in addition, the human rights situation for the turkmen and christian minorities, and for women and the lgbt communities, remains dire. it represents an enduring tragedy, in particular that some ancient christian assyrian communities are threatened with virtual extinction or expulsion from the country. prime minister nouri al-maliki has, regrettably, revealed himself to be a man prepared to wage war on his own people and is far too close to the iranian regime. his attacks on the sunni populations in the al-anbar province have caused vast causalities among civilian populations in an indiscriminate fashion, under the omnipresent pretext of combating jihadi terrorism. there is no doubt – anna gomes is right – that sunni terrorism does exist fuelled by the syrian conflict, and that al-qaeda and isil are a threat. but al-maliki’s assaults smack to me of being driven by sheer sectarian conflict. furthermore i deplore his government’s failure to protect the people’s mujahideen. we must therefore do all that we can to encourage increased dialogue in iraq, mobilise support for the many internally displaced persons and end the violence, particularly in fallujah and in nearby al-anbar towns. iraq can only survive if the different populations attempt a meaningful, much-needed reconciliation. i want to also take this opportunity to praise the iraqi kurdistan government, which in the face of near chaos south of the border and in the regions of baghdad has managed to build a prosperous, dynamic and secular democratic policy. the kurds have every right to use their oil money to build a stable future for themselves either within a democratic, federal or confederal iraq, or possibly even in my mind, speaking personally... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, for the past 18 months the population of anbar province, and indeed the six sunni provinces in iraq, have been demonstrating every week in their hundreds and thousands against the brutality, the oppression, the assassinations, the abuse of power and the corruption of nouri al-maliki and his very sectarian government. he said that he would take them on. he has found the perfect excuse now for a bloodbath, and he is attacking the civilian population in fallujah and ramadi, telling the world that he is engaged in a war against terrorists. he has banned all reporting and closed off these cities to make sure there is no humanitarian access, and we are falling for it. please, minister, do not fall for this. do not provide arms and aid to maliki like the americans are doing. he uses these arms to kill his own people. this is a genocidal war against the sunni population. it is certainly not a war against terrorism.
blue-card question. – ms essayah, are you aware that right now the iraqi military are attacking a community in salāh ad dīn‎? so far today they have killed 200 men, women and children. an 81-year-old man was shot at point-blank range – the iraqi military said he was a terrorist. eighty-one years old! were you aware of this?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, there are several worrying aspects of the use of armed drones to kill people – and i stress this resolution is about the use of armed drones. firstly, there is the lack of clarity that they are being used in compliance with international law. as ms gomes has said, they are banned for extrajudicial killings outside a conflict zone. that is generally illegal under international human rights law and, even in a state of conflict, civilians must not be targeted according to the laws of war. now, i welcome president obama’s guidelines of a year ago curtailing occasions when drones can be used outside war zones, but there is still insufficient clarity, and that is part of the whole problem of a lack of transparency and accountability in democratic oversight in general. the cia does not confirm or deny its drone programme but, as un special rapporteur ben emmerson said in a hearing that i co-sponsored with ms gomes and others last year, it is a bad idea to allocate to a secret service a campaign of warfare which needs transparency. thirdly there is the ethical concern: the risk of a lower threshold for remote-controlled slaughter than the threshold of last resort which is required under the law. fourthly, this could lead to a free-for-all, giving al-qaeda a licence to kill, where it would not be just government – not even our western governments – but terrorist groups using them. so we need to draw the red lines now. we need eu and member state policy opposing illegal drone strikes and eu support for international rules. if we do not sort this out it could become another scandal of illegality and immorality to equal that of extraordinary rendition, torture and disappearance. european assistance or even silence at that time made us complicit. let us not repeat that mistake again.
madam president, three months ago in this european parliament chamber malala yousafzai was awarded the sakharov human rights prize. a victim of the taliban, no[nbsp ]one can suggest that she is sympathetic to terrorism. or stanley mcchrystal, the former commander of isaf forces in afghanistan. what unites them is that they say drone strikes outside recognised conflict zones are making terrorism more, not less, likely. let me be clear, drones can be used for legitimate defence; they can save lives. we support research into manned drones that can improve their accuracy. i will not engage in anti-americanism but will question whether the us practices of so-called double-tapping and signature strikes conform with the rules of law. my country has only used drones in conflict zones. nor does it seek to collaborate in european drone technology. but with 18 eu countries holding drones it is right for this parliament to underline that they must be used with full respect for international human rights law, to express scepticism about the development of fully automated weapons without the need for human intervention, and to call on nations inside and outside europe to hold a proper international debate about rules of engagement for their use.
mr president, the shadow for our group, ms flašíková[nbsp ]beňová, has already spoken for our group and supported the rapporteur, louis michel. as an s&d speaker, i would also like to support this report. this is now my third term in this parliament, and i think i understand that the fundamental rights report does a number of things. firstly, it does the impossible, which is to call the european union a community of values. this in itself is a very broad thing to have to do. when it does it, it does two things: it tries to keep up to date with what that means and, secondly, it then makes the rapporteur fall into controversies. i think we have to settle on a report which commands enough support across this parliament. we take the view that louis michel has produced a challenging report, but a good report. i would like to give some snapshots of where we think he has done that. he has challenged us; but do we want to produce a report which is merely cosmetic, which does not make us think and which does not really tell our citizens what fundamental rights are? let me give you three quick examples. we would never have talked about the balance between security, fighting terrorism and mass surveillance in the past, yet this is now something that many of us across the political spectrum can debate and sometimes agree on. we do not want our citizens to suffer mass surveillance of their data; we want them to be protected against terrorism. we need to find the balance. louis michel has touched on this issue in his report. he has touched on a completely different issue: the fight against anti-semitism. how many of us would disagree with this in the european union of today? it is of course a question of balance and of how we do it, but i would go further and say that anti-discrimination is something that we should extend to other areas. there will, of course, be disagreements on exactly how we do it, but i think again he is challenging us and that we are getting the balance right. is it right to leave migration, the most sensitive of topics, out of such a report? i do not think so. so these are just three snapshots that i have seen in this report which i believe should be there. overall he has done a good job, challenged us and come to the conclusion that we are a community of values. that is what we should be. i think we should support this report for that reason.
mr president, in the eyes of the eu all rights are equal but some are more equal than others. in any democracy the political rights – freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and electoral rights – should be pre-eminent. why? because they are the key to all the others: their recognition, their extent and their limitations. indeed many of the personal rights were established only with the exercise of these political rights. however, the eu regards the personal rights – chosen or determined behaviour, freedom from constraint, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of movement – to be paramount. if there should be a conflict between, say, freedom of expression and one of these personal rights, freedom of expression would be the loser. what they are really saying is that the political rights were simply vehicles for campaigning for their range of personal rights. once these have been elevated to the status of having self-evident virtue, the political rights have served their use and have become redundant.
rapporteur. - mr president, i believe that the adoption of my report on reform of the european arrest warrant will make an invaluable contribution to the european union’s area of freedom, security and justice. like mr melo, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs very warmly for their tremendous support and good cooperation, leading to a high degree of consensus on what legislative and other changes are necessary in regard to the operation of the eaw. all the political groups that participated in the shadows’ meetings are fully supporting the report, which i think is very powerful. we were also assisted by the european added value unit in this house and the excellent research they commissioned from professor anne weyembergh and anand doobay, whom i thank warmly for their assistance. the eaw is a critical tool in helping law enforcement authorities to tackle increasingly complex cross-border crime and keeping our citizens safe in an open and free europe. i supported it 12[nbsp ]years ago and i am glad i did so. every year thousands of suspected and convicted criminals are returned through judicial processes to be tried or to serve their sentence much more quickly than under traditional, cumbersome and lengthy extradition, in which government ministers are involved. justice delayed is justice denied to victims. however, i think the eaw could be called the euro of the justice and home affairs world. it is a very good idea, but it was launched without the support and safeguards necessary to make it strong and sustainable, not least as meps were ignored in the legislation. so varying criminal justice standards and practices have led to legitimate criticisms that the operation of the eaw needs to be improved. i stress ‘legitimate’ criticisms, as opposed to illegitimate, purely ideological, ones. while there have been some unilateral reforms at domestic level by some member states, ad hoc and uncoordinated action is not optimum for smooth cross-border police cooperation and to enable practitioners, courts, prosecutors, lawyers and police to be clear about procedures and rights. only reform at eu level would ensure the proper functioning of the eaw, guaranteeing effective and efficient justice, while ensuring respect for the fundamental rights of suspects and accused persons. so this report calls upon the commission to come forward, within one year, with legislative solutions that match our requests. if i am fortunate enough to be re-elected, i will be pressing the new prospective commissioner for justice to deliver on this. it is timely that we are debating the european investigation order (eio) as well in this joint debate. not only is it complementary to the european arrest warrant, but it is one that i think will help ease pressure on the eaw. it has had great precedent-setting value: firstly in the incorporation of a proportionality check so that the issuing authority has to consider whether the matter is really proportionate, based on all the relevant factors; and, secondly, in the human rights safeguard clause. my report proposes that both of these must be duplicated for the eaw. we also proposed, which is not in the eio, a consultation procedure so that the courts in the two countries can exchange information, hopefully to ensure that the eaw will not be misused as a fishing expedition to interview suspects and witnesses, as opposed to its intended purpose of criminal prosecution. i hope this would mean that trial readiness could be ascertained. individuals should not be spending long periods in pre-trial detention waiting for the prosecution to prepare its case. in providing for the transfer of evidence rather than persons, the eio should take some of the pressure off the eaw and confine the latter to its proper use. i will cover any other points in my summing up, but i am looking forward to a positive response from vice-president reding.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr[nbsp ]president, commissioner, the european arrest warrant, like the european investigation order, is of great value in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. i congratulate mr[nbsp ]melo and baroness ludford on their work. my country has benefitted from the use of the european arrest warrant (eaw) on many occasions, securing the extradition of drug smugglers, child-sex offenders, rapists and terrorists. i remember when i was a home office minister the extradition process used to be painfully difficult, plagued by political obstructions, and that is certainly not something i want to return to. we live in a world where terrorism and cross-border crime hang over us in a very serious way every day. it is clear, in a modern world, that an effective and timely method of international cooperation on extradition is essential. but just as essential are the checks and balances and the proportionality that go along with it, and the need for proportionality is at the core of our debate. the eaw was not designed to leave a person to languish in a jail without an early trial. it was not intended to make an individual subject to years of inconvenience and questioning as the result of outdated requests. and it was not put in place to prosecute the most trivial petty crimes. whilst such instances are exceptions, rather than the rule, they are exceptions that cannot be tolerated. it is the duty of the commission, this parliament and member state governments to restore confidence in the eaw through meaningful reform. like the rest of this house, i hope, i will fight for the highest standards of protection of the principle of a fair trial and for judicial proportionality checks. criminals must have nowhere to hide in the eu, but a necessary ingredient of any fight against crime is the public’s continued faith and trust in the system.
on behalf of the efd group. – we hear a lot about fundamental rights in this place. in england we had very good fundamental rights long before we joined the european union. these were established over centuries under habeas corpus, the bill of rights, the presumption of innocence, trial by jury, and guilt proved beyond reasonable doubt, to name just a few. these safeguards are now being destroyed by the creation of the eu’s own system of criminal justice. the european arrest warrant has been the cause of numerous cases of gross injustice, and these will continue to grow. now we have the european investigation order, which will empower foreign police forces to require british police forces to carry out investigations on their behalf, which we will then have the privilege of paying for. the coalition government has the option to opt out of the existing 135 eu criminal justice measures. instead it has announced its decision to opt out of 100 but opt in to 35. the 100 they are opting out of are of no consequence, being purely rhetorical, redundant or superseded by later legislation. the 35 measures they are opting in to are the worst and most dangerous, including the european arrest warrant. none of this is necessary, because there are already existing mutual assistance measures in place that allow police forces and judicial systems to cooperate with each other across national borders. this is not about cooperation. it is about harmonising our legal system in pursuit of the great ideological goal of a united states of europe. if david cameron is serious about repatriating power from the eu, he has the golden opportunity to do so now. there is still time to change the decision and opt out of all these measures, thereby protecting the real interests and freedoms of the british people. but i fear the tories will do what they always do and sell their fellow countrymen down the river to the european union.
madam president, some months ago i gave evidence to the british house of lords on the efficacy of the european arrest warrant and in researching that i learned, as a citizen of europe, that in fact the european arrest warrant had been extremely effective. it had in fact become a cornerstone of cross-border criminal justice but, of course, as everyone in this house knows, it needed urgent and clear reform. but the question of where that balance lay is the work that baroness ludford has done very effectively, and our group is very happy to support it because, in order for us cross over from the caricatures of how the european arrest warrant has been treated – as a poster child of how justice and home affairs cooperation is bad – then we must have clear evidence, cold and objective, as to what exactly is going wrong with the european arrest warrant. in my own city of london, in my country the united kingdom, in the case of maggie hughes, whom the commissioner knows, and her son robert, who suffered a brutal life-changing gang attack whilst on holiday in crete – his attackers are on trial thanks to the european arrest warrant. the perpetrators of the attempted bombings in london on 21[nbsp ]july 2005 are also being brought to justice because of the european arrest warrant. but of course there are many trivial cases. there are many people who have long pre-trial detention. there is the inability of the uk courts to consider the human rights system in the country of extradition. there is so much to be reformed. and that is the work that we have to do today. but let us get the balance right and let us reform with a sense of objectivity, a sense of balance, let us do our work here as meps to get the balance right. that does not mean that reform is not necessary. but when we did our work on the european arrest warrant we found out something very valuable and that is that when you look at the facts, what you find out is that we do something here in cross-border justice that is very effective for citizens of europe, but when we find out the detail, that is when we get clarity. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – claude, can i ask you to retract something that you said in that speech? you referred to the crete case and mr[nbsp ]hughes and you said that his attackers are on trial in greece. no, those accused of attacking him are on trial in greece and they are innocent until proved guilty. some of them have alibis showing that they were not even present at the place where the attack took place. nevertheless the lack of evidence against them has not stopped them being extradited. i know that you are a very fair man so would you like to retract the word ‘attacker’ and say ‘accused’ instead?
blue-card answer. – yes, i should have said – i don’t know what i did say, i should re-read my speech. i said ‘he was on holiday in crete and his attackers are on trial thanks to the eaw’. but i think you are right. i think this is not the best example but you are probably correct. but i think the wider point i am making – i never get a blue-card question, president, so if you do not mind i will just explain this to my colleague – is that there are many examples of where the european arrest warrant has rapidly brought people to trial. but the wider point that you are making is where some of these cases go badly wrong. i know you have such examples and i would never deny this. that is why we are trying to reform the european arrest warrant and i hope that you would respect that point too.
madam president, where i come from in northern ireland, we are in a very unique position of being the only part of the united kingdom which has a land border with another member state. the border is notoriously porous, and tackling criminality in this region is both difficult and dangerous. it requires some of the closest cross-border police cooperation in the european union, and i would like to pay tribute to the psni in northern ireland and the garda síochána in the republic for the way in which they have developed over the years. many times in the past that cooperation did not exist. the european arrest warrant is amongst the most important tools we have in fighting cross-border terrorism. without it there would be no legal basis for extradition between the united kingdom and the republic of ireland. this would leave northern ireland extremely vulnerable and precariously under-equipped. from a prosecutorial perspective, any lessening of mutual assistance and the resulting legal abyss would only benefit the terrorists and criminals. some 192 suspected criminals or terrorists were surrendered to the uk authorities between 2004 and 2013. provided we continue to press for a high level of proportionality, i can lend my support to the review of the eaw, as it is clearly delivering the desired results. congratulations to the rapporteur.
rapporteur. - madam president, i agreed with almost everybody in the debate and thank them warmly for taking part. if i may, i will single out the powerful remarks of mr nicholson about the situation on the island of ireland. i even agreed with the precision of mr batten over the word ‘alleged’. but it will not surprise mr batten that my views are diametrically opposed to his. i look forward to my party leader wiping the floor – metaphorically of course – with his leader in the nick v. nigel debate in the uk. i would just like to make two points that i did not cover in my opening remarks, firstly to highlight the importance that we place on addressing the question of excessively long pre-trial remand and poor prison conditions, which seriously undermine mutual trust. we are calling on the commission to explore all the means available to improve standards of detention, including legislative proposals on the conditions of pre-trial detention. the second point i wanted to highlight, as mentioned by one speaker, was the need for better training of legal practitioners and the need for support for defence lawyers acting in this field. but i absolutely agree with vice-president reding on the importance of the procedural rights directives in the roadmap launched four years ago. i was the rapporteur on the first one. i am pressing the uk government on the right to a lawyer directive. i want the uk to implement the european supervision order too. i am pleased they have opted into the european investigation order, as into two-thirds of post-lisbon measures. this is one of the reasons why my report calls for the timely and effective implementation of the whole body of eu criminal justice instruments, including the eio, the eso and procedural rights measures. i believe that commission and court infringement powers are necessary. but i was rather disappointed with what i felt was the lack of a really proactive response from vice-president reding, saying that any re-opening of the eaw would be premature. i do not agree with that conclusion. i think that saying that our report will feed into the permanent ongoing work on reviewing the eaw is insufficient. i look forward to pressing the commission and then working within the framework of cooperation between parliament and the commission to get a legislative proposal from the commission in the year ahead. you have heard the weight of really united opinion from parliament and that will not be ignored. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – sarah, you spoke about the excessive length of pre-trial detention and i would agree with you: that is to be avoided. but would you agree that one of the reasons for this is because, when people are extradited to britain, the police must be case-ready. they have to have a case fully prepared to go to trial before they can extradite somebody. whereas under some continental systems investigative judges may hold people while they investigate, which results in sometimes weeks, months or years of them being detained. would you agree with me that every police force in the european union should be case-ready before they request somebody’s judicial surrender?
rapporteur, blue -card answer. - enormous surprise – yes, i agree totally with you. the way that the eaw is worded is that in pre-trial cases it is for the purposes of criminal prosecution. it is not for the purposes of investigation, which is one of the reasons why the eio is going to be so important – filling that gap, taking the strain off the eaw – and that is why we refer in the report to the need for trial readiness. the consultation procedure that we are envisaging will be very important, allowing the courts in the two countries to consult on that point. there are different systems in the member states. we are not making criminal justice uniform in the eu. that is the whole point of mutual recognition. but it is important because pre-trial detention – excessively long periods – is, as i just said, a major issue in undermining mutual trust. you and i have a constituent, andrew symeou, who went through an appalling experience which should not have happened. personally i think that uk courts should have refused extradition in this case. but anyway, i agree that the eaw must be used for the purposes of prosecution, not for fishing expeditions or for the purposes of investigation.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to join other colleagues in thanking yannick jadot for his excellent work, not just on this particular report, but on the other similar agreements we have had with liberia, the central african republic and cameroon. tackling illegal logging around the world is a huge challenge but it is one we must address if we want to stop deforestation, protect biodiversity and tackle corruption. the eu, as the world’s biggest market, has a vital role to play in this. we have a responsibility as a community to ensure that we are trading ethically. it is not enough, as some people do, simply to shrug and say we do not know where the timber comes from and ask what we can do. consumers, our constituents, want to have the confidence to buy timber furniture in the eu and to know that their money is not fuelling massive deforestation or jeopardising the lives of indigenous people in the rainforests. so i welcome this agreement. as other colleagues have said, indonesia is the home of one of the world’s biggest rainforests and it faces some of the most significant challenges, particularly in relation to corruption. like other colleagues, i acknowledge the fact that the current indonesian government has taken serious steps to try to tackle the illegal logging. i am pleased that they have also taken steps to monitor imports of timber into indonesia in order to prevent ‘laundering’, with illegal timber leaving the country. like the rapporteur, however, i would encourage indonesia to go much further. the initiative they have started, in terms of a single online tracking map, is a very important one, but it needs to be further developed, and civil society organisations must be able to monitor the work of the mapping. i also hope that the licensing scheme which has been introduced will be accessible to small traders and local crafters who use timber. i understand from the indonesian government that there are moves to enable cooperatives to take advantage of the system. we have made good progress in signing this agreement. the indonesian government is on the right track but i would encourage both it and the commission to continue to work closely to make the agreement a success.
on behalf of the alde group. – for those of us who have been concerned about wholesale destruction of tropical rain forests, we must today congratulate the indonesian government on its efforts to move forward with protection of forest timber and the people, animals and plants that are dependent on it. this voluntary partnership agreement will serve as a clear indication of our commitment to helping and encouraging such actions. this is a commitment by the eu to help regulate the harvesting of tropical timber sustainably and with traceability. so far so good. but we still have huge concerns over indonesia’s regulation of its forest resources in what is called the svlk certification system. it is certainly on the right track and a welcome advance, but svlk needs more political commitment – to ensure that those who break the code receive strong sentences and that financial penalties are imposed on the perpetrators – before we will fully trust their implementation. we also need to be aware that only 10% of indonesia’s tropical timber actually arrives in europe. some 90% of it is exported to countries with much lower environmental standards that have built-in corruption and impunity for the illegal trade in tropical forest products – economies that have the philosophy of ‘profit today and who cares about the future?’. tropical deforestation and subsequent release of co2 are issues for all of us and it is western demand for palm oil and timber products that is also driving destruction. let us then be clear: agreeing to this vpa is a small step forward, a step towards traceability, a step towards protection and a step towards helping the indonesians demand the same standards from their other customers. but for heaven’s sake let us not fool ourselves that it is a case of ‘job done and problem solved’.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr[nbsp ] president, it is hardly surprising that i have never been a fan of the late hugo chávez in venezuela or his incompetent protégé nicolas maduro, who increasingly looks like a dictator. but this resolution on venezuela, an oil-rich country, has got nothing to do with the disastrous economic policies which they pursued. what is at stake is the fundamental right of people to protest against their own government without fear of violence or oppression, and to express their views in a free press and through the internet. i condemn, as does my group, the murders of the 13 protestors by government forces, and i extend my condolences to their families. clearly their deaths must be investigated, and all those who have been behind this must be brought to justice. maduro may well have been democratically elected, but attempts to censor the media and crack down on opponents risk causing immeasurable harm to his democratic credentials. the situation in venezuela is precarious. the country already has a very high murder rate. now the combination of uncontrolled pro-government militias, the recent arrest of the leading opposition figure leopoldo lópez and student demonstrators, and the roadblocks erected by opposition figures, could presage a descent into potentially disastrous violence or even civil war. president maduro, who is behaving increasingly like his mentor, fidel castro in cuba, must release the opposition figures. he must release the journalists and the students in custody, and ensure that the groups acting on his behalf are disarmed without delay. i urge the government to reach out to civil society and to guarantee, by lifting all the media restrictions, that more voices are heard in a more pluralistic society. if the eu can help in any way, we should be there in order to make sure there is true democracy in that country.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the recent record-breaking heavy rain and wind has caused a huge amount of damage right across the uk. for example, north and west wales has had terrible flooding, and this flooding i have seen for myself. in other parts of the uk as well, such as somerset and the thames valley, thousands of houses and businesses have been flooded, and roads and railways have been disrupted or even destroyed. this bad weather is not just recent, it started months ago. in january of this year i wrote to the uk government saying that it should apply to the european solidarity fund for money for these areas. it is only the uk government, as a member state, that can apply for this money. unfortunately, it seems reluctant to do so: maybe because it will impact on the uk rebate; maybe because the government is embarrassed to come to the european union and ask for money when it spends so much time criticising the eu. the government should put all these things aside. it should put the flooded areas and flooded communities first and not treasury finances. once again, i call on the uk government to apply for this funding from the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, as you know the south of england and wales have, since christmas, been hit by storm after storm. indeed, this has been the case across the whole of the south. farmland is under metres of water, rail lines have been washed away or covered by landslips, trees and power lines are down and thousands of people have been forced out of their homes and businesses. this week i visited a family in my constituency that have for two weeks had raw sewage in the whole street, in their houses and in their gardens and there is no sign of this going down – the drains are collapsing. yet we have a minister who is in denial about climate change and dithering about whether they dare call on the european solidarity fund. when the lib dems wrote to point out that the money was there, first they were not going to claim for it, then they were, and last week i was notified by twitter that they had decided that they would not be claiming. we have to campaign hard to make sure that our ministers claim what is there for the taking. time is running out and we need you, commissioner, to help encourage them to work on the preventative work on floods, so that we can build up flood defences. we also need restoration – especially of our cultural heritage – and accommodation for those people who are out of their homes. we need a lot more information getting down to the regional governments so that they can also assist in claiming. we cannot allow euroscepticism by my government to get in the way of claiming what is rightly there for our european citizens and my constituents to help them over this terrible time and build preventative systems for the future, because we know that we are going to get more storms in the future.
mr president, i represent the west midlands in the united kingdom where we have had terrible weather conditions. this has caused a tremendous amount of damage through floods, namely in shropshire, herefordshire and worcestershire. at the last plenary here in strasbourg, a spanish mep stood up and said he wanted more funds for spain to deal with weather damage. that is all well and good, but spain is already a net taker from the european union. what about my constituents? what about the people in the west midlands who do not get any of this emergency fund? i am concerned about them. i am concerned about the impact on their lives. the uk pays gdp[nbsp ]52 million a day to the european union. when do we get our share back?
member of the commission. - mr president, first i would like to thank you for your comments. in recent years, the eu has significantly strengthened its efforts to support member states in disaster risk prevention. as part of the eu disaster prevention framework, the commission is developing, in cooperation with member states, a number of initiatives including, in particular, risk assessment and risk management planning, exchange of good practices, peer reviews and data collection standards. strong synergies with climate adaptation action are pursued, and climate- and disaster-resilient investments supported, through the cohesion policy. disaster risk prevention considerations have been integrated into a number of key eu policies such as transport and energy, health, environmental impact assessment, ecosystems, agriculture, food and nutrition security, flood risk management, major industrial accident prevention, and research and innovation. specifically for flood prevention: in 2015 member states are expected to adopt flood risk management plans as required under the floods directive. the eu’s cohesion policy offers good opportunities to support working with nature to reduce flood risk by restoring floodplains and riparian areas, also known as green infrastructure. the new union civil protection mechanism legislation, adopted in late 2013 by the council and parliament, significantly strengthens prevention actions and also puts obligations on member states to prepare multi-hazard risk assessments and assessments of their risk management capabilities. the union civil protection mechanism has also strengthened european cooperation in the field of disaster preparedness, including early warning systems, a 24/7 emergency response coordination centre in brussels, a pool of member states’ disaster response capacities, and high eu co-financing for transporting assistance to the affected areas. the commission proposal to review the eu solidarity fund is currently in its final negotiation stages and i am confident that the new regulation can still be adopted by the legislators before parliament goes into recess. the reform will make the fund simpler to use, quicker to react and more visible to citizens. unfortunately it is clear that the budget resources of the solidarity fund are much more limited now than they were until last year, because the mff decisions have reduced the solidarity fund from eur[nbsp ]1 billion per year to eur[nbsp ]500 million per year. it is all the more important, therefore, that member states step up their prevention and preparedness efforts. considerable amounts of funding are available under the new financing period of the european union structural and investment funds where risk prevention is recognised as one of the priorities of the erdf. as i said, the commission’s emergency response coordination centre, the eu solidarity fund and the multiple disaster risk prevention measures in place offer member states a wide range of tools with which to face severe weather conditions. the commission is working continuously to improve these tools. many of you raised the issue of the activation of the solidarity fund. first of all, i would like to explain that the solidarity fund is often mistaken for an emergency instrument. it was not conceived as such but is rather a financial instrument to help bear the financial burden inflicted on the country as a consequence of a major disaster. as such, it can help cover the cost of emergency operations retroactively from day one of the disaster. as i said in my introduction, the fund can only be activated once a member state has submitted its application. if this is the case, of course the commission will do everything possible to shorten the procedure to the absolute minimum.
in writing. – wales has been badly hit by the extreme weather in recent months, particularly the coastal areas. i have seen this for myself in tenby, aberystwyth and barmouth in the past weeks and heard from local councillors of the long-term implications for the economy and the environment. local authorities have responded effectively as far as they are able. since the first storms i have been asking the welsh government to explore every possible option to help communities recover and rebuild, including the eu solidarity fund. the aim of the eusf is to help respond quickly to natural disasters, so this is the right time for the uk government to apply to the eu for this emergency funding. unfortunately the uk, as the member state government, has to make the application. at the same time the welsh government must to do all in its power to persuade the uk to apply. this is much bigger than pro- or anti-eu feelings. it is about putting people and communities first. i believe in making europe work for wales, and there is no better way of doing that than by offering support at this time of crisis. that is what real european solidarity means.
mr president, in my first debate in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) five years ago, a noblewoman of liberal persuasion convinced herself that i did not know the difference between people travelling with or without a visa, on the one hand, and immigrants on the other. i think that i remarked that i did know the difference but sometimes the travellers did not. people who travel from poor countries to relatively rich ones are not always scrupulously honest about their purposes for, or the intended length of, their visit. in a recent debate in libe, a representative of the commission warned against confusing visa facilitation and visa liberalisation and said that easing the procedure for obtaining the visa, as distinct from waiving it, would not allow the visa holder to overstay. the visa overstayer, he implied, would be waiting in the place he was supposed to have been for the authorities to collect him and return him to his own country. i have heard the commission accused of many things but i did not think that naivety was among them.
in writing. - one hundred and twenty years ago, the british parliament passed the sale of goods act. in 1979, that act was re-enacted with minor amendments and it remains very much the same today. every day in britain, millions of people and thousands of businesses buy and sell under contracts governed by the sale of goods act. the act has stood the test of time because it is a model of brevity, clarity and simplicity. now along comes the commission, in its self-absorbed wisdom, proffering a common european sales law. twice the length of the uk sale of goods act, it is a minor masterpiece of legislative flatulence which will benefit only lawyers. it is voluntary for the uk at the moment, but on past form our british consumers will eventually be deprived of the tried and tested benefits of english law and our government will be powerless.
in writing. - while i support the need to reduce administrative barriers to cross-border eu trade, i believe this proposal for a common european sales law would simply add a new layer of legal tightropes for traders. in my constituency, northern ireland, 98% of businesses are smes, and of course, this parliament should be looking at ways of reducing operational burdens and allowing them to successfully enter markets in other parts of europe. and to achieve this, there must be a focus on removing language obstacles, improving resolution of disputes and improving delivery. however, we do not need new laws to do this. we need improved implementation of existing legislation and a reduction in stifling red tape. this proposal would be highly confusing for traders given that existing national contract laws in each of the 28 member states would remain active. they would simply be subject to a legal lucky dip. i also feel that harmonisation of this sales law would simply reinforce the commission’s agenda of full-scale integration of contract law in other areas of national economic policy. this is unacceptable. our legal traditions must be respected, and i trust that parliament will resolve to reject this intrusion.
in writing. - i am generally supportive of harmonisation of consumer rights across the eu, as this facilitates the fair and smooth functioning of the internal market. i remain unconvinced, however, that the proposed common european sales law will have a wholly positive influence on all the legal systems of the eu and, accordingly, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the common european sales law as i feel it has the potential to support and benefit small and medium-sized businesses involved in cross-border transactions. my hope is that this would lead to increased transnational sales and an enhanced single market with strengthened consumer rights.
in writing. - i voted against the introduction of an optional contract law regime which is bad for the single market, bad for business and bad for consumers. the european commission has consistently failed to provide any evidence that contract law has placed insurmountable barriers to cross-border consumer trade. if evidence demonstrated this to be the case, then a response from the commission would be understandable. however, the introduction of a common european sales law is not a solution to the legal difficulties encountered by consumers. if anything, the commission’s proposals exacerbate problems by adding complexity to the scope and application of cesl. the proposals are bad for the single market, as they would cause confusion by offering alternative and competing legal frameworks. they are bad for consumers as they give the upper hand to businesses to choose which regulatory frameworks should apply. finally, they are bad for business, as they add massively to costs by setting up a completely new alternative legal regime and requiring the close involvement of translators, international lawyers and judges. completion of the single market will not be advanced by an instrument that splits and fragments national and cross-border consumer protection, and as such i cannot support this proposal.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal because i believe this proposal would trigger legal uncertainty by creating an additional legal regime next to the legal regimes of the member states and raise questions of subsidiarity (taking into account the legal form of the proposed regulation). an optional instrument is unsuitable for consumer contracts, the trader deciding whether to offer the application of the common european sales law or not. this creates an asymmetry of information and power to the detriment of the consumer. the proposal would undermine the level of consumer protection in some member states, so i have voted against it.
in writing. - i could not vote in favour of this report, as i believe it could be damaging for consumer rights and harmful for businesses, generating increased costs and legal uncertainty in their transactions across borders. i would rather see the european commission focus on reviewing and improving existing initiatives supporting the single market.
in writing. - i refused to support this proposal, which aims to provide an alternative eu law for consumers buying online from other eu member states. while the internal market should reduce bureaucracy, i believe that this new law will fail to simplify rules and will make it more difficult for consumers to know what their rights are. while in theory, a common european sales law should provide consumers and businesses with a single set of rules that co-exist with national rules already in place, i do not believe that this proposal in its current form will strengthen consumer rights.
in writing. - this report was intended to set uniform contract rules for traders and consumers in cross-border transactions. the rules would co-exist with pre-existing national laws in member states and, crucially, they would be optional, only applying if parties opt for them in a specific cross-border contract. while i believe that we need to strengthen consumer rights and remove barriers to cross-border trade, i do not believe that the report in its current form will achieve this. as an optional instrument, the common rules would simply create legal uncertainty for consumers and would be unlikely to be offered to consumers in any case if it provided them with greater protection than national law. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments to remove the optional element of the rules and to send the report back to committee for further consideration.
mr president, smoking contributes to nearly 700[nbsp ]000 deaths a year in europe and of course i welcome the vast majority of the tobacco products directive report and support its aims in seeking to dissuade people from smoking. increased health warnings are included on the packaging, which is a good thing. it is therefore very disappointing that there has been such an insistence to include measures that will all but ban e-cigarettes, illustrating a complete lack of understanding of their harm-reduction strategy and usage. e-cigarettes have not become an addition to the tobacco market, but rather a tool for those in the process of quitting or a preferable compromise for those that have not been able to quit. there is still much scientific research to be conducted regarding e-cigarettes, but everyone agrees that their effects are far less damaging than cigarettes, and probably better than nicotine patches or nicotine chewing gum. certainly, while cigarettes have killed millions worldwide, including in my constituency of london, no single death to my knowledge has ever been attributed to the use of their electronic equivalent.
in writing. - throughout the revision of the tobacco products directive, my approach has been consistent and balanced. protecting young people from the dangers of smoking is vital. for this reason, i strongly support, and now welcome, many measures included within the package, including more prominent health warnings on packs and a ban on products imitating cigarettes. the ill-effects of smoking are undeniable and i am pleased that this revision tackles many of the determining factors. we now need education as well as legislation. however, i have also been committed to ensuring that changes in manufacturing are proportionate to preserving local jobs in the industry in my constituency, northern ireland. and i have voted against the directive on this basis alone. over recent months, i have worked tirelessly to protect the 200-300 jobs at jti ballymena that are now under threat as a result of the 30g minimum weight set for packs of roll-your-own tobacco. parliament previously democratically endorsed a 20g limit; however this decision was usurped at late-night trilogue negotiations last year. regrettably, this provision will make hundreds of people redundant, bringing severe hardship to families and the local economy in northern ireland.
in writing. - this house had been subjected to intensive lobbying from the tobacco industry and it is regrettable that the final agreement is not as strong as it could have been. nevertheless, i welcome the strengthening of the law insofar as it goes, and am satisfied that member states can press ahead with plain packaging. the scottish government has fought the tobacco lobby through the courts and intends to maintain its fight against smoking.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the tobacco products directive today. the outcome of the negotiations on this file show how effective the parliament can be in having its views heard. the fact that the maximum nicotine level of e-cigarettes is so much closer to parliament’s position than the commission or council position highlights this. however, i do feel that it could have been higher in order to encourage more people to quit conventional cigarettes. on balance, i believe the directive is an important step in the fight against tobacco-related diseases.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will discourage many young people in scotland from smoking. this directive will stop many of the practices used by tobacco companies to attract people to start smoking. for example it will stop packaging specifically aimed at women and flavoured cigarettes, which are more prevalent in other member states than the uk. it will also make warnings bigger and ensure that packaging is plainer.
in writing. - my intention has never been to impede the adoption of this directive. i recognise the potential of the tpd to improve health in the eu; i have only ever asked that it does not come at a disproportionate cost to our communities in northern ireland and across the eu. the directive that was adopted today is inherently flawed. changes were being made to the text right up until last week, and there has been no opportunity for scrutiny at committee level or in plenary. article 13(1) is a perfect example of an unsatisfactory european compromise. the commission said 40g, parliament said 20g, and they decided on 30g. there is no evidence to support the 30g figure as a disincentive to young people any more than 20g will act as a disincentive. i promised to leave no stone unturned for my constituents in lisnafillen, and i have done all that i can. that is why today i voted against article 13(1) and against the tpd. i cannot accept that families’ livelihoods should be put at risk for the sake of an evidentially unsupported compromise, and i am extremely disappointed and dismayed with the result of this vote.
in writing. - unlike conservative and ukip meps siding with the big tobacco companies, i voted for this report as it aims to prevent the tobacco industry from recruiting the next generation of smokers.
in writing. - i fully support efforts to update eu legislation on tobacco products and discourage younger people from taking up smoking. however, what i could not support today were the moves contained within this new legislation to over-regulate e-cigarettes. i have been contacted by hundreds of constituents in wales who have wanted to share with me their stories of how e-cigarettes have helped them to move away from tobacco. however, despite my conservative colleagues and i fighting hard for sensible regulation of e-cigarettes, the parliament has opted for draconian restrictions which i fear may send some e-cigarette users back to more harmful tobacco.
in writing. - by voting in favour of this piece of legislation my colleagues and i have introduced some vital changes and made inroads in the fight against the deadly addiction to tobacco. smoking is the greatest single cause of avoidable death in wales, causing nearly one in five of all deaths in people aged 35 and over. with picture warnings now due to cover two thirds of the pack, i very much hope that governments will take the extra step and remove branding from the remaining space. the measures, which will come into effect in mid-2016, will also ban products that are specifically targeted at children, e.g. chocolate flavour cigarettes and i fully support these measures to protect children from being cynically targeted by tobacco companies.
in writing. - i have been campaigning on tobacco for several years and was pleased to support this report, which aims to cut smoking rates across the eu by making it harder for tobacco companies to target children. smoking is the leading cause of preventable death in europe, and with the majority of smokers starting before the age of 18, it is clear that we must stop tobacco companies recruiting a new generation of smokers. measures in the report include a ban on flavoured cigarettes and tobacco, a ban on perfume and lipstick-style packets for cigarettes, and standardisation of the size and shape of packets, including a ban on mini-packets of 10 cigarettes. in addition, 65[nbsp ]% graphic health warnings will cover the front and back of packs. i would have liked to see the report go further in this area and introduce completely standardised packaging, but i am pleased that the member states will be allowed to choose to do this and hope the uk government will stick to its commitment to bring in standardised packaging in the uk.
in writing. - at a time when instances of human trafficking are soaring across europe, and millions of women and girls continue to be sold into a life of sexual exploitation, i fully support the focus of this report. the nordic model of regulation has had proven results. by criminalising paying for sex, these countries have accepted that because prostitution breeds an undercurrent of trafficking, organised crime and sexual abuse, it should be cut off at the very roots. in my own constituency, northern ireland, my party colleague lord morrow has been leading the way on this issue. his human trafficking and sexual exploitation bill would criminalise the purchase of sex, tackling demand for trafficking. it would also put in place mechanisms to better support victims and prosecute offenders. these measures are vital to enact social justice to my own society, and i would encourage parliament to follow this direction and end all perceptions of women as commodities that can be bought and sold.
in writing. - solvit is a key problem-solving tool that remains under-used and has not fulfilled its potential. member states and the commission need to work together to raise awareness and invest in these centres so that they can become a key problem-solving tool and ultimately benefit the single market.
in writing. - i fully support this resolution, which emphasises that ukraine deserves the eu’s support and assistance as it looks ahead to a difficult period of political transition. the new coalition government faces huge challenges as it looks to stabilise the economic situation, transparency and the rule of law in the country. the current violent unrest is very worrying and the eu must play a key role in defusing the current tensions by helping to build constructive dialogue in kiev. providing financial assistance will also be vital and i am pleased that this resolution calls on the eu to take the lead in organising an international donors’ conference to raise money.
mr[nbsp ]president, drones have received much adverse publicity recently with regard to their targeted use in the fight against international terrorism, particularly in afghanistan and pakistan. while the emergence of drones poses new questions about their nature and even about the future of warfare, it is important to remember that, although drones are unmanned, there is always overall human control, and those individuals are required to operate within international law. it is also worth noting that much of the opposition to their use comes from sectors that are always opposed to any kind of western military intervention. with that in mind, i would reaffirm that one of the underlying considerations in any military operation is to limit civilian casualties, and military casualties on one’s own side, as far as possible. the precision and the unmanned nature of drones reflect that thinking. i have to say that this is a very complicated issue, and i personally believe we may need more international legal clarity as to the use of these weapons, and we may need to convene a un convention for this purpose.
mr[nbsp ]president, i voted against this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu, because of a number of issues that call into question member states’ independence. a key feature of the copenhagen criteria is respect for human rights, yet this report seems to suggest that certain member states are failing in this area. the proposals for a ‘freezing procedure’ also seem to imply that national judicial systems cannot be trusted when judging certain cases. it is unacceptable to suggest that, if deemed necessary in certain cases, even interference in national parliaments is an appropriate action by the eu. i have frequently spoken out against the one-size-fits-all model, and unfortunately this report is attempting to impose a top-down model on all member states. judicial systems cannot be fully harmonised and judicial matters should, generally and wherever possible, fall within the competence of individual member states.
in writing. - 2014 marks the centenary year of the outbreak of the first world war in europe; 21 years later came the second world war. in the aftermath of these events, the founding values and principles of the eu were born. to accede to the eu, a country within europe must show that it adheres to article 6 of the treaty on the eu which states: ‘the union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law, principles which are common to the member states.’ over the years, the concept of fundamental rights and freedoms has developed further. british conservatives fully support the concept and, in doing so support the rights of the child; we support the need to combat discrimination in all its forms; we condemn violence against women, racist, anti-semitic, homophobic and xenophobic violence. we are, however, unable to support this report in its entirety. primarily, this is because this parliament cannot and should not act as judge and jury when a particular political faction here objects to the national laws in one of our member states. we are a political house, not a courtroom.
in writing. - parliament’s second report on fundamental rights in the eu has my support. an eu roadmap against homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity is once again called for by this report, which is an important step in ensuring lgbt equality and fundamental rights for all. the report also addresses many important issues such as the rights of minorities and persons with disabilities, and also urges member states to finally adopt a directive banning discrimination in education, social protection and the provision of goods and services. i firmly believe that it is vital for national governments to invest in policies that integrate persons with disabilities in society by removing discrimination and restrictions, and also to help them live independently.
mr president, in my view the european arrest warrant is an instrument which has, in fact, brought benefits to the united kingdom. so much modern crime is, by its very nature, transnational and we cannot underestimate the value of being able to coordinate police and judicial processes across the 28[nbsp ]member states, in order to ensure rapid surrendering of suspects when necessary. however, the scheme is far from perfect. i have always maintained that the eaw should only be used for the most serious of crimes and only when both member states concerned recognise the offence as such, in other words that there is proportionality and double criminality. other proposals, such as the right of refusal on human rights grounds, standardised consultation procedures, legal remedies such as the need for habeas corpus and regular reviews, all appear to me to be sensible methods of improving and harmonising a system which has brought some value to the tackling of crime throughout the european union.
mr president, the schengen area may be of benefit to its participants. however, as a member for london in the united kingdom, i was reminded of the value of our non-participation when reading certain parts of the report. it notes that a policy of full visa reciprocity should be pursued and, of course, i generally support this idea from an eu perspective, in as much as we should under no circumstances offer visa-free travel to third countries of similar per capita income that do not offer the same guarantee. this should not, however, dissuade the eu from seeking advantageous agreements with third countries, particularly in cases where there is a large disparity in the migratory push and pull factors between the third country and the union. but we cannot ignore the economic realities and benefits that would be brought to both parties in such a circumstance. finally, as a longstanding friend of ukraine, armenia and georgia, i would like to add my support to the visa facilitation direction of travel policy that is being pursued for the eastern neighbourhood. but we have to be very careful on a matter which is incredibly sensitive and my country, for the time being, remains out of the schengen area.
in writing. - i support this report on private copying levies. this report underscores various crucial factors concerning private copying levies such as: that there should be greater transparency when outlining such levies to consumers by, e.g. outlining the method for establishing the levy, the amount and its purpose. i support the report’s main goals including that there should be no double payment for consumers in cross-border situations.
madam president, the existence of the eib is justified on the grounds of perceived need. the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) bemoans the fact that there was a lack of sustainable and viable projects that were eligible for eib funding. it appears that the eib criteria did not match the investment need. there is certainly a need for investment in infrastructure in the member states. however, investment can be carried out more cheaply, more efficiently and in a more targeted way by those member states creating the credit themselves rather than borrowing from external institutions and adding sovereign debt. the principle of ‘what is physically possible must be financially possible’ should be followed. president obama, no less, when introducing the american jobs act, said it was a contradiction for a bridge in maine to be in need of repair while construction workers were unemployed. however, the resolution of that contradiction seems to have eluded him. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – (inaudible as microphone not switched on) … it is for the econ committee to reply to that and not for me to.
mr president, the explanatory memorandum in ms[nbsp ]zuberʼs report says that the effects of austerity in greece, ireland, portugal and elsewhere are that women are suffering disproportionately, but of course all workers are suffering from those measures, not just women. the urgent need is to end the austerity programmes she refers to, and membership of the euro area which is the thing that they are supposed to sustain. when those countries benefit from an export-led expansion following withdrawal from the euro area, there will indeed be prosperity to be divided fairly between men and women, which must happen. to seek to divide austerity fairly is to exonerate its architects from responsibility and distract attention from the cause of their suffering.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur for all his hard work on this file. i acknowledge what a difficult task that has been, with 1[nbsp ]400 amendments to work through. significant amongst those amendments – and quite unique, actually, in my short experience in this house – was a widespread desire to delete the package altogether and send it back to the drawing board. the main aim of this proposal, we have been told, is simplification. the whole five-file package of proposals is headlined by the commission as an improvement, creating a common framework and making all our lives easier. the problem is that there is little evidence of any of that happening at all. whilst i hear the arguments of the commissioner, i think he has to accept and acknowledge that he has failed to convince us with those arguments. in many areas this proposal takes us one step forward and two steps backwards. much of the justification for this regulation is based around the claim providing more certainty in food production, and yet it adds costs for farmers and the seed industry. for example, all new varieties of fruit and vegetables would need distinctiveness, uniformity and stability testing, which is not currently the case. all ornamental species will now be required to have a detailed, officially-recognised description, leading to unknown and unestimated additional costs. the need for registration is extended to forestry reproductive material with no justification whatsoever. it is clear from the impact assessment that the ramifications of many of these proposals have been underestimated or not considered at all. in short, i would say that the impact assessment is inadequate. the proposal fails to explain new concepts, such as niche markets and heterogeneous materials, and is unconvincing as to why these have been included. normally reservations about a proposal would be dealt with at committee, with questions asked and commissioners – hopefully – answering them, compromises negotiated and agreed – but this has not proved possible in this case. this is because of the sheer range of concerns and the real possibility that the final text which resulted would be a mixed and matched muddle of such proportions as to render it incoherent and unworkable: the exact opposite of the smart regulation principles that we have all been striving for over the last five years. this is serious. a new regulation supersedes all current national regulation. current legislation implements the 12 separate eu directives. member states will be required to create new penalties for infringements, and we simply cannot go forward blindly on that. i look forward to taking this work forward in the next mandate.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i call on all members to reject the commission proposal on plant reproductive material and ask that no mandate for negotiations be opened. this proposal is a joke. it is not fit for purpose, and the commission really needs to go back to the drawing board on this one. it does not need to go back to the drawing board in order to get a better communication strategy but to get a better proposal. this is a simple case of the commission putting the needs of industry before farmers. should the commission’s proposal with this regulation proceed, it could result in established farming practices becoming illegal. without doubt, seeds are a resource given by nature, and there should be no attempt whatsoever to regulate their use in agriculture. any attempt to do so, especially in times of food insecurity, is absolutely preposterous. the commission’s proposal also severely limits the freedom of member states and gives the commission excessive powers over markets that they are far removed from. i am happy to see that the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development have spoken almost unanimously, with 37 members to two rejecting the proposal. i also hope that tomorrow’s vote will see proceed it no further.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i actually agreed with some of what sinn fein had to say (not all of it). that is unusual, isn’t it? of course, proper democracy has certain characteristics. laws should come from parliament and not from officials. when a parliament ends, so should its current work. an elected parliament does not bind its successor as we are seeing an attempt here to do. the silvestris report illustrates everything that is wrong with so-called eu democracy. parliament is, of course, right to reject the report. the commission is trying to introduce major new legislation far too close to the end of this parliament. the commission proposal should be rejected and withdrawn, and these are propositions which we in ukip would vote for, and that is where the whole thing should stop. but in the alice-in-wonderland world of eu institutions, nothing can ever be that simple. both lewis carroll and franz kafka would be proud of that extra little phrase: ‘and submit a new oneʼ. in a real parliament, of course, that would just not be there; it would be for those elected in may to decide whether or not legislation should come in or not. but in the surreal eu version of democracy, the incoming parliament is told what to do. because laws come from the commission – from bureaucrats – we know it will happen. my group was refused a split vote; we wanted to say ‘yesʼ to reject the proposal and ‘noʼ to having the thing come back again, but you would not let us do it. so all we can do is abstain on the consolidated vote.
mr president, the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on many occasions do disagree, but on this occasion they are agreed on what is actually happening, and i must say that i support the rejection of the proposed plant reproductive material. but we could ask the commission to give real consideration to the many amendments tabled in both committees, should they present a new proposal. as many of my constituents have made very clear, we should not allow the eu to prescribe what we can or cannot grow in our own gardens. heritage varieties are an integral part of the rich countryside, and our constituents do not need to be inhibited in how they plant their gardens. the recent proposal threatens to effectively close down the ornamental market to new plant varieties under already restrictive registration requirements. if we are serious about promoting innovation and biodiversity in the eu, i find such measures very strange indeed. this proposal is universally disliked... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i have found a place for this proposal, and it is on my compost heap, where it needs to go and rot. diversity of garden plants should be cherished and championed, not regulated and restricted. as a gardener, i say we need our lupins, our lavenders, our dahlias and our day lilies. gardeners in the uk can choose from over 50[nbsp ]000 different varieties of plants, and we must not have a system that is so costly that our choices will be cut down. horticulture is not a hobby: it is also worth over nine billion to the uk economy alone. registering each one of these plants would cost a company over gbp[nbsp ]300, and we cannot have it. we have tried to change the law, to make it less damaging, but actually it is completely unnecessary. it is unwanted; it does not help the consumer; it does not help the industry. let us dig it up and shred it!
mr president, the tragic developments in ukraine and the horrors of syria are just a few of the more recent events that need to be seen not only in political terms but in terms of human tragedy. whilst we all follow current events, we must not forget the events of the past that are still being played out. i refer to the 2[nbsp ]900 people who now live in camp liberty – people who were thrown out of camp ashraf, refugees living in inhuman circumstances. last week i was told that food lorries were even stopped. what was the point of this? was it to starve these people to death? is this the civilised world we live in? and whilst we talk about humanity, let us not forget the 52 refugees murdered on 1[nbsp ]september[nbsp ]2013 while protecting camp ashraf, and the missing seven innocent refugees – including six women – who were taken hostage. i will hold a conference in london to seek answers on the fate of these hostages and i ask vice-president/high representative ashton to join me and give families … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, for 15 years i have heard members of the uk independence party (ukip) come here and attack the european union, but in reality, as we all know, they take their money while doing precious little to defend the ‘interests’ they hold dear. their attendance record is dire. they are not here when it matters. we have seen nigel farage, their leader, turn up to the committee on fisheries for the first time ever, only to resign, ‘exhausted’, after three hours’ voting. paul nuttall, their deputy leader, serves on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, alongside me. in four years i have seen him turn up to vote on just one occasion. that was last july, on the amendments to the tobacco products directive and, in particular, on electronic cigarettes. his sole attendance in that committee only came after ukip had received a donation of gbp[nbsp ]25[nbsp ]000 from a manufacturer of electronic cigarettes. so now we know it – gdp[nbsp ]25[nbsp ]000 in political donations. that is the price of a ukip vote. let us remember that next time they try to lecture us all and claim the moral high ground.
mr president, in my constituency of northern ireland we have an outrageous situation where the previous labour government of tony blair introduced a secret scheme offering so-called ‘comfort letters’ to ira terrorists known as on-the-runs. this scheme was introduced at the behest of sinn fein and administered entirely for their benefit. it only came to light when the trial against a man accused of the london hyde park bombing collapsed because he had such a letter preventing him from prosecution. there is no evidence to demonstrate that knowledge of the process went beyond a clique of republicans, their confidants and the government. it is time for truth and transparency. the first minister in northern ireland has forced a judge-led enquiry into this scheme. the coalition government has stated that this scheme is over and will ensure that letters cannot be relied upon to avoid prosecution. the truth about a process which circumvented the uk parliament and undermined the justice system must be exposed. on this european day for victims of terrorism, the truth and ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr[nbsp ]president, the european regional development fund (erdf) is anathema to my constituents. it is promoted as a benefit of the eu, yet we see precious little of the money from the fund – which is, after all, uk taxpayers’ money – being returned to us, and when it does come it is much reduced and has strings attached. one erdf-funded project is the coventry arena. in 2003 coventry city council received gbp[nbsp ]4.75[nbsp ]million from the fund. last june i submitted a freedom-of-information request to the council seeking to ascertain the purpose of the grant. at the same time, i submitted an official question to the commission seeking the same information. imagine my surprise when the answers did not match. in fact, they could not be further apart. with other information that has come to my attention in the past year, and given coventry city council’s constant refusal to meet me about these discrepancies in funding, i can only conclude that they have something to hide. when the commission sought clarification of the situation, the council changed its position. today i can confirm that i am referring the matter to the eu anti-fraud office, olaf, so that it can investigate this use of taxpayers’ money. there is something rotten at the heart of coventry city council. is there something fraudulent as well?
blue-card question. – mr sánchez presedo, thank you very much for taking my question. you mentioned in your remarks what the interpreter translated as ‘automatic exchange of information’ and ‘transparency’. in your view, should automatic exchange of information and transparency include the role of luxembourg as a tax haven for multinational companies within the european union, and is it legitimate therefore for mr santer to put himself forward as a candidate for president of the commission when he has presided over a tax haven?
mr president, can i congratulate sophie on her excellent work, which i am pleased to say follows the revision that i have tried to undertake on behalf of parliament. it is sad that, despite big compromises by parliament, this is still blocked in council and by the commission. but i am hopeful that when we look at sophie’s report, which i think goes a bit further (which – if you allow me, sophie – is a bit more avant garde), it will send a message to the council and the commission that parliament, far from backing way and taking perhaps a less moderate position, is increasing its demand for openness and transparency. it is a great shame, but not a surprise, that parts of the epp have tried to undermine this report – my revision, that is, and indeed the whole report – because what we need is more transparency, not less. i say to those elements – and ms sommer in particular – what are you afraid of? where is there something to be afraid of in engaging your citizens? if you are afraid of democracy then please give up this job and find another, because democracy is all about accountability. let me finish on this: we need to look at one of the problems that was not envisaged, and that is the burden on ngos of continuous and systematic requests of documents which undermine them and their ability to do their work. i commend this report to the house and ask you to reject the alternative motion for a resolution, which does not have the interests of democracy at heart.
rapporteur. - mr[nbsp ]president, i am pleased to be able to present this report today, and i sincerely hope it receives wide support when it comes to the vote. horticulture is a hugely important subject for europe. i believe that horticulture can make a great contribution both to the european economy and to feeding the world at a time when we are all very concerned about food security. the report stresses the importance of promoting the horticulture sector and, particularly, of enabling it to compete better in the global marketplace through innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and adaptation to climate change, all of which the report covers. food security is a major issue for all of us. within 20 years we will need approximately 40[nbsp ]% more food than we currently produce. at the moment horticulture produces 18[nbsp ]% of europe’s agricultural output using only 3[nbsp ]% of the land, so there is great scope for pushing that forward. we must also be able to export, and my report emphasises the need to make it easier for our producers to gain access to third-country markets. the export value of our ornamentals is approximately eur[nbsp ]1.9[nbsp ]billion a year. there are many other things which i would like to bring to your attention, but i will not have time to cover all of them. the report very much supports producer organisations (pos), and it calls on the commission, in its review of the fruit and veg regime which is just coming out, to give us some clear and practical rules on the working methods of pos and to adjust the scheme to fit the market conditions in the various member states. we have seen, particularly in the uk, examples of pos being de-recognised simply because they do not seem to fit the way that the commission envisages them working. the rules need to be much more helpful to growers and their organisations. another aspect is integrated pest management (ipm), which is an area with much scope for future development. if we are going to compete in the global marketplace we must embrace new methods and new techniques. we cannot afford to bury our heads in the sand and say that we want to revert to completely organic, green, never-touch-anything methods. developments like ipm give us the opportunity to improve the way we do things, but we cannot for the moment do without plant protection products, various sprays and indeed neonicotinoids. we must make sure that any decisions we take are based on scientific evidence and are not only hazard-based. i would like to pay tribute to organisations such as harper adams university, in my own region of the west midlands, which are very active in this area. lastly, and particularly in the light of youth unemployment levels across europe, we have a great opportunity to offer worthwhile careers in horticulture. we need botanists, agricultural engineers and plant scientists: all these fields offer fulfilling, worthwhile careers that we must encourage our young people to take up.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i want first of all to say thank you very much to the commissioner for his kind words, to mr balz for the work that he has done, and also to the team we have had to work on omnibus ii. this process has been fraught with interesting dilemmas, mainly surrounding national and industrial issues, but also about how to protect the consumer. we have managed to put those things in balance. it has been marked, i believe, by the fact that it has taken a long time for us to get solvency ii to the starting point it is at, but when i look back to many years ago, when we embarked on this, i have to say that the most remarkable thing is that it is here and so far it is a success, in terms of the parliamentary system at least. the next years will be most difficult, for the future european parliament, concerning implementation of this legislation, because quite apart from the technical nature of its internal workings, this law has a very basic and simple truth about it: it was borne outside of and conceived outside of the financial crisis and is the most comprehensive piece of financial services legislation in terms of solvency ii. it deals, therefore, with a complete picture – the big picture – of an industry, and instead of perhaps being forced down the throats of politicians, we have welcomed it and nurtured it along. in that respect, it is a bold experiment about how the single market at a european level can truly work to the benefit of both consumers and companies working within it. there were elements which make for a very great success for this report. the one i am choosing to talk about today is third-country recognition and how it is clear that we have not cut our nose off to spite our face in order to face the rest of the world. this has been a great success. the team has worked well, and i thank everybody who has performed and worked towards it.
rapporteur. - mr president, what we are discussing here today is an essential crime-fighting measure. money laundering may seem like a less dangerous form of crime in some people’s minds, but in reality it goes right to the heart of criminality in europe. these offences fund some of society’s worst crimes, such as terrorism and drug smuggling – and indeed people smuggling too. the fight against money laundering is not an easy one: it requires often lengthy and laborious processes in following trails; it involves dedicated individuals sifting through reams of information looking for anomalies; but it is worth it. at the end of the process, they end up catching real criminals: the leaders of crime gangs who are responsible for the vast majority of organised crime in europe. our most central aim is to make it easier for our law enforcement bodies to prevent the abuse of our financial systems and to prosecute criminals. we must make it harder for illegitimate money to be hidden in europe’s legal economy. money laundering does not restrict itself to the borders of individual countries. money changes hands and legal jurisdictions constantly. the very nature of organised crime and of money laundering requires us all to be prepared to put in place nothing short of the most robust rules. i have always believed that, in any fight against fraud and money laundering, sunshine is the best disinfectant. my hope with this package of legislation is that it will shine a very bright light on the dark and murky depths of organised crime. i am rapporteur on the fund transfer regulation and shadow rapporteur on the anti-money laundering directive. both go hand in hand and set out to update the current anti-money laundering (aml) rules by changing the way we use information to spot fraudsters. we are all aware of the problems created by the last money laundering directive, but i believe this is our opportunity to learn from those mistakes. this package is about making life easier for those who are innocent and harder for those who commit crimes. i welcome the main changes, which mean that, when the new rules are implemented, we will adopt a risk-based approach, extend the scope to cover gambling and open up company ownership to the public. these are fundamental changes, and there will be profound consequences. however, i believe they will be viewed positively by citizens and businesses and negatively by criminals. i hope these new rules will help us to tackle not just money laundering but also tax evasion, and that they will eventually breed even greater confidence in our economy. there have been some big talking points. on my report, my co-rapporteur and i saw a number of amendments tabled which would strip away the simplified payments regime that exists within europe, but we were both of the opinion that this was unnecessary and would disproportionately disadvantage many payment providers and their customers, while providing little aml value. on the directive itself, we found that the main areas of debate were how to deal with beneficial ownership, gambling and politically-exposed persons. we worked hard to find good compromises. i would like to touch on trusts. it is well known that the uk has a special situation regarding trusts. they provide the legal basis for a number of transactions and institutions such as property ownership, estate planning, wills and insurance. it is thought that the mandatory registration of trusts would not only compromise the privacy of individuals but also add red tape and costs to family financial planning. the fact that they fall under the uk’s common law system also adds complications and, as a lawyer, i am aware of the difficulties that this poses. i have worked hard to find language that limits the risk of public exposure for vulnerable people and in cases where the trusts themselves pose little or no risk of money laundering, such as in relation to wills. i am happy that this has been taken on board, but i have tabled a further amendment. it is a debate we repeatedly have in this house that the fight against crime must not be pursued at the cost of a person’s right to privacy and in the absence of proportionality. finally, this is about making sure that our payment institutions and law enforcement bodies are better able to spot anomalies that occur in financial data and stop serious criminal activity. colleagues have worked hard on this proposal and i fully support it.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. - mr[nbsp ] president, i am speaking for the committee on development to give its opinion. we are very concerned that eu aid to countries in need of it should not fall into the hands of dictators and their supporters, who money-launder it away into swiss bank accounts, but that it should go to the people of those countries. this is very obvious, but it is an extremely important issue. the second point i want to make is that – as those who followed the work of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering (the crim committee) will know – money laundering is extremely easy, so there is a great deal of work to be done. member states do not even implement existing legislation: this is truly shocking, and we look to the commission to make sure that they start to do so, and to follow through and abolish tax havens, rather than just saying they will take action but actually doing nothing. finally, commissioner, with regard to small-scale gambling operations such as racecourse bookies, please remember that these are smes, and that we need jobs, and do not just sweep them away because you want to. small on-course bookies cannot be home to large-scale money laundering. we need to protect small-scale employment, so please do that.
mr president, i welcome this continued focus on tackling organised crime and its links with terrorism. as a member of parliament for northern ireland, a part of the united kingdom which shares a border with the republic of ireland, i know all too well the relationship between criminals laundering money and fuel and financial backing for terrorist campaigns. it is an undeniable fact that in parts of south armagh and other areas in the border counties of my constituency, criminals have used illegal smuggling operations to generate cash for the murderous activities of the provisional ira. of course, money laundering has been a danger too. it is therefore right that we should ensure as much transparency as possible in relation to the identity of business owners and those who ultimately gain from transactions. however, this must be done in a manner that does not place disproportionate burdens on traders or consumers and should be secondary to support for robust criminal authorities, such as the national crime agency or the organised crime unit of the police service of northern ireland. sadly, in northern ireland, to the shame of nationalists and republican politicians, they have yet to support the national crime agency operating there.
mr president, i wish to thank our joint rapporteurs, mr[nbsp ]kariņš and ms[nbsp ]sargentini. i want to focus on this very fundamental issue of public disclosure of beneficial ownership of companies. introducing public disclosure of the beneficial owners of a company is, of course, a vital step forward in enhancing transparency, but it is equally important that it cannot be easily circumvented. there is ample evidence that some shell companies are at the forefront of criminal activities, from money laundering to tax evasion. criminal money laundered into the financial system accounts for an estimated 2 to 5[nbsp ]% of yearly global gdp. in 2010, african countries lost eur[nbsp ]44.3 billion through illicit financial flows – which is more than the eur[nbsp ]32.9 billion that africa received in aid the same year. this robs african countries of the resources they need to invest in health, agriculture, infrastructure and poverty reduction. so while in principle the eu’s public disclosure rules are designed to deliver accurate and up-to-date information on the beneficial ownership of all eu companies, in practice they may prove not to be robust or effective. that is because, regrettably, parliament’s proposal simply follows the council weak position on the definition of a beneficial owner. the 25[nbsp ]% threshold for disclosure will limit transparency and may only assist those intent on dodging the rules. perhaps those are the jurisdictions that mr[nbsp ]engel just mentioned, and perhaps that is why the council went for this higher threshold, because – perhaps – the uk government wanted this owing to its offshore concerns. in a recent case we also saw that a swiss commodities giant was able to use 18.75[nbsp ]% in a multinational oil company to set up a series of shell companies. it bribed corrupt officials in angola. if the threshold had not been at 25[nbsp ]%, this corrupt company would have had to divulge what was actually going on behind the company. that is why my group has set a threshold for 10[nbsp ]%. i urge colleagues here to vote in favour of that, because if we are serious about setting global standards, we should not go for a low threshold on public disclosure.
mr president, the new rules on money laundering will make it harder for fraudsters and organised criminals to spend their dirty money. it is important that we have eu measures in place to tackle the cross-border element of such crime efficiently. this proposal is bold; for the first time we ask companies to reveal publicly who stands behind them. such a measure will, in particular, help businesses to help identify who their counterparts are, judge if they are reliable and trustworthy and help them identify seemingly anonymous shell companies. the proposal also asks member states to hold information about those who stand behind trusts; this measure is important especially in relation to opaque offshore establishments hiding in tax havens or non-cooperative jurisdictions. the oecd has recently developed standards which will require countries automatically to report to their home companies those people who stand behind such trusts, and that will help us tackle a serious problem. i am surprised that my labour and green colleagues seek to make no distinction between low-risk trusts and high-risk trusts or those offshore. their proposal as it stands calls for the publication of delicate details, including trusts for vulnerable people, in a central registry accessible to all. this has serious data privacy implications, particularly in britain, where such trusts are commonplace. moreover, it is perverse that amendments should be adopted to treat gaming on line differently from gambling in casinos. this measure is a good one, and we will vote accordingly, including in view of the amendments we disagree with.
mr[nbsp ]president, we are voting on the revision of this third anti-money-laundering directive because, as other colleagues have said, the sophisticated means for money laundering and terrorist financing are constantly evolving, and we need to keep up. the rapporteurs have done a good job, and this report is a central element in parliament’s efforts to tackle this type of cross-border criminal activity. as civil society organisations have already publicly stated, enhancing transparency on beneficial owners will make it easier and quicker for law enforcers to follow the criminal money trail. it will allow citizens to hold businesses accountable and will enable businesses to understand who is behind their partners and suppliers. the 2011 world bank study the puppet masters found that 70[nbsp ]% of corruption cases involved phantom firms with unknown owners. achieving transparency on payment sources, fund deposits and transfers, in order to counter terrorism and money laundering, is a legitimate interest of the european parliament, but the proposals must be fully in line with data-protection requirements. our group strongly supports the commission’s list of effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions but, in our amended text, we ask it to report back to parliament, within three years of implementation of the regulation, on the implications of the application of sanctions and monitoring. this is a good piece of work by the rapporteurs: it is what citizens expect in response to the sophisticated way that criminals operate, and i commend it. i also commend our group’s political movement on this dossier, and i welcome what the commission is doing.
mr president, i would like to congratulate all those involved in producing this report. there are few corners of my constituency that have not been touched by the challenges posed by organised criminal gangs, which are often inextricably linked to paramilitary activities. while the police service of northern ireland (psni) has had significant successes in tackling money laundering and disrupting the activities of organised criminal gangs, i have to say that the revision of this directive is extremely welcome. in order to respond effectively to the evolution of criminal activities – particularly sophisticated money laundering operations – it is extremely important that we adopt the legislative package, which will strengthen the ability to respond effectively to this situation in a flexible way. the famous northern bank robbery in northern ireland, where gbp[nbsp ]25 million was stolen from the northern bank, is just one example of how this criminal activity goes on. we have cigarette smuggling, human smuggling and drugs all inextricably linked to terrorist organisations.
rapporteur. - mr president, this has been an interesting debate. it was just slightly negatively affected by the remarks of mr engel about tax havens: particularly the reference to the united kingdom. mr engel perhaps should not have remarked in that way, coming from luxembourg as he does and bearing in mind the remarks of the global forum on transparency relating to luxembourg, in relation to its own act, as it were. we all need to clean up our acts, and both he and we have a job to do. i commend my prime minister, david cameron for the work that he has been doing – certainly with the european union – in leading international efforts to combat tax evasion and increase transparency which, of course, is what this is all about. the only other problem i have is that, when this file has received so much goodwill, as it has – including, as it needs to do, the reference to millions of items of data sets every year and involving the use of profiling, perhaps i should just mention that it is rather sad that, in view of all that goodwill, my file on the eu passenger name record directive (pnr) – which is effectively doing the same thing but protecting us from terrorism and criminals – has for some reason found itself blocked in this parliament for a long time. i hope that is a matter which will now be redressed, following the successful outcome of our discussions on this matter. in conclusion i want to make it very clear that what we are trying to do here is to tighten up rules to make sure that a new set of standards is in place but, at the same time, to make absolutely certain that we do not penalise those that are going about their work and the transactions in which they are involved innocently and positively. we are after criminals; we are after terrorists; we are after dealing with the transfers of funds for illicit purposes, not legal and proper purposes.
mr president, i am not an eu enthusiast at all, and i can see even less justification for the eu to facilitate investment in countries beyond its borders. in the case of countries in eastern europe, i suppose it can be seen as a bribe to lure them into becoming candidate countries and surrendering their sovereignty. north african countries, of course, are not eligible to be members, at least under present rules, but their receipt of investment is a sign that the eu is not so much a european union as a global union in waiting. there will undoubtedly be people in the still-crisis-ridden states of the south who wonder why all such available money is not being invested there. the answer might be that investment will be less effective in those countries when expansion is constrained by a currency that is overvalued for their economies. indeed, withdrawal from the eurozone for those countries would be a prerequisite for effective investment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. the debate has finished but the agenda has also been adopted for the plenary sitting this session. we cannot change the agenda now, so i am going to suspend the sitting until 12.00 when we have the vote, but i note your point, mr[nbsp ]rübig. written statements (rule 149)
madam president, as the votes are really close, could i respectfully ask that when there is a call for a check, it is respected. (applause)
madam president, i have a very simple solution, in view of all the confusion: why do you not have a roll-call on every single vote? that would solve the problem immediately. (applause)
in writing. - ukip’s position is against: as so often, the alignment of statistics is the first step in a process of eu sectorial capture.
in writing. - i supported this report on statistics on goods transported by inland waterways because the welsh economy benefits from the free movement of goods within the eu. it is essential that this is managed with good and accurate data.
in writing. - whilst this report is largely technical, it does extend the scope to data on passengers. i welcome this and voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it seeks to gain further statistics for inland waterways in order to enhance their role within the transport sector.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against, as this means further harmonisation and centralisation of control over economic and budgetary policies of member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report that sets out the rules governing the way statistical data that is relevant for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure is provided by member states because, as the economic crisis continues to hit many of my constituents in wales, it is only right that accurate statistics are gathered in order to correct imbalances more quickly and easily. this will go some way to preventing a future crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will improve the economic governance of the union and, further, will set out a common and reliable procedure in the provision of relevant statistical data for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure.
in writing. - in view of the nsa scandal and current ttip negotiations, i abstained on this vote to give consent to the renewal of the eu-us agreement. i have received many emails from constituents concerned about the ttip negotiations and support a freeze on negotiations.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. whilst i recognise the importance of technological cooperation between the eu and the us i consider that this house still requires further information in relation to american spying on the eu. we should not proceed as if nothing has happened.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i encourage the continuing existence and improvement in relations between the usa and the eu, namely here in the field of scientific and technological cooperation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is vital that the eu implements the nagoya protocol in order to protect europe's biodiversity. this is important to wales which has a commitment to sustainable development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i believe in the principles of the nagoya protocol – the ‘fair and equitable’ sharing of benefits from the use of genetic resources between a private firm or research institute and the country of origin, which will in turn help developing countries gain a larger stake in conserving their biodiversity.
in writing. - i voted against the daerden report on the european globalisation adjustment fund for comunidad valenciana textiles. i am against the egf on principle because it is an attempt by the eu to make itself relevant by the use of a fund which is not sufficiently controlled and is certainly not adequate for its supposed aim. it is a waste of taxpayers’ money.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the provision of additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns, including the 560 workers who have been made redundant in the textiles industry in comunidad valencia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to reject the commission proposal on plant reproductive material. i have had many constituents from wales contact me on this matter, as the proposal would be harmful for ordinary gardeners and small businesses as well as for biodiversity.
in writing. - this commission proposal and the one-size-fits-all attitude upon which it was based have serious flaws. i am pleased that parliament has voted to reject it and the commission must now withdraw the proposal and go back to the drawing board.
in writing. - i am disappointed that parliament did not deal with concerns raised about the prm proposal. ornamental growers, gardeners, small seed companies and the seeds industry itself had a number of concerns over the commission’s proposal. i tabled 86 amendments and there were over 1[nbsp ]400 amendments in total. it is disappointing that we did not use our powers to discuss and amend the legislation, but rather missed the opportunity to address the concerns raised and voted to reject the commission proposal. it is particularly frustrating that parliament voted to close the first reading, which will essentially mean that we go forward to a second reading without a negotiating position.
in writing. - this report is part of a package aimed at updating and simplifying the law on controls in the agri-food chain. the proposed regulation on plant reproductive material was intended to set rules to ensure the identity and quality of marketed plant products. however, home gardeners and small breeders have rightly raised a number of issues, pointing out that the proposal does not take account of the differing needs of home gardeners and large-scale farmers and would lead to less choice for gardeners. in addition, the proposal lacks clarity in many areas, while the rules could potentially prevent new plant varieties being introduced onto the market and represent a financial burden for smaller breeders, both of which could lead to a reduction in the variety of species available. labour meps were sympathetic to these objections and voted to reject this report on the basis that a ‘one-size-fits-allʼ approach is not appropriate and the proposed law would not provide the necessary protection for agri-biodiversity. the late publication of the report has also not left adequate time for proper scrutiny in this mandate and we are calling for the commission to come forward with a re-drafted proposal in the next mandate.
in writing. - i voted against this report given the current economic difficulties within the eu. my constituents in wales believe that the eu should lead by example and show solidarity to their own public workers that have endured pay freezes and harsher working conditions as a result of the crisis.
in writing. - i voted against this report given the current economic difficulties within the eu. my constituents in wales believe that the eu should lead by example and show solidarity to their own public workers who have endured pay freezes and harsher working conditions as a result of the crisis.
in writing. - i fully support moves which are intended to pave the way for serbia to join the eu when it is ready. the eu has, throughout its evolution, sought to expand its membership and at no time has it sought to reduce the size of the internal market. it is difficult to imagine this stance changing in the future and any suggestions to the contrary simply ignore the political reality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it makes the necessary changes to bring the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement in line with the new procedure of implementing and delegated acts.
in writing. - i supported this technical report, which makes changes to the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement to bring it into line with trade legislation under the lisbon treaty. this means that the agreement is now in line with the new procedure of implementing and delegated acts.
madam president, suppose there were no regulation of financial services at all. imagine that it was left entirely to the discretion of the consumer. actually, we do not need to imagine. we only have to go back a hundred or so years, and that is what happened. you will find advertisements with banks boasting about what their assets were and allowing consumers to make a rational calculation: do i take a higher risk for higher return? if people are encouraged to think that somebody else is on top of the risk for them, you infantilise them. that is what happens now: you get e-mails with hundreds of pages of documents – which nobody reads – whenever you act as a private investor, but which gives you the idea, the false impression that someone is looking after the risk for you. there is an experiment that took place recently in part of the rocky mountains where they took all the warning signs off the mountain roads. do you know what happened? accidents became less common, because people knew that they were on their own. they were not being lulled by the false sense that safety was somebody else’s responsibility. if you give people more responsibility, they will behave more responsibly.
madam president, since the collapse of the banks, the run on northern rock more than six years ago and the collapse of lehmann brothers, the eu has responded by building a whole new european supervisory architecture consisting of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, the european securities and market authority, the european banking authority and the european systemic risk board. we are told that this whole supervisory architecture will solve the problem or ensure that there is no repeat of the crisis. but all it does is reinforce the perception that we have not really tackled the fundamental causes of the crisis. we need to make sure that there are no longer any taxpayer-funded bail-outs of failing banks and that banks are allowed to fail if they get into trouble. we need to make sure that directors are liable for that failure, so that they can enjoy the rewards of good performance but pay the costs of failure. we need to reform accounting standards to make sure that, once again, the accounts are an accurate reflection of a bank’s health and that they make sufficient provision for potential losses and do not book their profits up front. if we can do that, there is no need for these supervisory authorities.
in writing. - i voted against this report that amends the directives on the prudential requirements for insurers and the publication requirements for companies issuing securities. i believe it goes too far in the direction of business interests at the expense of policy holders. this is against the interests of my constituents in wales.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i favour greater powers for eiopa and esma in various fields including supervision and the production of technical data, simultaneously on a national and european level.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. this is ostensibly to prevent the use of the financial system for terrorist financing and money laundering, but in reality is just another way of collecting information on individuals, restricting privacy and adding costs to business.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i want to achieve full transparency of payments sources, funds deposits and transfers in order to counter terrorism and money laundering both within and outwith the eu.
madam president, in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the headlines naturally focus on the more sensational and obvious aspects of operations, such as police dawn raids and arrests. but one of the less-publicised and less-known aspects of prevention is the issue of finding ways to prevent the global financing of terrorism through the financial markets. we need only to look at the relationship between the diminishing activities of al shabaab in somalia and the crackdown against piracy for an example of this. this report introduces a number of measures that will bring greater transparency to the financial system, particularly in terms of establishing a central public register of beneficial owners, particularly in offshore jurisdictions. i also welcome the report’s focus on balancing the need to account for cross-border transactions, with the wider considerations of data protection and privacy also being taken into account. money laundering and the financing of terrorist activity can be linked, unfortunately, and we can only successfully counteract the latter by addressing the former. this report makes good progress in this regard, and i am pleased to say i voted in favour of it.
madam president, i was in the committee on justice and home affairs when i heard the news of the twin towers bombing. our chairman then was graham watson, now of course the leader of the liberals. he made a tasteless, but rather prescient, comment. he said that osama bin laden had done more for european integration than anyone since jacques delors. sadly, it was not to be his last ill-judged comment along these lines – but actually he was on to something. since that day, there has been a torrent of legislation which has been brought forward in the name of security or counter-terrorism, but which in fact owed much more to the long-held plans of financial integration. we have now had immense increases in state power, police power, surveillance and control of movements of capital, but i struggle to think of a single directive or regulation that has made less likely a future terrorist attack. what it has done was, of course, what it was intended to do right from the beginning, which was to have an integrated model of finance at european level as a prop to political integration.
in writing. - as a conservative mep, i strongly support the need for new robust anti-money laundering rules. the fight against cross-border organised crime and the funding of terrorism requires international efforts and european cooperation, in order to protect our economy and investigate and prosecute the perpetrators of serious crime. whilst there is much in this report which i support, at this time i believe that greater clarity on the protection of beneficial ownership and trusts is required in order to be fully compatible with the uk’s existing legal arrangements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as illicit capital flows – which are not limited to money laundering and financing terrorism, but also include tax evasion – generate huge costs to state finances as well as facilitating crime. the report addresses beneficial ownership, implementation and supervision and data protection. this is in the interests of my constituents in wales.
in writing. - as a conservative mep, i strongly support the need for new robust anti-money laundering rules. the fight against cross-border organised crime and the funding of terrorism requires international efforts and european cooperation, in order to protect our economy and investigate and prosecute the perpetrators of serious crime. whilst there is much in this report which i support, at this time i believe that greater clarity on the protection of beneficial ownership and trusts is required in order to be fully compatible with the uk's existing legal arrangements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as this will improve the clarity and transparency of the rules on customer due diligence, and will help the fight against the increasing money laundering and terrorist financing in europe.
in writing. - curbing tax evasion and raising awareness of money laundering is vital, and the anti-money laundering directive aims to create public registers in all eu countries, giving details of the beneficial owners of companies, foundations and trusts. the rules also call for banks and other financial institutions to be vigilant about transactions made by clients and to raise awareness among those people who are at a higher-than-usual risk of corruption due to the political positions they hold.
in writing. - money laundering has an estimated turnover of eur[nbsp ]600bn and is connected with terrorism, drug and human trafficking; it also costs eu economies in lost tax revenue every year. as an international business, money laundering and the criminals involved operate across borders, so only coordinated action at eu level can be really effective at tackling the problem. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which will update eu law on money laundering to take account of evolving threats. the report includes enhanced transparency measures, such as a public register of company owners to make it harder for criminals to hide illicit money behind obscure, corporate structures. the scope of existing legislation will also be extended to include the gambling industry and the report includes strengthened protection for whistle blowers.
madam president, i have spoken before about the way in which the eib prejudices the market. it does not give soft loans to struggling small firms operating within tight profit margins; it intervenes semi-politically. the largest beneficiary of eib soft loans in the uk, for a long time, was british airways, which is hardly a small company but was at the time very involved in supporting the campaign to join the euro. quite apart from the objections we have to the eib, this is an outrageous example of where we do not allow losses; where, by standing behind organisations that make loans and take risks, we end up encouraging people to comport themselves in the expectation of bail-outs, so that the profit is theirs but the losses are socialised. when people start acting on the assumption that there is a safety net, we get what we had when the financial crisis came five years ago. we should be working towards a situation where loans can go bad and banks can collapse and it is not a problem, and where there is a plurality of competing providers, rather than trying to create a system of consolidated capital where failure is impossible, because failure is necessary to capitalism, just as sin is necessary to religion.
in writing. - ukip’s position was to vote against this expenditure of taxpayers’ money when so many people are in financial difficulty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because in gaining the type of guarantee mentioned therein, the european investment bank will now be able to further support eu external action in its relations on an international scale.
in writing. - i supported today’s final agreement, which provides an eu budgetary guarantee to support eib external financing for projects outside the european union. i am pleased that the agreement, which runs from 2014 until 2020, will maintain the same amount of funding as the previous programme. i welcome calls from the rapporteur to attach additional reporting requirements so that it is clear who the final beneficiary of eib financing is. furthermore, i welcome greater focus on climate change mitigation and adaptation and the phasing-out of environmentally harmful subsidies. finally, i wholeheartedly support the eib’s ‘zero tolerance’ policy when it comes to money laundering, tax fraud, corruption and financing of terrorism.
in writing. - as rapporteur for the fisheries committee on this issue, i welcome the opportunity to finally vote upon it in plenary. today’s vote is an important step in terms of the eu fulfilling its international obligations and will result in greater recognition of the rights of indigenous peoples.
in writing. - there have been significant improvements to this package since its launch, and while i continue to have limited concerns regarding the impact of the proposals on some tractors, i welcome these changes. in my constituency, northern ireland, there are many farmers who in the course of tending livestock, and by the very nature of where their farms are located, are required to operate on public roads. by no fault of their own, these farmers stood to be disadvantaged by regular testing if they own tractors with a design speed exceeding 40[nbsp ]km/hr. i am now pleased that there is an exemption for these farmers. so too would caravan owners be affected. the decision to place trailer-caravans within the scope of mot testing threatened to deter people from partaking in what is a popular, low-cost and enjoyable hobby. these owners, like farmers, already maintain their vehicles and machinery to safe and effective standards. and i am therefore pleased that light trailers, including the trailer-caravan type, will not therefore be subject to this regulation.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal because the omission of motorcycles from this report weakens the agreement. i believe that, in the interests of my constituents in wales, we wanted stronger measures.
in writing. - as the conservative spokesman on transport, i am supportive of moves that ensure all vehicles travelling in the eu are safe, but wanted to ensure from the outset that we did not end up with a ‘one size fits all’ approach to vehicle testing that would be detrimental to the tried and tested system in place in the uk. i repeatedly raised concerns at key elements of this proposal that would have seen the 23[nbsp ]000 garages which incorporate mot testing facilities across the uk threatened with closure. the uk operates one of the most robust vehicle testing regimes in europe, and is acknowledged as having one of europe’s safest road networks. furthermore, i am glad to see that the testing of caravans, classic cars, motorcycles and agricultural tractors has rightly been left to the competence of member states. this would have been nothing more than a burdensome cost of people’s leisure time. following the outcome of negotiations between the parliament, member states and the commission, i am satisfied that the contentious issues that i have raised have been addressed.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against: this is a clear example of a harmonisation process which in fact centralises and extends eu control and interference.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal as a framework for vehicle registration and authorisation for the use of vehicles on roads. it includes requirements guaranteeing an optimal level of safety and environmental standards. this is to be welcomed, as the safety of road infrastructure, not least in wales, should be guaranteed
in writing. - ukip’s position is to vote against: this is a clear example of a harmonisation process which in fact centralises and extends eu control and interference.
in writing. - in my constituency, northern ireland, the driver and vehicle agency (dva) already upholds high safety standards through vehicle testing, inspections and registration, and spot checks are, of course, central to this. these changes would make some tractors with a maximum speed of over 40 km/h eligible for roadside inspections. in my own constituency, northern ireland, this would place additional operational burdens upon farmers, who presently maintain their machinery to high roadworthiness standards. i am therefore pleased that this text clarifies that only those tractors of this type used in commercial haulage purposes will be subject to inspections. i am also pleased that light trailers, including caravans, will not now come under the scope of inspections. this would have simply added further inconvenience to this low-cost and enjoyable hobby, in addition to the need to pass an mot test. this type of overregulation would have been totally unacceptable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on roadworthiness of commercial vehicles. it includes the harmonisation of standards for assessing deficiencies and the level of knowledge and skills of inspectors. this is to be welcomed, as the safety of the entire road infrastructure, not least in wales, should be guaranteed.
in writing. - as the conservative spokesman on transport and tourism, i believe this particular report contained many unfounded and unquantified claims that showed no clear benefits for road safety and which, if adopted, would have resulted in unacceptable implementation costs for uk road users. for instance, the risk rating system went well beyond the capability of member states, and would have proven to be a further expense to uk road users, at a time when businesses across the uk are working tirelessly to create jobs and achieve economic success. a key concern was the proposal to widen the scope of roadside inspections to include smaller vehicles; this would have detracted attention and resources away from heavy goods vehicles (hgvs). hgvs pose a far higher road-safety risk than smaller vehicles and it is appropriate that the decision will be left to the competence of member states, not the eu. following the outcome of extensive negotiations between parliament, member states and the commission, i believe that all of these issues have been satisfactorily addressed.
in writing. - i supported the roadworthiness package, which updates rules on roadworthiness tests, technical roadside inspections and vehicle registration. the updated rules will improve road safety and help to remove dangerous vehicles from the roads. i am pleased that we were successful in making sure that mot testing is exempt from the scope of the regulation and that historic and agricultural vehicles will also continue to be excluded from mot testing.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against: the rapporteur seeks to extend and thus ‘gold plate’ a commission proposal to simplify railway statistics collection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which aims to simplify the collection and transmission by member states of data on goods and passengers rail transport and rail traffic flows. this is important for wales.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i believe in simplifying data collection for rail transport and shortening times for disseminating passenger rail data.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as its central aim is the streamlining and simplification of invoicing procedures in public procurement. it is essential for the welsh economy that we increase the number of smes and wales-based companies bidding for contracts, and this will help achieve that. we could create thousands of new jobs.
in writing. - electronic invoicing is increasingly important to the public sector and i welcome these moves to provide for interoperability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because these new rules will greatly simplify the processing of e-invoices for both governments and businesses, including smes, and could generate savings for the eu of up to eur[nbsp ]2.3 billion.
in writing. - i supported this report which facilitates the interoperability of e-invoicing in public procurement and promotes a paper free administration. at the moment, there are many differences with e-invoicing in different member states and in order for it to work cross-border, there need to be some links between different systems across europe. i am pleased that new rules will simplify the processing of e-invoices for governments and businesses, especially smes and welcome indications that this scheme could save around €2.3 billion across the eu.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against: this is a fairly technical report to authorise funding for the 2016 farm structure survey and to add croatia.
in writing. - in my constituency, northern ireland, 99% of enterprises are small or medium-sized, and it is vital that these businesses are well-equipped with the resources and opportunity to compete within public procurement. as such, in conjunction with my colleagues, the ministers for finance and enterprise, i and the dup have been working to make the system less costly, faster and more advantageous for these enterprises. as part of this, i am encouraged by the report’s focus on encouraging better electronic and online services for those applying and administering invoices. this user-friendly digital environment stands to promote greater competition, both in domestic and foreign markets, by simplifying crucial processes. however, we must of course be mindful to ensure that any common standard for e-invoicing protects personal data, respects national procedures and only requires information that is completely necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the proposal will ensure financial support for member states to collect data on the structure of agricultural holdings, thereby enabling the continuation of support for monitoring and implementation of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against: this is a highly technical report to align certain regulations with current legal arrangements; as such it extends the life of the cap and gives further powers to the commission.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this proposal which aims to ban climate-unfriendly fluorinated gases in refrigerators and new air-conditioning appliances by 2022-2025. f-gases which pose a threat to human health can have a greenhouse warming effect up to 23,000 times greater than equivalent amounts of co2. this proposal aims to reduce such gases by 79% by 2030. banning f-gasses will also stimulate demands for natural refrigerants which will in return spur innovation to the immediate benefit of many innovative european firms.
in writing. - i abstained from this vote as it supports the end of subsidising fossil fuels. i believe this is a hypocritical approach, on the basis that the eu is still subsidising fossil fuels outside eu borders.
in writing. - i voted against the zuber report on equality between women and men in the european union because, yet again, european federalists are using the natural human instinct of fairness to extend the eu’s remit into areas where the european union has not been given competence. it is a classic example of mission creep by the eu.
in writing. - i do not agree with every single paragraph of this report. nevertheless, it deals with issue of great importance to citizens across the eu and i agree with its general thrust. i was therefore able to vote in favour.
in writing. - i abstained on the final vote as regards this report for a number of reasons. the large number of separate and split votes, conducted at speed, means there are points where the text is probably no longer coherent with itself. in order to be coherent with my own vote on the honeyball report at the last strasbourg session, i find it difficult to support the outcome here. while there is much to support in this report – the need for the council to break the deadlock on the maternity leave directive, an ongoing commitment to access to care for undocumented women, a repetition of the ep’s commitment to gender budgeting to name but three examples – there were other points which were rejected and mean we left out important issues. i find it difficult to believe that the epp voted against the right of women to be mothers and workers, or that the ep rejected the need to mainstream gender equality in our work with developing countries. i believe we need to rethink how we approach these reports in the face of determined, regressive attitudes coming from a section of the ep. women’s rights and progress can no longer be taken for granted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gender equality report. it is frustrating that, while we continue to strive towards a fairer, more equal society, gender inequality is clearly still a problem. i am strongly in favour of equal pay for men and women for equal work. i fully agree that we need to have more women on boards, but i am still to be convinced on the question of whether a quota system is the appropriate way to achieve greater gender balance in boardrooms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i believe in greater equality for women. this report will aid the progression of greater rights for female workers in the fields of employment, child care, women’s representation at high decision-making levels and violence against women.
in writing. - the ecr group is wholly committed to preserving and fostering a society where boys and girls, women and men enjoy equality of opportunity and equal treatment. within the zuber report, we particularly welcome a focus on combating violence against women and girls. we believe strongly in the principle of equal pay for equal work and we want to see equality of opportunity in areas of employment which have been traditionally dominated by men: business and enterprise, politics, science and technology. the ecr group is however unable to support the zuber report today. the report covers a range of issues, some of which are important, while others raise questions concerning the principle of subsidiarity. the ecr group believes that employment law – including wage levels, employment contracts, gender quotas and maternity, paternity and parental leave, family law, healthcare, education and school textbooks, housing and pension rights – is the clear responsibility of the member state and not the eu. we also oppose generalisations about the economic crisis. it is wrong to suggest that women are the only gender which has been affected by the crisis across europe. men have lost their jobs and are struggling, financially, too.
in writing. - ukip’s position is to vote against this report, which calls on the commission to submit legislative proposals that would further centralise regulation of financial services via european supervisory authorities by enhancing their investigative powers and resources, introducing direct supervision (bypassing national regulators), extending the scope of their authority (by stretching the meaning of ‘financial institution’) and granting them a role in consumer protection (and in so doing imposing binding and non-binding mediation).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it aims to make improvements to the european supervisory authorities by enhancing their mandate to take binding decisions, increasing their power to conduct stress tests on banks and, lastly, providing further investigative powers to the authorities. i believe these steps will protect the single market and improve coordination of supervisory policies between member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this annual report on access to documents. it looks at the developments of relevant case law, the exchange of documents between the eu institutions and transparency in legislative procedures. we must ensure that the eu is vigilant with regard to these matters. transparency is key to accountability, and accountability leads to good democracy. these are values that are of central importance to my constituents in wales.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i strongly believe in open governance and further transparency in governmental institutions. i agree that public access to documents is a fundamental right, and through this report clear rules will be laid out for classification of documents at an eu level.
in writing. - making sure that access to public documents is possible is a fundamental right. this report supports proposals from the european commission to bring forward a proposal laying down clear rules and criteria for classification documents at eu level. labour meps have pushed for european institutions to be more transparent when it comes to which documents are made public and to which institutions should always grant access, expect in exceptional circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am aware of the important role the committee on petitions plays regarding the development of democratic principles. this is one step forward towards increased participation of citizens in the eu decision-making process and the enhancement of transparency and accountability in order to ensure full respect for eu law.
in writing. - i voted against this own-initiative report on horticulture because it seeks to water down eu pesticides approval laws and challenge the ban on neonicotinoids. my constituents in wales are very engaged in this debate and i voted to reflect their views.
in writing. - i support this report analysing strategies for growth in the horticulture. many great challenges face the sector, none more so than the decreasing consumption of fruit and vegetables across europe. any measures to improve production, increase innovation and boost the export of horticultural products are to be welcomed. i also welcome the northern ireland department of agriculture’s ‘going for growth’ strategy, launched in may 2013. the strategy makes a number of recommendations in relation to the local horticulture industry, including a review into how research for arable crops and production horticulture is prioritised and funded. the proposed business investment scheme is another good initiative aimed at promoting innovative technologies, so it is a shame that it will have to rise above politicking over pillar ii payments. the report makes reference to producer organisations (po), and this is an area where we can certainly improve in northern ireland, with only one successful po in the mushroom sector to date. i would urge local authorities to examine the recommendations of the report into how we can make better use of pos. there remains more to be done to boost the horticulture sector, i hope this report represents the beginning of this work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which assesses the eu’s policy against torture worldwide and makes a number of policy recommendations for the future. i am contacted by my constituents on a regular basis on human rights and often about individual cases of abuse.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which deals with important issues. whilst much of the report is aimed at situations taking place outwith the eu, it is equally important that we remember events which take place within our borders. there is evidence that a number of scottish airports have been used by the cia for rendition flights, contrary to the common law of scotland. this abuse by uk powers is wholly unacceptable.
in writing. - conservatives are the strongest supporters of the fight against torture. the practice of torture is unacceptable, and strong international commitments for its eradication are needed. that is why conservatives supported this report. however, conservative meps also believe that the death penalty, for the most serious of crimes, is a matter of individual conscience, and that the budgetary priorities and security arrangement of member states are a member state competence, as are matters relating to asylum and immigration.
in writing. - i supported this resolution which highlights the individual situations in a number of countries including syria, egypt, sri lanka, north korea and sudan. i fully agree with remarks in the resolution to address issues such as the death penalty, torture, lgbti rights and children’s rights. we need to make sure that the eu is seen as a global player. this report sets out a clear position on behalf of the s&d group that human rights issues are vitally important. furthermore, i support continuing adequate funding for the office of the high commissioner for human rights and funding to keep ohchr offices open.
in writing. - the eradication of torture in the world is of paramount importance. where human rights are seen to be violated we must work together to ensure those responsible are brought to justice. this report is ‘own initiative’, meaning it is not legislatively binding. i voted for this report because i welcome the report’s efforts to ensure that the more vulnerable people within society are not left behind, for example women and children. although the report suggested that the death penalty and being on death row constituted torture (a legitimate form of punishment in countries like the united states) and although it called for extra funding for rehabilitation centres across europe, i commend the report’s efforts to tackle the abhorrent practice of torture. national law agencies within the eu already have mechanisms in place to deal with this issue and if we want to eradicate it we must do so in the field. therefore, i question the effectiveness of european-based rehabilitation centres. in my opinion on the eradication of torture (january 2014), i called for dialogue with third countries, the strong condemnation of all types of violence and criminalisation of fgm. i welcome this new report and voted in favour.
in writing. - i share the committee’s aim of highlighting the institutionalised discrimination of women and violation of basic fundamental rights in saudi arabia. sadly, saudi arabia is at number 6 on the open doors world watch list 2014, which records the top 50 countries where it is most difficult to be a christian. there remains no provision for religious freedom, no provision for public worship or tolerance in the workplace for those of a christian faith. as this report rightly stresses, our approach to building relationships with saudi arabia must have at its core a demand for greater respect for these fundamental rights. the freedoms of expression and speech should be a precondition. the committee also pinpoints the need for the saudi arabian authorities to get to grip with terrorism linked to islamic extremism and al-qaeda. it also rightly highlights the need to better protect women in that country, and to support their entry into education and the labour market. these are aspects that we as meps must keep at the heart of our attitude to saudi arabia, in order to encourage a society of tolerance both for religious minorities and women.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which calls for political reform in saudi arabia in areas such as democracy, human rights and the treatment of women. on behalf of my constituents i am pleased that these important issues are recognised.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i think it is a real achievement for the european parliament to adopt its position on the regulation before the end of the mandate. this takes us one step closer to securing reform to guarantee one set of substantive privacy rights across europe. i thank jan[nbsp ]albrecht, the rapporteur, for his very energetic steering of our work. we had a few battles, but i think that we all stayed friends. i am sorry that my alde colleague, alex alvaro, cannot be here as he is unwell, but i – as shadow to the shadow rapporteur – built on his work and that of his staff. as liberals, we sought to implement our belief that it is possible to have a synthesis of high data protection standards and support for innovation and jobs in the digital economy. our aim throughout was to secure a text which is balanced, giving citizens greater control over how their data is used, and by whom, whilst facilitating technological advances, because smart companies know that their business will only prosper on the basis of trust. it will be essential to have a robust compliance regime and strict enforcement, as otherwise those companies that do play by the rules will lose out. i am pleased that my colleague simon hughes, who is the uk justice minister, has announced that the uk government is reviewing the sanctions for breach of privacy under the existing directive. i am glad that we put back the so-called anti-pfizer clause to protect our citizens against court orders in third countries, and i am still rather shocked that the commission dropped this provision from its published draft. i mentioned trust, and a challenge dear to my heart is to safeguard privacy for health data whilst facilitating valuable research. however, that requires the public to have confidence in what is happening; foreseeability; belief that there are strong safeguards in place; and strict sanctions. i regret the fiasco of the uk implementation of a project called ‘care data’ which has had to be delayed because it has very poor management which is losing citizens’ trust in this area.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, data is the life blood of modern society. it powers every new piece of technology, every innovation. it powers manufacturing, social media and what we buy online. our history, opinions and personal information are increasingly shared, exchanged and profited from. however, with progress and profits must come protection. businesses, consumers and the individual are currently contending with 28 different legal regimes, different systems and different mechanisms for appeal and redress. a new era of technology requires a new era of data protection law. we can now take a step forward in the completion of the single market and the digital economy and help attract investment into the eu. but we must apply common sense. we cannot place the same level of administrative burdens on local, small businesses as on multinational companies which deal with massive amounts of personal information. we do not want to deter those scientists and researchers who are finding new cures for terrible diseases and ailments every day. we must not scare off foreign investment in the eu by setting impossible standards. however, i do not agree with some of the proposals which the european commission has made, although i believe the final compromise between political groups has signalled the start of finding a proportionate and workable way forward, and i commend the general approach of this house.
madam president, in the next debate on the mass surveillance of citizens, one of the key recommendations is to call on the council to accelerate its work on implementing this excellent work by jan albrecht and dimitrios droutsas. the reason we make this a central observation is that we spent months looking around the world at anyone who had tried to do what these rapporteurs have done. i think mrs reding put it very well: members in this house have created one set of international privacy rights. they have created the space for the digital economy to grow. this is an extraordinary achievement, which we have put into context – and that will be seen in the later debate. but we also need to create a package approach here, because it is not just about the private sector but about the judicial and police authorities as well. it is about all our citizens and the way they interact with data. so we must support both parts of this, the directive and the regulation in the package; we must support both our rapporteurs tomorrow.
madam president, of course we need to protect an individual’s data, but we will also all suffer if overly-restrictive data laws halt the progress of research, especially medical research. over 50 patient organisations and medical research charities have written to meps about their concerns. they are warning us that the committee’s changes to this new law will make many health research projects at worst illegal and at best unworkable, and particularly so for large-scale projects. for example, the million women study, which is looking at breast cancer and its relationship with hrt. it is this sort of project which they say would be unworkable with the specific consent regime and narrow exemption proposed by the committee. and surely all of us, including ms in[nbsp ]’t veld, might recognise the need for further work on diseases like cancer, alzheimer’s and diabetes. many of the committee’s changes in other parts of the legislation are moving in a helpful direction, but it is vital that the changes to articles[nbsp ]81 and 83 are reconsidered and expert advice is taken. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – i would ask vicky ford whether she is making representations to her political colleague, the health secretary in the uk, jeremy hunt, about the appallingly shambolic handling of the so-called care.data project by nhs england, whereby leaflets were distributed like junk mail and not addressed, telling people they could opt out from having their doctor’s records uploaded onto a centralised database, with no prescribed format for how to do that. this has completely undermined trust and is the main threat to patient confidence in medical research. i hope she is telling her party colleague how he has shot medical research in the foot.
blue-card answer. – you know it is so good when both parts of the coalition work together to correct wrongs. for your information, i spent all day on friday with the minister responsible for research, getting this bit of regulation right so that there is a balance between protecting data but also allowing all of us to benefit from world-leading science that needs to look at how patients and people in general are affected. that is a really important balance. and yes, our side of the coalition is working on correcting that wrong and getting it right.
rapporteur. - madam president, when we began this inquiry six months ago into the revelations of edward snowden and the campaign of the guardian newspaper, it was an extremely difficult and sensitive and ambitious inquiry to conduct. the precedent we had was the echelon inquiry and the cia renditions inquiry, and we had a huge task on our hands. but what was important about the inquiry was that it was different, and the narrative was different from any inquiry undertaken by any member state because of what we have just heard. and what we have just heard is that the european union is unique, and this house is unique in that we were a mature parliament which was already legislating on the data protection regulation and the directive. so we were a parliament that was already dealing with one set of privacy rights internationally and with the digital economy. so while the snowden revelations were raging, we in this house were already equipped to deal with privacy rights and the whole area of data protection law. what my colleagues and i have tried to do in this inquiry, given that we only had six months and that we had an extraordinary set of sensitive issues to deal with, was to take edward snowden’s revelations (and he has given evidence in the last few days) – all of the sensitivities around the spying allegations and espionage, and the many stories in the press – and to ensure that from that situation we worked together across the political groups to have the most in-depth inquiry, i believe, anywhere in the world. in six months we ensured that we went to washington and that we had accountability here amongst whistleblowers, parliamentary scrutiny bodies, intelligence bodies, and a whole range of players and actors here in brussels and strasbourg. we ensured at the end of that process that, together with my shadows – and i want to mention all of them: mr[nbsp ]voss, ms in[nbsp ]‘t veld, ms[nbsp ]ernst, mr[nbsp ]albrecht, mr[nbsp ]kirkhope – and our colleagues from the committee on foreign affairs, all of us who worked tirelessly over those many hours to ensure that, at the end of that process of the snowden revelations and many hours of interviews, we looked into what intelligence services were doing. but we also understood that we had to come up with a digital bill of rights. it is a testament to this report that in many parts of the member states across the european union, in many political parties and in many member states, the issue of the digital bill of rights and a digital habeus corpus is being spoken of. they are in fact referring to our report, and in doing so they are referring to what we learned in the echelon report, which was that we can carry out an in-depth inquiry in this house but that we must make something of it and we must make something lasting of it. there is so much expertise and commitment here in the european union on issues of privacy and fundamental rights – but how do we make it last? so what we have created from the edward snowden allegations, the witnesses and the interviews – jim sensenbrenner the congressman, who created the patriot act but told us now that we need to do something about what the nsa is saying, and president obama, who told us that on the one hand he wants to protect us citizens but foreshadowed what is happening to foreign persons – in all of that we had to create this digital bill of rights or digital habeus corpus. so we created a number of actions. first of all, to conclude the eu-us umbrella agreement guaranteeing the fundamental rights of citizens to privacy and data protection; to suspend safe harbour until a full review has been conducted and current loopholes are remedied; to ensure that we suspend tftp until the umbrella agreement and negotiations have been concluded and a thorough investigation has been concluded on the basis of an eu analysis; to evaluate any agreement mechanism or exchange with third countries involving personal data in order to ensure that the right to privacy and to the protection of personal data is not violated due to surveillance activities and to take the necessary follow-up actions. i will finish in just 30 seconds. to protect the rule of law and fundamental rights of eu citizens, including threats to freedom of the press, the right of the public to receive impartial information and professional confidentiality, including lawyer/client relations as well as ensuring enhanced protection for whistle-blowers. the snowden revelations gave us a chance to react to those revelations. tomorrow, in a unified way, i hope we will turn those reactions into the first stage of a digital bill of rights. let us have a unified vote tomorrow to ensure we have turned this into something positive and lasting into the next mandate of this parliament, a data protection bill of rights that we can all be proud of.
having heard the council and commission, can i just make a very brief observation? mr kourkoulas, in your remarks i think i heard you make some adverse comment about activities on the other side of ‘the channel’. i think you meant to say on the other side of ‘the atlantic’. one might refer to the united kingdom and the other to the united states: close allies but not always identical in this regard. perhaps you would like to check the record and have your staff adjust it if i am right. the united kingdom is, of course, subject to the treaty of rome and its successor treaties, like it or not. and i do like it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, having heard ms[nbsp ]in ’t veld’s very strong advice, i think that my group will be following it and voting against this report. thank you very much indeed, sophie, for that. i believe that if the work of this parliament is to be regarded in a credible manner, then the nature of any inquiry and the recommendations which it makes also have to be credible. unfortunately, the opportunities to make sensible and valuable recommendations to member states in areas that fall within the eu’s competence were sadly missed. instead, we have seen a report that makes some of the most irresponsible recommendations and threats i have ever seen as a member of this parliament. for too long, some factions of the house have felt that the most effective way of dealing with any situation is an irrational show of strength, rather than by wielding a more productive hand of diplomacy. i and my group will not support any report which calls for the suspension of important international anti-terror agreements and the holding to ransom of vital trade negotiations affecting all our citizens. it is not just the united states whom you punish and put at risk, but our own people in europe too. of course, i fully support the intelligence community being democratically and independently accountable and the highest data protection standards being put in place. but unfortunately, if sensible solutions were what this house was seeking in this report, we have fallen wide of the mark. i therefore, sadly but inevitably, have to urge members to vote against it and find a better way forward. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i would not deem to challenge what the united states decides to do in relation to these matters; it is a great comfort to all of us that the united states appears to have in place all kinds of checks and balances in relation to the operation of its intelligence service, as we do in europe as well. my only problem is that the activities of our inquiry have, if anything, set back the cause of security and protection for our citizens. they have actually given credit to individuals who, even in the most generous terms, might be regarded as people with less than honourable intentions. it has also displayed our attitude towards the russian authorities – the fact that moscow is involved in this at a time when ukraine is under such pressure, which gives all the wrong messages.
mr president, mr kirkhope’s stance against this report shows why the coalition government in london has been unable to do what president obama has done – to instigate a review of the surveillance practices, legal framework and oversight of the intelligence agencies, and in particular gchq. i am therefore delighted that at least the smaller party in the coalition, the liberal democrats, is acting. my party leader, the deputy prime minister, nick clegg, has instigated an independent review. i would direct you to the website of the prestigious royal united services institute for his speech and the terms of reference. my party also passed a resolution for a digital bill of rights at our congress last weekend, including a demand to end the bulk collection of data. so, even if we cannot get the whole government acting, we are advancing a review from the deputy prime minister. i support this report; i just have a few quibbles about it. i am not terribly fond of the goal of eu independence in the it sector, which is called for in paragraphs 97 and 131. i absolutely want investment to enhance the capacity of europe in it, but in a global world, what i want is for us to get a new a global deal on protecting our privacy. i think it reeks too much of protectionism and autarchy, and i am also not sure what a european cloud achieves. ditto the same remarks: i want european competence and for us to keep data in europe if possible, but i am a bit unsure about the european cloud.
mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the work done on this. we have heard mentioned today the checks and balances which are supposed to be there in terms of oversight of security services. it has become clear yet again, for those of us who remember echelon, that these are not operational or are being ignored, or that they certainly need changing, to move away from deference to security agencies and the light-touch approach. we have laws in place to limit general phishing expeditions, and we know that there are real questions about the efficiency of mass information. but the relevant checks and balances are clearly not operating, and we have governments making new powers out of vague laws. this working-round: what is on-shore, what is offshore, what is foreign? ‘ if i hand you this bit of information and you hand me that about our respective citizens, well, we are legally ok, but we are not actually within the spirit of the law. another question that is raised here is the inclusion of private companies acting within the state security services. what is the protection for the workers, and what are the rules under which they operate? finally, i really think that if we are simply looking at a nice diplomatic, cosy chat with the united states as a result of this, it makes you wonder what has to happen before we actually take some definitive action.
blue-card answer to christian engström. – what i want to achieve by working with our colleagues in the united states – with congress, civil society, aclu and all the other people who are batting for reform in the us – is for us to pursue reform in europe and reform in the us. unfortunately, we cannot guarantee that data in a european cloud is safe from interception and surveillance. a lot has been said about gchq in the uk, but i am afraid some of the continental security services are just as adept as the british ones. please do not complacently assume that they are not. so i do not think that we can assume that data is safe in any particular location. we have to work in europe, and in the united states and globally, to increase the safeguards. i think we should allow businesses and citizens to put their data where they choose to and not say that it must be located in one place, as long as we can work to improve the safeguards, working transatlantically in particular.
rapporteur. - i have two comments: one to parliament (to my colleagues), and one, i am afraid, to the council. the first to my parliamentary colleagues. i predicted at the beginning of this debate that there was going to be a high quality of debate, for a very simple reason: unlike all the member states, this parliament embarked on an inquiry having already started on the data protection regulation. the maturity and expertise in this parliament should not be doubted. and i say to my colleagues who are tabling amendments and who have worked so hard, who came to washington, who sat through hours of testimony and did their work, to my colleague who led the echelon inquiry: all of you are doing what none of the member states have done. this is the only international inquiry into mass surveillance – into the most sensitive issue, our intelligence services, which do a brilliant job, in defending us and in dealing with cybersecurity, the most sensitive issue – and we had to deal with that and deal with this issue of mass surveillance. there are no more sensitive fundamental rights issues than this, and here was the expertise in this parliament. i was not the full expert on this issue but i witnessed this – sometimes passionate – debate today, and i am very pleased to have heard what i have heard today. i would say to my colleagues in parliament that when we look at this digital bill of rights, which i believe is fit for the surveillance age, there will be aspects of it dealing with safe harbour, tftp and so on, which may not be exactly to the taste of everyone. but i would say to you: look at the fact that we have built a digital bill of rights, a digital habeas corpus, which is sellable to our citizens, because this is about fundamental rights. i would say to the council – and please forgive me for saying this – that the reason we need to have a unified voice tomorrow in the vote is because parliament is so unique. even congress in the united states has not had an inquiry. edward snowdon has not given evidence to congress. here we had our inquiry, and i would say to the council, which has been silent on all of these things, that tomorrow, if we vote in favour of this report and a digital bill of rights – a digital habeas corpus fit for our surveillance age – we will be sending a message to our citizens that this parliament is capable across the political groups of answering their concerns in a comprehsive and balanced way.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the eu intends to create a public prosecutor’s office with vast legal powers across the member states. the british government has already announced that it will opt out of the public prosecutor scheme. however, the government has already announced that it intends to permanently opt in to the 35 eu police and criminal justice measures. as i said here last month, those 35 measures are the most important and the most dangerous to our traditional freedoms and liberties. as far as the united kingdom is concerned, the government’s decision to opt out of the public prosecutor’s office is both worthless and dishonest. the prosecutorʼs office will have at their disposal the use of all the existing legal instruments, such as the european arrest warrant, and the new ones, such as the european investigation order. although the prosecutorʼs office will have no direct authority in the uk, it will have de facto power by means of the use of these legal instruments. the tory-led coalition government knows it cannot defend accepting the public prosecutor’s office in the uk, so it seeks to achieve the same thing by the back door. there is still time for the government to reverse its decision and opt out of the 35 measures. but to fully protect ourselves, we have to leave the european union. to do that, vote ukip on 22[nbsp ]may.
madam president, the main justification put forward for the creation of a european public prosecutors office has been the scale of fraud against the eu budget. indeed, some of the figures discussed are quite astonishing, with last year’s eu audit acknowledging that eur[nbsp ]404 million had been lost to fraud. other reports state that the actual amount was more likely to be twelve times that figure. is the european public prosecutor’s office the best way to tackle fraud? i think that is the question you have to answer. my constituency, where i come from, perhaps knows more than most that where policing and justice powers reside remains a very sensitive issue. after many years of tumultuous changes, public and political confidence in policing in northern ireland had been built to devolve powers to the local level. i had my reservations then, and i think in recent months we have seen how delicate and fragile this confidence can be. the lesson i take from my own constituency is that, where concerns exist, they should be listened to. i would also like to say that a zero-tolerance approach to fraud against the eu’s budget is needed. but disregarding the concerns of member states in establishing new and more costly bodies is not necessarily the solution, in my opinion.
blue-card question. – thank you for taking the question. mr lambsdorff, you mentioned the word ‘freedoms’ in your speech. now, should turkey obtain freedom of movement, what is your careful estimate of the number of turkish citizens who will emigrate from turkey to northern europe, in particular to germany and the uk? and to help you with your response, it is estimated that the population of turkey in 2025 will be 90 million.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, with municipal elections at the end of this month and presidential elections later this year, and given the crises all around the region, obviously this is a crucial year for turkey, and indeed for turkey’s relationship with the european union. we have to ask what signals we want to send. can i say, first of all, that many of us want to see major changes in the nature of the european union itself. in particular, we want to get away from the obsession with political integration. instead, our citizens want to focus on economic growth and improved international competitiveness. they are concerned about free movement as an unqualified right, and in these dangerous and unstable times they prefer the guarantee of nato, rather than the theatricals of eu defence policy. it is in this context that we should view our relationship with turkey. it is very much in our interest to do all we can to ensure that turkey continues as a stable, increasingly prosperous, free-market secular democracy, firmly oriented to the west, and a strong nato ally. how much easier for turkey, therefore, if the eu is a rather looser structure, focused on the single market. how much easier for our own citizens to accept turkey if the free movement issue is properly addressed, including with a long transition period. on this basis, let us send positive signals to turkey, open the energy chapter, give fresh vitality to negotiations, provide increased humanitarian assistance to the refugees in turkey’s border areas and encourage the talks on the reunification of cyprus, recognising that this is a genuinely two-sided issue which would be helped by substantive confidence-building measures from both greeks and turks. i hope that the greek presidency of the council could be more helpful in this particular area. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i think you are absolutely right. i think this is exactly the sort of formulation that people in our country would like to see. i do not like the concept of a two-speed europe, because faster sounds better than slower. what i would prefer is a multi-centric europe with overlapping circles of engagement, a more à la carte europe if you like, still with the united kingdom remaining at the centre – at the core – of the european union, but not engaging in many of these areas where you want increased integration. on that basis, it would be so much easier for turkey to become a member.
madam president, i join others tonight in mourning the death today of berkin elvan, who was simply on his way to buy a loaf of bread and was killed by a teargas canister fired by a police officer, dying today at 15 years old, after being in a continuous coma ever since. the canister was fired in connection with protests which amnesty international says represent, and i quote, ‘the continuation of a long-standing pattern of human rights abuses’. turkey today is a country where democracy is under strain from government interference, corruption and crackdowns on opposition organisations. more than 50 public sector workers were arrested last month, simply for their membership of the kesk public sector trade union. with the international trade union confederation, i condemn the misuse of anti-terrorist laws in this matter. i join others in sharing my deep concern about proposals to block access to youtube and facebook, which represent a serious threat to freedom of expression in the country. and most of all, the new law on the high council of judges and prosecutors is blurring the lines of separation of power, giving the government, according to human rights watch, greater control over the judiciary. turkey can do better.
madam president, the crisis of the turkish state grows, not least because of the extraordinary fissure which is now opening up between prime minister erdoğan and fethullah gülen. i think that, in order to be credible, this report of parliament must refer to that aspect of the crisis. mr füle speaks of serious concerns, but i have to say with great regret that i think these concerns are now so serious that turkey has ceased to fulfil sufficiently the copenhagen criteria. in the autumn, a new commission and parliament will be obliged to consider whether the protracted and frustrating accession process is plausible and to reflect whether some alternative form of membership – short of full membership – will actually be a more suitable arrangement for both turkey and the european union.
madam president, geographically, turkey is 97% in asia. however, the turkish government’s attitude to dissent places it 100% in the middle east. there is – like in cuba – a bill to curb internet freedom. the justice minister has powers to appoint and discipline judges and prosecutors. worst of all, currently there are 40 journalists in prison in turkey. the commissioner, in his arrogant self-absorption, said that he had spoken to the turks about this. they are clearly not paying any attention to the commissioner at all. in turkey there is a subjugation of the media, the judiciary and civil society that is almost without precedent in a seeming democracy. to put it simply, turkey does not subscribe to western values. turkey should be regarded as too big, too poor, too different and too authoritarian ever to become a member of the european union. it is totally depressing that the establishment uk political parties are all cheerleaders for turkey to join the eu. they – and this house – should think again. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and colleagues for their work on this report. i will not say that we need the single european sky now, because we needed it yesterday. i am really disappointed over the lack of political will from many of the member states in making this a reality. however, i am happy to say that the united kingdom government has been fully supportive of the single european sky. yes, that is the uk wanting more europe on this issue, despite some of our conservatives flirting with a uk exit from the eu. the fragmentation of european airspace is estimated to cost more than eur[nbsp ]3 billion a year. it is costing jobs and is unnecessarily increasing our co2 emissions. we need a more efficient european airspace to relieve congestion around airports and to meet our environmental challenges. a sustainable future for aviation in europe means that we have to make the right efforts now. however, i am really disappointed that national politics came to play a role in this proposal, which is supposed to be about european added value. is there any common sense whatsoever in excluding gibraltar airport from this legislation? this legislation is about our skies. it is about making air traffic controllers work better together. airport traffic controllers at gibraltar airport do not work alone; they liaise with their spanish air traffic controller colleagues in seville. so why do some colleagues want to impede this cooperation? why do they want to isolate gibraltar? the liberal democrats will vote tomorrow against all the amendments excluding gibraltar from this legislation. despite our deep commitment to the single european sky, we may find ourselves having to abstain on the final vote if gibraltar – which is part of the european union, remember – were to be excluded from eu law. i urge colleagues not to play into the hands of national politics but to support the commission’s proposal, which was to include gibraltar airport in this law. please vote against amendment[nbsp ]27.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, a little over 12 months ago my own-initiative report on the implementation of the single european sky was overwhelmingly supported by this parliament. it called on the commission and the member states to wake up and smell the coffee, and i therefore welcome the commission proposal. whilst being fully supportive of the aims of single sky and of mr sassoli’s technical report, we do have a few concerns with the marinescu report to date. first, we cannot support the merging of existing national aviation and national supervisory authorities into a single entity. it is unnecessary and would create serious legal issues in many member states such as the uk, where thousands of parliamentary acts during the last 40 years or so would need to be changed for no reason. second, we are not opposed to the performance review body becoming more independent, but this would need to be carefully considered and would require a full impact assessment. finally, we come to gibraltar, a british overseas territory which, as things stand, would be excluded. regrettably, some spanish colleagues have again acted in a most outrageous and provocative manner. the 2006 córdoba agreement was signed by all parties, and we are not prepared to stand back and see the integrity of single sky, and the benefits it would bring, irrevocably damaged. the disastrous effects of this childish behaviour risk stalling this complex project, which will create more than 300[nbsp ]000 highly-qualified jobs, maximise traffic flow, reduce ticket prices and – if the greens are listening – would also save 50 million tonnes of co2 and reduce fuel burn. i would ask this house to support our position tomorrow during the vote.
madam president, i am here today – and i think i am the only member in the chamber who represents gibraltar – to talk about that issue and that issue only. i make no claims to be an expert on the european single sky, but i find myself in the position where, for the second time in as many months, i have to stand here and ask questions about why members of this house are attempting to discriminate against my constituents in gibraltar. i do not know mr de grandes pascual, who has put forward amendments 22, 23, 26 and 27, but i would be delighted to have a conversation with him about why he thinks they are necessary. it is absolutely imperative that gibraltar is included in the single aviation market, in line with the treaties and with the 2006 córdoba agreement. for my constituents in gibraltar, it seems to be just one sorry mess after another: on-going border delays, spanish incursions into their waters and the votes on air passengers’ rights just a few weeks ago. when will it all end? i would urge all colleagues to vote against amendments 22, 23, 26 and 27, and in favour of amendment 144 by my colleague ms foster. vote against discrimination.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, with package holidays being increasingly booked online, this report updates the current legislation and hopes to create a more level playing field for all market players while, importantly, maintaining consumer choice as well as giving clarity to consumers on their protection. one of our most important tasks on this dossier has to be to find a clear and workable definition of ‘package’ and ‘linked travel arrangements’, and while there is still room for improvement here, we have clarified the payment processes and defined the data transferred in each type of contract. i was pleased that my request for a 24-hour time limit for booking both linked and package travel was adopted, as this deadline provides legal certainty for all consumers and businesses alike. in this regard i have tabled an amendment which i hope my colleagues will support in the vote tomorrow to make sure that consumers are advised about this deadline, so that they can make an informed decision about whether they wish to be covered by this legislation or not. i had major concerns regarding the right to withdraw and was very pleased that this was rejected by a majority of political groups. i am also sceptical about the insolvency protection provisions. i had also hoped to see a higher percentage than 25[nbsp ]% for a tourist service to be considered as a significant ancillary service, but i am sure these issues will be improved later in negotiations. but on the whole i think we have made a lot of improvements. i hope that this will lead to greater clarity for holidaymakers and businesses alike.
mr president, as we all know, the way we book our holidays has changed. technology has transformed the way the travel market operates, making the current rules almost obsolete. the overwhelming growth of internet sales reflects these changes but adds to the complexity of the leisure travel market. therefore, with this new reality in mind, i welcome this report and the reforms proposed by parliament, as they will ensure not only greater protection for consumers but also a higher degree of certainty for travel businesses regarding the extent of their potential liabilities. it is essential to update the current rules to reflect the modern reality, market and methods of trading. these reforms ensure increased clarity and flexibility for consumers, which, in turn, will also increase consumer confidence. it is vital that we close loopholes and make clear to travel companies their duty of care to holidaymakers and their own liability. i hope the member states will support these reforms and not use delaying tactics, which will only be detrimental to european citizens and businesses alike.
mr president, the travel and tourism industry has evolved and developed significantly since the package travel directive was first introduced more than 20 years ago, so it was clearly time for an update. as has been said, the use of the internet to book flights and holidays is more popular than ever and is increasing daily. but as with any revision to existing legislation, it is important that we avoid impinging on national responsibilities. many member states, including the uk, already have in place consumer protection bodies such as abta and atol, and it is important that they can still continue to work for the benefit of the consumer. while there is still room for improvement, i believe that this legislation is heading in the right direction. we need a well-balanced and pragmatic directive to protect consumers while not harming our tourism industry, which generates billions of pounds and euros across the member states.
blue-card question. – mr president, this is a question for anybody who has taken part in this debate. i want to know, please, how these f- gases, or even carbon dioxide, cause global warming. i am not interested in computer predictions. i am not interested in the 90[nbsp ]% of so-called scientists who say so. i taught physics and chemistry. i want to know what experiments have been done and what results have been achieved that show that carbon dioxide, fluorinated gases and the like do actually cause global warming. what is the mechanism? what do they actually do?
blue-card question. – he has not said what actually happens. how does co2 or fluorinated gas actually retain heat around the earth? the radiation i understand; you do not have to tell me. but what do these gases actually do that retains the heat around the world or stops the electromagnetic waves from progressing further? what do they do? how do they do it?
member of the commission. - mr president, free movement of workers is one of the cornerstones of the eu’s single market. it allows eu citizens to work in another member state under the same conditions as nationals of that member state. free movement of labour is good for the european economy. at a time when some member states are faced with high unemployment while others face labour shortages, worker mobility contributes to alleviating such gaps. article[nbsp ]45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides a clear legal framework for the free movement of workers and requires member states to admit workers from other member states to their labour markets without any discrimination. the 2011 regulation on freedom of movement for workers lists the rights that mobile eu workers and their family members should enjoy. in addition, there is abundant case-law from the court of justice which complements eu legislation. in spite of the clear legal framework, no one can deny that there is a gap between the legal rights and the reality on the ground. indeed, over the years, the commission has received numerous complaints about the application of eu law at national level. in addition, many mobile eu workers and their families encounter difficulties in finding information about their rights. when they are confronted with a specific problem, they often lack information and support on how to enforce their rights. for all these reasons the commission presented last year a proposal for better enforcement at national level of the rights conferred by eu law. this proposal focused on three main aspects. the first and main element of the proposal requires member states to designate one or more bodies at national level to provide support and assistance to eu mobile workers. secondly, the proposal requires member states to establish an existing or new body or bodies to provide information to eu mobile workers. and thirdly, the proposal provides measures to ensure the effective protection of mobile workersʼ rights so they can seek redress in the same way as nationals of the host member state. i am pleased that the council and parliament have come to an agreement, which i believe is well balanced. my thanks go to parliament and in particular to ms[nbsp ]bauer for her support and dedication.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, labour mobility gives citizens all across europe the opportunity to move and work abroad. it allows labour supply to satisfy labour demand and is integral to the success of the single market. this directive will facilitate the application of this fundamental freedom and will make everyone more aware of what their rights are, rather than the myths they have heard. it reinforces the idea that nationality should not be an obstacle to working in another member state. for example, a young person from birmingham in my constituency could decide to teach english in spain without worrying that she will have to jump through extra hoops to access employment. if she does, or if she finds a job where she is paid less than a national worker doing the same job, there will be a body in that member state ready to advise her, and she will have access to judicial redress if necessary. if a man from shropshire finds a job in austria to be with his austrian wife, he will not be prevented from accessing vocational training programmes offered to national workers because of his nationality. these are the opportunities which eu citizens must be able to access and which member states should uphold. i know that citizens have concerns about the effects of labour mobility on local services, and these concerns need to be heeded. we need to ensure that abuse by eu or national citizens is strongly dealt with at national level and that successful local integration, as well as efficient local services, are central to any action taken. we should be open, proactive and engaging when dealing with these local issues, rather than considering that pulling up the drawbridge and preventing our citizens and our young people from accessing these opportunities is the way forward.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am fortunate to represent london. for me, it is the greatest city in the world and the capital of the greatest country in the world. for many people it is probably the most diverse and open city in the world, which has welcomed people from all over the world for many centuries. but when i speak to my constituents about freedom of movement, they tell me that they welcome anyone who comes to our country and our city to contribute, to work and to contribute to society in a positive way, but they have two concerns. the first concern is over numbers, the impact on integration and the impact and strain on public services. the second is so-called benefit tourism, no matter how small or large the numbers. if we can address these very real concerns over these two issues – as my colleague, mr[nbsp ]bennion, said earlier on – then maybe there might be more support for the principle of freedom of movement for workers.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the commissioner for employment says that free movement of workers is a key principle of the single market, which is why, in 2004, only sweden, ireland and the uk exerted restrictions on 10 new member states. the then british home secretary jack straw now says that opening borders to eastern european immigration was a spectacular mistake, while mr[nbsp ]barroso recently admitted that the influx of eastern europeans was putting pressure on communities and leading to abuses in some cases. is realism now appearing? for croatia, 13 member states out of 27 will use restrictions, including france, germany, italy and the netherlands, while germany and austria will restrict posted workers. now, will croatians join bulgarians and romanians in having first call on jobs in preference to third-country nationals, as in the commissionʼs statement of april last year? but that is discrimination, and i raised this twice in the committee on employment and social affairs last year and did not receive an answer. i now require a commensurate answer as to why this discrimination continues.
mr president, the influx of workers into the uk must be controlled by the uk government. it is a simple matter of sovereignty. britain already has a housing shortage. hospitals and schools are not coping with the ever-growing immigrant population. britain must protect its own citizens who have paid their taxes and built the country. the massive influx of immigrants produces an oversupply, adding to the unemployment problem, reducing job availability and reducing pay for working people. and yet, here we are facing yet more rules. these rules take control away from uk authorities, making management of the infrastructure impossible. britain has not discriminated against foreign workers, and those willing to integrate with the existing population have been accepted, but now enough is enough. you say the free movement of workers is a fundamental freedom of eu citizens, a cornerstone of the internal market. i say a fundamental right of the uk is to roll away this stone and gain independence from europe. we need our independence now. sadly, a great british trade unionist and defender of working people, bob crow, died today. i wish the left would embrace his views in this debate.
blue-card question. – in answer to the lady, i was quoting an official commission document circulated in the committee on employment and social affairs in april last year, which clearly and unambiguously stated that in any competition for jobs anywhere in the eu, anybody from bulgaria or romania applying shall be given first choice over anybody from outside the european union. that is what i said, and that is what i meant, and that, madam, is discrimination outlawed under the lisbon treaty, and i want to know why it continues.
mr president, i was not blue-carding ms steinruck, i was asking to respond to the lady over there who named me for a second time in her response, and i require the right to reply. the lady concerned talked about my misinterpretation or the overuse of regulations, written and otherwise, by the commission. this whole house works by the written regulations! only recently we have had two examples in voting in this committee where a rapporteur was overturned in his request because he had not conformed to the exact written requisition that he was asking for. the whole point is that this place runs by written regulation, and i repeat, the regulation about workers from bulgaria and romania having pride of place over third country nationals was in a commission document of april last year, and mr andor will confirm that.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, the spring european council meeting is traditionally dedicated to economic and social policy. however, before looking at the economic agenda of next week’s european council, let me first say a few words about the other items on its agenda. international events have once again forced themselves onto the agenda of the council. the situation in ukraine is uppermost in our minds, and was, of course, the reason for last week’s extraordinary meeting of heads of state or government. i will refrain from going into detail now on this, since it is the subject of the next debate. i would simply say that it is highly likely that next week’s european council will revert to this issue. also on external relations, the march european council will discuss the eu-africa summit which, as you know, will bring together some one hundred heads of state or government in brussels on 2 and 3[nbsp ]april[nbsp ]2014. as i said, the march european council is traditionally focused on economic and social policy. the president of the council has decided to structure the debate around three major components of our strategy for growth, jobs and competitiveness: first, the european semester; second, industrial competitiveness; third, climate and energy. this is not a random set of issues. they are all closely interlinked. the european semester is the tool for monitoring implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, while industrial competitiveness, and climate and energy, are two of its levers. there can be no industrial competitiveness without a coherent climate and energy policy, and vice versa. as regards the european semester, the european council will conclude the first phase. the council provided guidance on policy priorities for 2014 in december, and this innovation underlines the importance of the semester process. next week the council will assess the implementation of the 2013 country-specific recommendations and provide guidance for further work on the stability and convergence programmes and national reform programmes with regard to the economic and social dimension. i would like to take this opportunity to thank this parliament for the significant work which you have undertaken on various aspects of the semester. we are approaching the end of an economic cycle. the consequences of the crisis are still being felt. growth is fragile and uneven, but the worst is probably behind us. this is one of the reasons why the council will look at the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. the president of the commission will provide for a review of the strategy in time for the spring 2015 european council. europe needs a strong and competitive industrial base. improving our competitiveness is essential. it is a vital component in ensuring the lasting recovery of our economies. the council will discuss how to achieve a strong and competitive industrial base in europe. it will look at how to strengthen the regulatory framework and the internal market. but that will not be enough. leaders will therefore be looking to support mainstreaming of competitiveness across all policy areas and to conduct systematic competitiveness proofing to make sure that we deliver on implementation. the european council will also address the issue of skills. we need to ensure that europe has access to skilled labour. we see that there are important shortages, for example in the area of science, technology, engineering and mathematics. those shortages must be addressed. another issue to be tackled by the council is that of high-growth sectors, where there is often a patenting lag. stimulating investment in innovation and new technologies is also a priority. competitiveness is also vital when we look at our industry from the perspective of the international markets. we must ensure the integration of european companies into global value chains as well as enhance our competitiveness through an ambitious trade and investment agenda. a strong and competitive european industry must be seen alongside a coherent climate and energy policy. the european council will therefore hold a first debate on a new policy framework for energy and climate in the period 2020 to 2030. the council is expected to call for early agreement, taking into account the timeline agreed in warsaw and the international events to come, in particular the cop 21 in paris next year, on an ambitious eu position on emissions reductions up to 2030. this of course is an area which will need to be developed further in the near future. the european council will also take stock of progress made since its meeting on energy last may. the completion of the internal energy market by 2014 and developing interconnections so as to end the exclusion of some member states from european gas and electricity networks by 2015 remain a priority. i do not need to highlight the importance of this issue in the light of recent events in ukraine. the european council will identify areas where further work is needed to reach these objectives. it will also look at how to tackle the issue of high energy costs. we expect this european council meeting to be an economic one as usual. but, as always, additional topics will need to be addressed. the european council will address all these issues alongside questions of how to achieve growth, create jobs and improve our competitiveness. as has been shown many times here in the debates in this parliament, our economic and social policy is our strength. it gives us greater weight on the international scene and enables us to play a leading role globally.
president of the commission. - mr president, it goes without saying that today, the eyes of europe and of the world are set on the crisis in ukraine. i am sure that the european council will also devote a large part of its work to this big issue. since we are going to discuss this issue later this morning, i will now concentrate on the other main elements on the agenda of the council. i expect the european council to take stock of the progress that has been achieved so far in the response to the economic crisis and focus on the policy decisions needed to consolidate the recovery. we need to keep up the pace of structural reform and reinforce our specific actions regarding the issue of unemployment. the european council, which will also be the last council before the european elections, will be a very important moment as regards maintaining the momentum. it will conclude the first phase of the european semester and debate the next steps to take in our reform agenda. the commission has already presented its assessment of the economic context and the state of play of macroeconomic reforms in countries under additional scrutiny. only two weeks ago, we had a debate in this plenary which led to the adoption of a resolution of this parliament on where it sees the priorities in the european semester. i was glad to note that there was a large degree of convergence on the priorities. as you know, we have revised our economic forecasts upwards. we now expect growth of 1.5[nbsp ]% this year for the european union as a whole, and of 2[nbsp ]% next year. this is again a slight improvement. growth is returning in europe, and this is also true for the most vulnerable member states. domestic consumption and investments are set to expand further, thus reducing europe’s dependency on the recovery of the external sector. this is good news for public budgets, because debt levels are still too high in several member states. these will need to be reduced further through smart fiscal consolidation and structural reforms that support growth. weak competitiveness is still a crucial concern in a number of countries, so implementation of our 2020 strategy and the country-specific recommendations remains as necessary as ever to improve their growth prospects. this is even better news for citizens, because growth is a prerequisite for jobs. the need to generate jobs – especially in order to fight youth unemployment – remains one of our main priorities. that is why we are urging governments to put in place youth guarantee schemes. it is also why we are organising a follow-up conference in brussels at the beginning of next month in order to keep up the momentum on what i think is the most important social challenge in europe today: unemployment, and specifically youth unemployment. confidence is based on credibility, and credibility depends on delivering on our commitments. since we started work on our banking union in 2012, we have seen the positive impact in terms of helping restore confidence and stability in europe’s markets. the single supervisory mechanism is on track to begin its work later this year. now there is an urgent need to deliver the final element – the single resolution mechanism. today’s trilogue will be very important. the commission has defended its proposal with vigour. it is the council alone which has to answer for its insistence on putting some elements into an intergovernmental agreement. but we need to be realistic, so the commission argued once again in the council meetings this week that the intergovernmental agreement must be kept to the minimum. we are in favour of accelerating the fund’s mutualisation and for it to have effective access to funding from day one. we are with parliament in seeking simpler governance rules that respect the autonomy of european law and its decision-making procedures, the institutional balance and the prerogatives of each institution to determine its own organisation. yesterday in ecofin, no progress was made as regards the respective roles of the council and the commission, and the commission remains deeply concerned as to the compliance of the council’s approach with the case law of the court. let me be clear: the commission has been working, and continues to work, constructively with you for an outcome that is as close as possible to our original draft, which is fully compatible with and upholds the primacy of european union law. i also expect the european council to endorse the approach of the commission’s communication on a european industrial renaissance – and then to not only talk the talk but also walk the walk, because a lot of the levers capable of making our industries more resilient are found at national level. the problems are clear. some of our industries have lost competitiveness; investment in research and innovation remains too low, holding back the modernisation of our industrial base; progress on improving the business climate remains uneven; european firms face higher energy prices than most of their leading competitors and have difficulties acquiring qualified labour and capital in affordable conditions. the commission is committed to doing its share of the work: for example, making our own rulebook more business-friendly; completing the integration of networks; supporting investment in new technologies through horizon 2020; providing eur[nbsp ]100 billion of european funds for smart specialisation in industry over the next seven years; assuring better access to finance, in particular for smes; supporting the development of skills; cutting red tape; negotiating trade agreements and supporting economic diplomacy and the internationalisation of firms. this is part of what we are doing. but member states have to be equally committed and decisive. many of the issues, in fact, have to be dealt with at member state level. some countries should do more to ensure that government services and regulations support industry’s needs; that labour markets are effective and conducive to job creation by companies; that a special effort is made to reduce the regulatory burden on smes; and that innovation projects and investment levels are cranked up, because only technological progress can guarantee competitiveness in the long run. last but not least, they need to ensure that all the necessary steps are taken towards dismantling the barriers that still exist to the full internal market that we wish to see, because this is one of the most difficult problems we have in europe when it comes, for instance, to areas such as the digital and energy sectors. we need to take more steps towards a real internal market for energy so as to keep down energy costs. the council has previously made commitments to doing this. i am sure this is also going to be discussed, and i hope that a clear signal is given in the european council. the same is true for climate action policy in relation to energy policy. this will probably be the most important point to discuss, together with ukraine, at the next european council. companies need a clear long-term regulatory perspective to base their investments on and stay competitive. rising energy prices for companies and consumers are a real cause for concern. at the same time, green technologies are critical for growth and jobs, provided that we create the right environment for them to prosper sustainably. and finally, in the light of the crisis in ukraine, no one will need to be reminded of the costs and dangers of europe’s continuing energy dependence. the triangle of competitiveness, sustainability and security was already the key rationale behind the 2020 climate and energy policies, and we have proved that we can make it work in practice. we are largely on track to reach our 2020 goals. we must now build on that and go further, setting the pace for an ambitious and affordable agenda towards 2030. the strategic climate and energy framework which the commission tabled a few weeks ago does just that. it proposes a binding, domestic greenhouse gas reduction target of minus 40[nbsp ]% by 2030 as compared with 1990. that is ambitious, not least when compared to other global actors. it is also feasible. and it is cost-effective, as our research shows, because 40[nbsp ]% is the smartest milestone on the path to our ambition for 2050. secondly, we should also set a binding 2030 target for renewables – at european level – of at least 27[nbsp ]% of energy consumption. ‘home-grown’ renewables are crucial, as they also contribute to our energy security. we have, however, proposed not to set 28 individual national targets any more, but rather to rely on a bottom-up approach, leaving more flexibility to the member states. i think the lessons of the past clearly show that this is the most efficient way to go. we need a smarter european division of labour here. member states remain free to set their own national renewables goals. we have to respect, of course, the national energy mixes. it is for them to define the goals at national level, but we should continue to support renewables, provided that they remain within our state aid rules. we shall make sure their combined efforts add up to the overall european union budget. this is possible to do through a reinforced governance scheme. lastly, energy efficiency. as you know, the current 2020 strategy does not have a binding target. the commission will undertake a review in mid-2014, and we should wait until after this review has been carried out before we consider the next steps. we expect to come with a proposal before expiry of the mandate of this commission. so the commission has set out a framework. the ambition is clear. the ball is now in the court of the member states’ governments and, of course, of this parliament. i expect the european council to make some progress next week and to give a clear signal that work will continue rapidly on the basis of that strategy, and that we will maintain the momentum by coming back to this issue in the european council later this year. i believe this discussion in the european council will be important, because we really need the ownership of the member states to commit to this more ambitious programme. i know this is a difficult decision for some, but i expect the european union will be able to maintain competitiveness and play a leading role on the climate agenda so that others can join in this effort. this is critically important; we cannot be alone in the world in this effort. we also need to have the major economies with us. we need to bring others along, in light of the high-level event organised by un secretary-general ban ki-moon in september this year. this is another reason why it is important that, when we go to new york in september, we show that the european union is leading the way with concrete proposals. it is not too soon, as some are saying. 2030 is around the corner. waiting is not an option. it would be good to give our businesses the certainty that they need for their investments as soon as possible. internationally, the european union can only continue to set the agenda if we do our own homework first. in all these areas, the internal challenges for europe are clear and call for decisive action. the international context is demanding and forces us to act together. recent events have shown how important it is that the european union remains together and that the member states work together. the european institutions have taken the lead, and we must continue to lead. with elections drawing near – and particularly in times of economic hardship – we should not lay down our tools; rather we should do the opposite: work as hard as we ever did. that is what our citizens expect from us, and that is what is at stake at the forthcoming european council. i hope the european council will respond to these issues with determined action.
blue-card question. – i am sure the house will join me in congratulating joseph daul on his re-election as president of the european people’s party (ppe). mr daul, at your congress you discussed how the situation in ukraine highlights our dangerous dependence on russian oil and gas. germany clearly has much at stake. my question is: why do you not send angela merkel to moscow to talk to them about the crisis in the crimea and about energy policy, rather than leaving it to john kerry? secondly: if we speed up the switch from fossil fuels to clean energy, we not only regain our independence from russia, we also meet our commitments to fight climate change. so why does the ppe continue to oppose the binding national targets that we need for the green energy switch of which mr barroso spoke?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, even by the standards of this place, today’s atmosphere has been leaden. a great global political leader, mr barroso, comes along and out of 750 members, 44 people turn up to listen. why is that? well, i have noticed something: i have been here fifteen years, but in the last five years something really big has changed. the european dream is crumbling, absolutely crumbling. there are a few maniacs in the front row here and in your commission who of course still want a united states of europe, but actually out there in the member states they do not. and most of the meps here, yes, they want a job, yes, they want to be re-elected, but the enthusiasm for this project is dying. why? well you have made two big mistakes. the first mistake was of course to extend the eurozone. it would have been ok had it just been germany and a few northern european countries, but to bring the mediterranean into the eurozone has been a disaster. the second mistake was to allow the free movement of people to southern and to eastern europe. we in the united kingdom – who have been the most open country with regard to immigration of any european country through a history that has lasted hundreds of years – now have 4[nbsp ]000 migrants a week who come to britain from the european union and stay for a year or more. these are the two realities that have hit home to people: the eu does not work economically, and open-door migration is fundamentally changing societies in ways that people do not want. listen to the economics. mr barroso, you talked today about the possibility of an industrial renaissance in europe, which sounded good. lighter-touch regulation – all very encouraging. and then you say: but we must pursue our climate-change carbon targets. the americans have gone for shale gas and reduced energy prices. the chinese are digging up coal in quantities we cannot fathom and building two coal-fired power stations every week. this policy of economic unilateralism on climate change is what is destroying jobs in europe, and the electors are going to have a chance in 72 days’ time to give their verdict. i suspect the next european parliament will be very much more exciting than this one has been this morning. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, my question is: with unemployment still a problem across europe, and indeed in the uk, does mr farage think it is a fair use of taxpayers’ money – namely his secretarial allowance – not only to employ his wife kirsten but also his former mistress, annabelle fuller? is this a responsible use of taxpayers’ money, mr farage?
blue-card answer. – i do not see any need to answer that at all.\*(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – had there been a proper question there, i might try to answer it. euroscepticism is growing right across the european union. nobody here, not even the maniacs that believe in the project, would question that. it is coming in all shapes and forms. it is on the right, it is in the centre, and it is on the left. the reason is of course – and you come from ireland, so you should know better than anybody – that actually no one has ever given consent for a political european union. the french clearly – followed by the dutch – rejected the constitution. they rebranded it as the lisbon treaty, and only one country had a referendum on that. that was ireland, and the people of ireland rejected it. so you cannot tell me that there is popular support for a united states of europe. mrs reding may believe it, mr barroso may believe it, one or two in the front row may believe it, but the peoples of europe do not believe it.
mr president, to find out what a meeting is about, it is sometimes necessary to put together different sources as though they were pieces in an intricate jigsaw. the agenda of the forthcoming meeting refers to the european semester which, among other things, includes inspection by the commission of reform programmes, including reforms of the labour market. the agenda also mentions industrial competitiveness and the importance of a strong and competitive industrial base as a driver for economic growth and jobs. if we refer back to a meeting of ecofin, held on 16[nbsp ]february[nbsp ]2012, about the european semester of that year, we find that ‘reforms need to focus on labour markets – in particular wage-setting mechanisms – to ensure efficient adjustment of labour costs’. what does all this mean? it means that a relatively high-wage economy, or group of economies, embracing the ideology of globalism and the process of globalisation, must drive down wages to compete with the emergent economies.
mr president, as we have heard, the first debate on the climate and energy framework 2030 will be held next week. this is the time when we need to be ambitious on climate change, because the need to cut emissions is becoming more urgent if we are to avoid dangerous levels of global warming. we need binding targets for energy efficiency as well as for increasing renewable energy. we have to listen to the science and the evidence. the commission’s own research shows that higher targets result in reduced dependence on energy imports and in savings on health spending. this is not just an environmental argument but an economic one. creating jobs is essential, particularly for young people. we need sustainable employment in the energy sector. i know from my own constituency in wales that they look to the eu for leadership. we need to keep our promises to the people that we will work effectively to combat climate change. i urge the council to meet the challenge.
mr president, two weeks ago we celebrated the overthrow of an authoritarian kleptocrat, the ousted president of ukraine, yanukovych, who does seem to have authorised the shooting of his own people. i spoke then of the need for russia to honour the 1994 budapest assurances to respect ukraine’s territorial integrity, including the crimea, but few of us could have predicted at the time that there would be a military land-grab by putin, justified by a pack of lies and his will and keenness to revive the glories of the disappeared soviet union and reabsorb the east of ukraine, no matter what the costs or the international legal violations by his government are. the response of the ukrainian people to the invasion is clear. russia is not wanted in ukraine. so putin is now engineering a phoney and illegal referendum at the point of a gun in crimea, which offers no real choice. he has even sent a tatar envoy from kazan to attempt to bribe the crimean tatars into accepting russian rule, as they remember well their previous ill-treatment by russia under stalin. meanwhile, crimea has descended into lawlessness, with journalists and opponents beaten up by russian forces, and the main synagogue has been daubed with swastikas. the eu must support the interim ukraine government financially and politically as it continues its extremely admirable resistance, with self-restraint, to this severe provocation by russia. the eu must hit russia hard with tough economic sanctions. putin must understand that these sorts of aggressive actions have no place in modern europe and will not go unpunished.
mr president, separatism, violence, repression or indeed having to make a choice between europe and russia will never be in the interests of the people of ukraine. however, ukraine needs to remain at the core of our foreign policy and certainly not be part of our fight against russia. the interim government of ukraine was terribly wrong to remove russian as a national language. i wonder whether they were hoping for reconciliation or for more protests. however, there was equally no justification whatsoever for the mobilisation of russian forces, and there can be no fair referendum on the future of crimea at the point of a russian gun. therefore, economic sanctions against russia must be put into effect if russia does not stand down, even if this means negative economic consequences for the eu. whilst we must put pressure on russia, what is the high representative doing to ensure that the people of ukraine ... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, the present crisis in ukraine did not start with a russian invasion. it started with the eu’s reaction to ukraine’s rejection of the eu-ukrainian trade deal. this reaction took the form of the eu’s friends in that country exploiting ukrainian nationalists to provide paramilitary assistance on the streets. i am no supporter of mr yanukovych, of his political or personal background or his tactics against demonstrators. however, the ukrainian parliament does not have the power simply to remove the president under article 108, and it does not appear that the impeachment procedures under article 111 were followed. the eu is determined to ensnare ukraine by bribery and intimidation. i certainly do not view the presence of russian troops in the ukraine with equanimity; i would like them to withdraw. however, russia is reacting to extreme acts of provocation, not just by the eu but also the us. we know this … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, when russia moved into georgia in 2008, the european union acted. mr[nbsp ]sarkozy went straight to moscow and secured the withdrawal of troops. this time mrs[nbsp ]merkel should have gone to moscow, but the eu blinked – and now, despite our demands, russia is not talking directly to ukraine and it is not pulling troops back to their bases. so, in line with last week’s council conclusions, we must target sanctions at russia’s policymakers. if russia continues to back the referendum in the crimea, to destabilise ukraine, we will need wider economic sanctions. but since we insist on dialogue, europe’s leaders should still go to moscow: directly, not through a contact group. europe must face down russia. we must not leave the leadership to the usa.
in writing. - i welcome this discussion on the eu’s relationship with pakistan as it again affords me a platform to place a spotlight on the persecution of christians in pakistan. the committee’s report strongly condemns the anti-blasphemy laws in place in pakistan, which disproportionately impact religious minorities and adds another element of fear in the lives of those with a christian faith. only in august, charges against a muslim cleric accused of framing a christian girl for blasphemy were dropped. and i would echo calls for these laws to be removed. this report also rightly stresses the need for the pakistani authorities to further strengthen the fight against islamic extremist terrorism and support the rule of law. this approach is vital. pakistan remains one of the main recipients of eu development assistance. and ultimately, it is in this context that i feel this parliament should better place the need for an end to injustices against religious minorities at the core of its negotiations moving forward.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and fully support deeper eu engagement with pakistan. as the report rightly notes, pakistan is an important player in regional and international politics. scotland is a country with an important community of pakistani origin and i am sure that any moves to enhance eu-pakistani cooperation will be especially welcomed by this community.
in writing. - i supported this report, which is important in the context of the uk pakistani community. it highlights the fact that clear progress in eu-pakistan relations is linked to improvements in pakistanʼs human rights record, particularly in regard to bonded labour, child labour, womenʼs rights, freedom of speech and protection of minorities. by calling on pakistani authorities to effectively implement the 36 ilo conventions it has ratified, this report has my full backing, in particular with regard to allowing the operation of trade unions, eradicating child labour, and improving the conditions and safety standards of workers, focusing especially on eradicating the exploitation of three million female domestic workers.
in writing. - i represent a party which fully supports european defence cooperation and is committed to an independent scotland remaining within nato. nevertheless, this report has serious flaws and risks opening cracks in eu defence policy. accordingly i voted against.
in writing. - we commend the rapporteur for what is essentially a sound report, relating to ballistic missile defence. however, as with so many reports from parliament, it now regrettably includes a reference to eu initiatives and the involvement of the external action service and the european defence agency, none of which are in any way relevant to the matter in hand. it also refers to ‘eu military capabilities’ and to ‘the european defence industry’. both concepts are imaginary – the eu has no military capabilities and there is no such thing as a european defence industry. we feel sure also that nato cooperation with russia will be reassessed in the light of the present crisis in the ukraine. the report nevertheless provides a useful assessment of the threats posed by nuclear proliferation and considers what role nato and european allies can play in order to respond effectively in relation to the ballistic missile shield. on balance, but with the above reservations, the ecr voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - thailand is a major producer of canned tuna and it is important that imports to the eu comply with european standards. i was able to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i very much welcome the focus of this report. it is vital that we as meps stress the importance of educating our children and young people on the benefits of good nutrition in our schools and colleges. in my own constituency, a survey conducted by the public health agency (pha) estimated that over 60[nbsp ]% of adults living in northern ireland are now overweight or obese. this situation is unacceptable. it is important that we equip a new generation of young people with a proper knowledge of what to eat, what not to eat, and how much to eat. and i am pleased that the committee considers the benefits that ict offers towards this education more interactive and effective. i also share this report’s emphasis on the cultural and tourist potential offered by indigenous local produce and culinary styles. in northern ireland, the agri-food industry is a vital part of the local economy, and at the core of this are many projects that provide tourists with an insight into quality, specialist ulster produce. it is right that these opportunities are exploited.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the gastronomic heritage of europe. a heritage that includes, of course, that of my constituency, wales. it emphasises the value of local production and gmo free products as well as promoting respect for the environment and the need to educate citizens on the importance of nutrition and healthy eating.
in writing. - this report deals with important aspects of europeʼs culture and highlights the need to educate youngsters about food. the scottish government has its own national food and drink policy and many of its priorities overlap with this report.
in writing. - i was pleased to have the opportunity to acknowledge and support the contribution gastronomy makes to our local economy and culture and i am happy to support this report which respects the principle of subsidiarity while also adding value and emphasises the wide diversity of gastronomy in europe. i am pleased that many of my amendments were adopted in committee, for example regarding the importance of gastronomy in promoting the hospitality sector as well as stressing that gastronomy is a strong cultural export for the eu and individual member states. not to forget that gastronomy has a particularly high value when it comes to tourism and jobs. i would also like to highlight the important trade element of selling our local and regional ingredients and produce within our member states as well as to third countries. further, the report highlights the importance of better educating our young people about nutrition and diet. i am proud of my country and region’s gastronomic heritage. my region, east midlands, has many delicious dishes, such as the melton mowbray pork pie, stilton cheese and the lincolnshire sausage for example, as well as many ingredients exported across europe and the world by our farmers and food producers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because this procedure simplifies and updates data protection regulations, making them more accessible and user-friendly for eu citizens. at the same time these citizensʼ fundamental rights and freedoms are not jeopardised in any way, so this can be seen as an effective means of personal data protection.
in writing. - the internet transcends national borders – so personal data is impervious to the sole jurisdiction of individual states. this is therefore an area suitable for supervision within the framework of the single market, for the benefit both of individual internet users who want to assure themselves of harmonised data and privacy policies wherever in the eu they go online, and for businesses, which are currently forced to navigate 28 individual legal systems. the eu can add real value in this area by coordinating and clarifying rules on data protection and processing. clearly the right to privacy must always be reconciled with the right to free data flow, and this issue invokes a host of broader concerns about digital freedom, surveillance and over-regulation. the report is not perfect, but makes good progress on a complicated issue, and i voted for it.
in writing. - i fully support this report, which looks at protecting individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. one of the most important outcomes of this report is making anti-union discrimination and blacklisting illegal. i welcome the clarity that this report brings to ensure that using information on employeesʼ political beliefs or trade union membership to blacklist them is illegal, and that member states must adopt appropriate sanctions to enforce this. these specific measures to outlaw blacklisting across the eu have been welcomed by uk and welsh unions in their campaign to get justice for the workers affected by blacklisting in the past.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because counterfeiting of the euro is a serious criminal matter and i believe all necessary action should be taken to discourage and stop such activities taking place. not only does counterfeiting damage the eu economy but it also damages the stability of the currency itself. therefore all steps necessary should be taken, which this report encourages and promotes, to stop any such illegal activity taking place.
in writing. - it is a tragedy that in the 21st century thousands of children in conflict zones around the world are drawn deeply into fighting. this report highlights important issues and the eu must play an active role in seeking to eradicate these problems.
in writing. - hundreds of thousands of children are currently involved in armed conflict and children are at a heightened risk of multiple and repeated violations of their most fundamental rights. i fully support this recommendation, which states that armed non-state actors (ansas) have a responsibility and obligation to protect people in accordance with international humanitarian law. the international campaign that this recommendation wants to encourage will look to engage with ansas to ensure they comply with international humanitarian law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this objection to the commission on engineered nanomaterials. it is vital that nanomaterials in food are labelled in order to properly inform the consumer. i have long campaigned on better legislation on labelling and i know that the issue is of great importance to my constituents in wales.
mr president, the great myth that lies behind this report, and so many others that we pass in this chamber, is that without european integration there will be no collaboration among the member states, and that is a false proposition. so in this specific field of collaboration in the field of criminal justice, you would think that before the european union there was a completely atomised world where a series of autarchic countries did not talk to each other. we know that is not the case. we had extremely sophisticated mechanisms in place to collaborate as sovereign democracies. we had the hague convention, we had interpol, we have extradition rules, and we recognise the time spent in another country’s prison as part of one’s sentence. all these things were working well, and working globally rather than just regionally, before the european union began to dip its toe into this field in the 1990s. it does not follow that handing power to brussels is the only way to guarantee collaboration among sovereign states; the alternative to a federal europe is not anarchy but democratic cooperation for the achievement jointly of what cannot be achieved singly.
mr president, launched in 2002, the single european sky initiative has been very slow to take shape. but of course, job creation in the industry, a reduction in fuel burned by aircraft and an environment conducive to more competitive ticket prices are all touted as potential benefits if it were really to come to full fruition. it is, therefore, disappointing that the commission’s original proposals seem to have taken a wrong turn. despite all my reservations, however, my overriding concern with this report lies with the discriminatory elements it contains against gibraltar. as a previous representative for gibraltar many years ago, i continue to follow developments closely in the territory, and i am disappointed that the committee on transport and tourism of this parliament has allowed such amendments to pass. all provisions of the single european sky must apply to gibraltar and all its citizens, and any attempt at exclusion is totally unacceptable to the uk conservative delegation.
mr president, i too rise to discuss the specific element of the exclusion of gibraltar, which is an eu member state. it is discriminatory, and i am afraid it is impossible to repress the suspicion that that arbitrary exclusion was made for reasons of national prejudice. look at it from the point of view of a gibraltarian. when it comes to imposing the obligations of eu membership, particularly on banking secrecy and financial services, they are treated as a full member state required to accept every dot and comma of the treaties. but when it comes to pressing their rights as an eu member, for example to free movement and the ability to cross the border unhindered, suddenly a different standard applies. a similar criticism, by the way, could be made on behalf of other member states, not simply of the territory of gibraltar. there is an arbitrary way in which rules are applied; there is no abstract rule of law but rather a political one in which the dots and commas of the treaties are subordinated to political imperatives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i also voted for amendment[nbsp ]27. the 1987 gibraltar airport agreement already exists between the uk and spain and was mentioned in the original open sky regulation. an eu transport regulation should not override this. negotiations will continue.
in writing. - the single european sky regulation had a number of positive aspects, and is a good example of an area where eu regulation is beneficial and can reduce burdens on national systems. however, i was disappointed that meps, including members of the scottish national party, voted to exclude gibraltar airport from the scope of this regulation. for this reason i could not vote in favour of the final report.
in writing. - i support this report, and especially because gibraltar is part of the eu and should therefore be part of the single european sky project.
in writing. - i support this package of reports on the implementation of the single european sky and the regulation in the field of aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services. these legislative proposals build on the single european sky initiative, bringing air traffic management and navigation systems under the common transport policy. i believe that there is a need to change the current approach to airspace to cope with increasing demands from passengers for delay-free, environmentally friendly and affordable air travel. i hope that these new proposals will accelerate the implementation of the reforms so that passengers can benefit and i am glad that measures to promote proper monitoring of staffing conditions was supported.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. many developments have taken place since the existing directive on the rights of travellers was adopted. the internet has transformed the situation, for example. it is vital that the rights of welsh consumers are protected.
in writing. - much of the existing legislation in this area is rather old and predates the internet age. it is important that the law is updated to ensure that consumers have adequate rights which reflect the 21st century travel market. i believe that the rapporteur found an acceptable balance and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and the reforms proposed by parliament as they will create both greater protection for consumers but also a higher degree of certainty for travel businesses regarding the extent of their potential liabilities. it is essential to update the current rules to reflect the modern reality, market and methods of trading. these reforms ensure an increased clarity and flexibility for consumers which will in turn also increase consumer confidence. it is vital that we close loopholes, making clear to travel companies their duty of care to holidaymakers and their own liability.
in writing. - this report, which looks at providing greater protection to holidaymakers purchasing package travel, gets my full support. with the significant growth of internet sales in recent years, the old package travel directive needed updating and the reforms voted for in this report will bring better protection for customers and a higher degree of certainty for travel businesses regarding the extent of their potential liabilities. establishing a level playing field between operators and removing obstacles to cross-border trade is also covered in this report. i am pleased that the liability and insolvency issues in this report were supported.
in writing. - the current law regulating the organisers and sellers of package holidays is being updated to take account of the significant rise in online sales and to close loopholes. i supported this report as it will provide better protection for consumers and more certainty for travel businesses as to their responsibilities. under the new proposal, consumers will find it easier to cancel a package holiday or transfer it to another person, and the rules are clearer on what consumers can expect in case of a travel business becoming insolvent. organisers of package holidays will also be responsible for all travel services included in the package - such as flights, hotels and car hire - and in cases where the service is not as stated in the contract, the organiser will be obliged to provide assistance, and possibly make alternative arrangements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases) can be up to 23[nbsp ]000 times more potent than carbon dioxide. this legislation could be the single biggest contribution to climate protection achieved during this parliament. as a former member of the wales climate change commission, i know how important it is.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement because fluorinated greenhouse gases pose a threat to the climate. in this new legislation the eu is tackling this problem as part of its commitment to protecting our environment. in a cost-effective way this new legislation will aid the transition to the next generation of climate-friendly alternatives in which uk and european industry already has a competitive edge.
in writing. - i supported this report on the proposal for a regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases. these gases pose a threat to the climate and in this new legislation, i am pleased that the eu is tackling this problem as part of its commitment to protecting our environment. in a cost-effective way, this new law will aid the transition to the next generation of climate-friendly alternatives in which uk and european industry already has a competitive edge.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i am in favour of freedom of movement for workers. however, i believe that the question of non-discrimination in relation to the access to the member statesʼ labour markets (and welfare systems) must go hand in hand with the fight against social dumping. i regret that the report does not deal with the issue of equal pay and equal working conditions, which were undermined by the european court of justice ruling in the laval case.
in writing. - i support this report that gives procedural rights to workers using their right to free movement. as my own research and that of my party, plaid cymru has shown, the free movement of people is essential to the welsh economy and to welsh citizens. it is a fundamental principle of the eu and an appropriate legal framework must be in place.
in writing. - freedom of movement for workers is a cornerstone of the eu and the single market. it is somewhat worrying that in the uk there are increasing calls from all the london parties to curtail this freedom. scotlandʼs future is in the eu – and only by securing our independence can we ensure that we remain a part of the european mainstream.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as a strengthened eia directive will benefit not only the environment but also human health and the economy. procedures will be simplified and more efficient and the new law will increase transparency for local residents and communities. labour meps will continue to work to ensure that the health of citizens and the local environment are always prioritised.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to update the current directive on environmental impact assessments. a strengthened eia directive will bring numerous benefits to the environment, human health and the economy. i am pleased that the measures included in this report mean that procedures will be simplified and the new law will increase transparency for local residents and communities. it is important that we continue to work to ensure that the health of citizens and the local environment are always prioritised.
in writing. - this report updates eu legislation on environmental impact assessments (eias) to take account of technological developments. it includes a number of measures which will improve the current rules, including making it easier for the public to access information on projects and ensuring there is no conflict of interest between authorities and developers. labour meps would have liked to see stricter rules on shale gas exploration and fracking, and we did manage to get mandatory eias for this included when meps voted in october 2013. unfortunately, this was blocked by member states, including the uk government, and it has not been included in the final agreement. nevertheless, under the new rules, an eia will be required if a project has a significant effect on land, soil, water and biodiversity and poses a significant threat to health, and governments will have to explain why this does not apply if they decide not to request an eia. labour meps believe this will make it very hard for governments to refuse eias for fracking projects and, as the proposal also includes a number of other measures that will strengthen the directive and benefit the environment, human health and the economy, we supported the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries. the good functioning of the eu as a democratic and accountable legislator is very important to wales, and is to be welcomed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as i seek to ensure that any acts which set rules and norms in the field of statistics on external trade with non-member countries should be adopted by delegated acts to give parliament an appropriate role.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on copernicus, the successor of the european earth observation programme. wales will benefit from the knowledge gained through this programme that will support the application of environmental protection schemes, regional and local planning as well as agriculture, transport and tourism. it should also contribute to much needed job creation. statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries (delegated and implementing powers)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the copernicus programme will produce an expected financial benefit of around eur[nbsp ]30 billion along with 50[nbsp ]000 new jobs by 2030.
in writing. - i support this report, which looks at the copernicus programme, which is the successor to the gmes programme. this programme will provide an earth observation system by using satellites to provide information on the environment. it will also be used to monitor natural disasters and it will help organise city planning and agriculture more efficiently. i back the use of the programme which is expected to bring around eur[nbsp ]30 billion in financial benefit and around 50[nbsp ]000 new jobs from 2015-2030.
mr president, it is astonishing that ukraine has been brought to the brink of a war essentially as the result of its ousted president’s failure, or refusal, to sign the association agreement in vilnius. but let it illustrate the point that the european union, in spite of all its faults, does matter in these countries. the eu represents to them democracy, honest government, future prosperity and, more importantly, a break from the clutches of putin’s neo-soviet imperialism and recent aggression. but the eu cannot – and must not – treat partners such as ukraine, georgia and moldova as a chess piece in a geopolitical battle with russia. these countries must be allowed to decide their own fate without interference. in the meantime, we must concentrate on building comprehensive political dialogues with all the eastern partnership countries across a broad spectrum, encompassing everything from energy security to future visa liberalisation.
in writing. - the extent to which state agencies in the us and eu have been monitoring citizens is quite shocking. it is important that this house sends out a strong message that the mass surveillance of citizens is wholly unacceptable.
in writing. - i voted for this report as i feel further reform and protection needs to be legislated in this area, following the revelations made by edward snowden. this can be done primarily through improving current weaknesses in the it security of eu citizens – which this report takes steps towards achieving. in challenging current issues about privacy and data i believe it is important that legislative reform is made to match the speed of updating technology and updates in these areas.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report which opposes mass surveillance by the nsa. mass surveillance not only endangers the eu-us trade deal, but also hinders eu citizens' privacy. the aim of this report is to strengthen eu citizens' privacy in many ways, by for example, suspending the safe harbour privacy principles and the terrorist finance tracking programme (tftp) both of which permit us authorities to obtain personal data such as bank details of eu citizens. this report also calls for a european whistle-blower protection programme which asks eu countries to consider granting whistle-blowers international protection from prosecution as well as introducing an eu cloud which leads europe to develop its own clouds and it solutions such as cyber security and encryption which in return all ensure a high level of data protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which was drafted by my labour colleague, claude moraes and looks at the revelations of mass surveillance of eu citizens' communications by the us and some member state governments. the parliament held an inquiry into the allegations, which looked at the legality, proportionality and involvement of member states in the surveillance. in light of the inquiry's findings, this report calls for the suspension of two key eu-us data-sharing agreements, the development of an eu 'cloud' to reduce dependency of eu citizens on the us cloud and for eu action to protect whistle-blowers and press freedom. in addition, data protection should not be included in the eu-us trade agreement and a separate eu-us data protection framework agreement should be adopted as soon as possible. the report also calls on the european council to finally begin work on the proposed data protection package, with the aim of beginning negotiations with the parliament and reaching an agreement by the end of 2014. law-abiding citizens rightly expect their privacy to be respected when communicating and sharing data online and we should do everything we can to uphold this fundamental right.
in writing. - ukipʼs position is against. the eu is very ‘kindlyʼ going to assess our criminal justice system for us and then doubtless legislate a whole lot more to improve and harmonise it.
in writing. - as an mep for northern ireland, i am all too aware of the impact both for rises in terrorist activity and organised crime of free movement between europe’s borders. and of course it is important that member states therefore cooperate in order to fight and apprehend the perpetrators of these crimes. however, this report would compel national governments to give more and more information on their own criminal justice systems. it would also see the extension of the eu justice scoreboard to include criminal matters. i find this direction completely reprehensible. my constituency forms a part of the united kingdom, and i believe our government at westminster must continue to have sovereignty over the processes used to bring criminals to justice in our own land. last year, the home secretary confirmed that the uk would opt out of eu policing and criminal justice measures adopted before the lisbon treaty came into force. i support this decision and will oppose any further attempts at harmonisation of eu justice systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it supports a policy framework aimed at increasing consumer choice while at the same time protecting both rights holders and consumers. i was pleased that many of my amendments were adopted in the final report. for example my call for standards for ensuring interoperability of connected tvs to be developed by industry in order not to stifle innovation. further i am also pleased that the report now expressly encourages the creation of apps, even though i think the final report is still far too negative regarding ‘appisation’, given that this is a flourishing market. i am glad that consumer protection is highlighted, especially with regard to the need to protect our youth. lastly, as one of my amendments stressed, i regret that there are still too many areas in europe without high-speed broadband as they cannot take advantage of the opportunities offered by the new digital age. this is also the case for many people in my constituency, the east midlands. and i would like to remind the commission that it is vital for consumers to have access to high-speed internet in order to unlock the potential of a converged audiovisual world.
in writing. - this report, which was drafted in response to a commission green paper, aims to trigger a public debate on the impact of the audiovisual media landscape and the way that media services are delivered and consumed. this report, which i fully support, looks at consumers, youth and data protection and also measures to safeguard diversity and the dual nature of the media as a cultural and economic asset. market considerations are also taken into account.
in writing. - i welcome this report, which looks at the commissionʼs proposals to reinforce eu citizensʼ rights. many citizens still encounter a number of obstacles in their everyday lives and this report looks at ways of tacking these problems. these include making it easier for those who are job-searching or studying in another eu country by reducing excessive paperwork and eliminating cross-border barriers. i also support the reportʼs focus on calling for member states and local and regional authorities to better inform citizens about their eu rights.
in writing. - i voted against the iacolino report on the european public prosecutorʼs office (eppo) because while i fully support the fight against fraud in the euʼs budget, the establishment of the eppo would fundamentally encroach upon the sovereignty of national criminal justice systems.
in writing. - ukipʼs position is strongly against this proposal which is part and parcel of the desire to create an over-arching european criminal law system.
in writing. - although i support the scope of the european public prosecutorʼs office (eppo) being used solely to prevent crimes against the financial interests of the european union and to prevent forum shopping in the eu, it is however our position that any eppo would then have to be agreed by all member states for this to be successful. not all member states would participate in the case of ‘enhanced cooperationʼ and therefore such a proposal would not put an end to forum shopping.
in writing. - turkey is an important strategic ally of the uk, being both a member of nato and the g20. its broader geo-strategic position and strong trade links with the eu further underline the need for close cooperation and engagement. broadly i support the tone of the 2013 progress report; however, i welcome some of the more critical aspects that have been highlighted by this parliament. the eu is built upon respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. it is therefore unfortunate to be able to point to some many instances in which the current turkish government has shown disregard for those values over the past year. changes to the constitution; meddling with the independence of the judiciary; a large scale re-organisation of the police force following a government corruption scandal; a crackdown on media-freedom – the list is disappointingly long. as a long friend of cyprus, i would also like to take the opportunity to note my support for renewed dialogue on this issue, and to call on the turkish government to engage with cyprus’ positive stance on famagusta, using this as a confidence-building measure to resolve the wider impasse.
in writing. - recent events have shown turkey’s human rights agenda is far behind what is acceptable by eu standards. the government’s approach to the freedom of the press, the social media and the judiciary all put into question turkey’s application to join the eu. recent protests in turkey have highlighted how many feel the government is taking a heavy-handed approach and that it refuses to listen to the people. the government’s positioning in the area of women’s rights, and its lack of support for women is also unacceptable. having worked on the report ‘women in turkey’, i feel there is still a lot more work to do in ensuring women have a respected voice in turkish society. i would welcome turkey’s continuing efforts to join the eu, but it must put its own house in order first, and understand that if it joins the eu club it must play by eu rules. if it serious in joining the eu, it must understand that it will be joining a club of 28 member states – it must respect each and every state and show serious commitment to european values.
madam president, the troika was invented to cope with the stagnation of growth and jobs. it has imposed austerity packages which have included reducing wages. however, trade unions have long argued that wage depression becomes dangerous. one country’s domestic demand becomes another’s export potential. squeezing wages also squeezes demand, so imports and exports both go down. in such a closely-related trading block as the eu, that becomes a serious problem for all, as it sets in motion a downward spiral. a stable home market keeps production going and boosts exports to the rest of the world. the greatest hope, surely, is to allow those eu countries that need it to withdraw from the euro and to restart trading on a better basis. it will be hard going, but they will see the end coming into sight. of course, to remain competitive, they will have to set their currency at a favourable rate for the export trade, and that is to devalue. in that case, wages will remain low. but what do people want: a low paid job or no job at all? for those countries most badly hit, their economies are in the hands of the unelected troika. can we really accept that, in an eu which keeps on emphasising its democratic credentials, we have actually seen the duly-elected prime ministers of two member states usurped by the placemen of the troika? unless the eu returns to proper democracy, we shall not see the end of this austerity.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his honesty. as he points out, the eu institutions are responsible for the conditions of the economic adjustment programmes that are bringing hardship and despair to so many people. the eu was ill-prepared and ill-equipped to deal with the sovereign debt crisis. it is young people who are suffering the highest levels of unemployment; there is a decline in job quality and a deterioration in basic labour standards. however, it is not just greece, portugal, ireland and cyprus – the countries that have seen their economic governance fall under the control of the troika – which are affected. my constituency, the west midlands, has always been an industrial powerhouse, a centre of innovation and manufacturing excellence, but the eurozone crisis, burdensome eu red tape and the relocation of traditional industries to other eu member states have left us in a situation where unemployment currently stands at 8.1[nbsp ]%, which is above the uk national average. some 220[nbsp ]000 people in the region are unemployed. to you, that may be just a statistic, but to 220[nbsp ]000 of my constituents and their families – people with a traditionally strong work ethic – it is a tragedy. it spells frustration; it is a shame; it means young people leaving education but seeing no career, no prospects and no future. the troika is addressing the symptoms of the crisis but we need to look at the cause. the eurozone is bringing us all down. the good news is that, through hard work and inward investment, the number of people unemployed in the west midlands is falling. but perhaps the biggest boost to our economy will be when, following a referendum, we free ourselves from the economic basket-case that the eu is becoming.
madam president, i followed this report in the committee on employment and social affairs. i think analysing measures which have been taken at european level is very important. it is quite right that we, as the european parliament and a democratic body, have the opportunity to express an opinion on what has been done on our behalf. we should also be ready to learn from these experiences. but we must remember that hindsight is a wonderful thing, and we must not attempt to put the blinkers on in order to exclude the context in which these difficult measures were put in place. in other words, we should not just blame the medicine when the affliction itself was very often much of the cause. europe has just experienced the most difficult economic crisis since the great depression, but we are slowly coming through it. things are slowly starting to improve, even in the west midlands. ms[nbsp ]sinclaire painted a pretty bleak picture of the west midlands, but we have had the highest increase in employment in the uk over recent months, and we are responsible for pretty much all of the increase in uk exports and half of the total exports to china. this is the future. we need to turn to the future. we need to make sure that economic growth continues and that the benefits of this growth are passed on to the citizens who have been hit the hardest by the crisis. business confidence needs to be restored to facilitate and encourage job creation so as to decrease the unacceptably high unemployment in these countries. eu funds such as the esf and the youth employment initiative should be used to their full potential in order to assist this recovery.
madam president, we have heard explained the failure of troika policies and of those governments that have implemented them. this includes the failure of british austerity policies in the north of ireland. to focus on my amendments about giving the irish people a fairer deal: amendments[nbsp ]8 and 27 seek the implementation of what the taoiseach called a ‘seismic shift’ agreed at the june[nbsp ]2012 eurogroup meeting – the retrospective recapitalisation of irish banks. there has been much prevarication on this, and it is time that the european parliament stated where it stands, because taking note is not good enough. amendment[nbsp ]25 asks for jean-claude trichet’s letter of november[nbsp ]2012 to the irish finance minister to be published. this is believed to have threatened the withdrawal of emergency liquidity assistance from ireland if ireland refused to accept the bail-out, which included a ban on ‘burning the bondholders’. the european central bank last week refused once again to release this letter, despite a request from the european ombudsman’s office to do so.
mr president, mr cercas’s report explains succinctly the formula being applied to the countries investigated: wage freezes and cuts, cuts in welfare spending, part-time and temporary work, and involuntary emigration. it then leaps to three laudable objectives: increased employment, reduction in poverty and reduction in school drop-out rates. it quite rightly calls for an end to austerity. you do not make people richer or reduce their indebtedness by making them poorer. however, its other recommendations lack substance or definition and amount to a prayer for things to improve. it shies away from the root cause: the fact that the euro’s value is too high for their economies. only withdrawal from the eurozone and a reintroduction of their national currencies, which will fall in value, will allow them to enjoy export-led expansions. the austerity programmes were designed to save the eurozone; they were not designed to help the four countries concerned.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr believes firmly in human rights, regardless of who the people are or where they come from. the un human rights council is also a valuable global body, which has the great potential to improve, at least in principle, the human rights situation everywhere. however, it is far from perfect, as it includes countries with a very poor human rights record such as cuba, vietnam, china, russia and even saudi arabia, which has recently been elected to the council. parliament’s resolution on the topic also appears to come down very harshly on some countries and not harshly enough on others. countries such as russia, iran and eritrea deserve to have the spotlight continually shone on them, as they persist in abusing the rights of political opponents and the least-powerful members of society, such as women and religious and ethnic minorities. i also support the proposal to include a mention of western sahara, whose people deserve the right to decide on their future once and for all. in my report on the sahel, i pointed out the plight of the refugee camps near tindouf in algeria. i also condemned the harsh new laws passed recently in countries such as nigeria and uganda against the lgbt communities. other countries, such as north korea, the central african republic, eritrea and – above all – syria are very difficult to ignore. in the case of syria, the international community must not abandon the millions of people – including children – who lack the most basic necessities for staying alive while a crazed dictator clings to power by murder and torture. my group wishes the best of luck to the countries tackling these issues and to the external action service, for all its faults, as it continues its challenging work in promoting human rights universally. as ever, the eu must mobilise its considerable resources and continue its dialogue with civil society and governments everywhere to help to create a more just and better world.
mr president, once again the european parliament will play an active part in the current session of the un human rights council. this is a session which will receive the results of the independent commission of inquiry in syria, where starvation is being used as a deliberate weapon of war and where, once again, our resolution calls for referral to the international criminal court. i also join the president-in-office tonight in calling for the full cooperation of israel in the universal periodic review, but i warn parliament that the proper condemnation of rights abuses in the israeli-palestinian conflict should not become disproportionate to our criticisms of similar abuses in other countries, or we may end up repeating in strasbourg the mistakes that were made in geneva, discrediting the entire exercise. today i again met sri lankan representatives and explained that our call for independent credible investigations into past violations will not end until prosecutions are undertaken and completed. today i also had the privilege, with my friend and colleague mr grzyb, of meeting nobel peace prize laureate shirin ebadi, who told me that europe should insist on iran ending public executions and ending the execution of minors as a condition of starting a human rights dialogue between the european union and that country – a country which is hanging three people a day. in our resolution, my group will support the naming of specific countries in criticisms of human rights council members in paragraph 3, and i regret that our european conservative mep colleagues are choosing not to do this. on behalf of my group too, i ask parliament to support our amendment for a just resolution of the western sahara conflict in accordance with un resolutions. finally, i went on a human rights mission of this parliament to mexico to see the protection of journalists that is offered there. yet this month, anabel hernandez, an investigative journalist, found the headless carcasses of four chickens and a goat outside her door following publication of her exposés. her conscience, courage and convictions are the bedrock of many a un resolution. the debates in this chamber and in its equivalent in geneva must make a difference to human rights defenders like anabel. it is our duty to do so.
mr president, i want to ask the question: why was our high representative for foreign affairs in iran last weekend? she arrived in iran on international women’s day, in a country that oppresses women, where women are routinely tortured and raped in their prisons. indeed, two days before she arrived, a 25-year-old mother was hanged, leaving behind a 10-year-old daughter. she had been in prison since she was a teenager. did baroness ashton raise that issue when she met the smiling, apparently moderate president rouhani under whose seven-month reign 600 people have already been hanged? we have heard in this debate that three people are hanged every day. on the day she arrived, the israelis stopped an iranian vessel carrying rockets and other weapons destined for palestine militants in gaza. did she raise that issue with president rouhani? she has given a propaganda coup to the iranian mullahs, and we should be ashamed that she went on our behalf. why is she not here today?
mr president, the sri lankans are perfectly capable of defending their own country and their own democracy. sri lanka became a universal-franchise democratic state in 1931, a long time before 19 of the 28 eu member states. it is laughable for the eu to lecture sri lanka on good governance. since 1948, it has peacefully changed governments and presidents over 15 times, even during a bloody 28-year terrorist war. the eu resolution calls for an international mechanism to establish the truth. what nonsense! this imperial mindset must stop. otherwise we will be ignored, as putin is now doing. sri lanka has set up its own high-level commissions. one has court-martialled 430 soldiers; another has spent eur[nbsp ]3 billion on reconstruction; another has investigated 16[nbsp ]000 complaints on disappearances; another has de-mined 90[nbsp ]% of the land; another has settled 24[nbsp ]000 land disputes, and another has intervened regarding all the 7[nbsp ]800 casualties. amazingly, free elections have been held, and the results were that 90[nbsp ]% of those elected were supporters of the ltte. how stupid can that be in a real democracy? (speaker was cut off by the president)
mr president, there is much that is worthy in this resolution, but there are also many omissions, as we have heard, in terms of the thematic issues. what about the victims of terrorism around the world? what about the christian communities subjected to so much violence and abuse around the world? what about the continuing african slave trade? so why do we keep picking on countries like sri lanka, as my colleague, mr deva, has already mentioned? there is a country that finally had the courage to deal with the terrorists which cost thousands of lives and almost brought the country to ruin. the government, it seems, has not been forgiven for its success; for ending the terrorist occupation of the north of sri lanka; for resettling 300[nbsp ]000 idps; for the construction of bridges, roads and schools; for re-establishing the rule of law in the north of the country; for its own process of accountability and reconciliation and for kick-starting the economy. i do not think for a moment that the government of sri lanka has got everything right. why not invite a distinguished outside judge to join the oversight of human rights investigation? this parliament should not continue to be the spokesman of political interest with a very distorted agenda.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr[nbsp ]president, the ecr group is not, in general, in favour of one common european asylum and migration policy. whilst there is a clear need for cooperation on these issues and certain minimum standards that must be respected, member states have different labour-market needs and different social policies. they should have some freedom to decide, for example, how many migrants from outside the eu they should accept and how many refugees they can resettle. however, my group and my delegation will vote in favour of the guillaume report on the asylum, migration and integration fund. we believe that, following negotiations with the council and the commission, we have a reasonable proposal which provides flexibility and will help with the management of migration flows. more than three-quarters of the money will be allocated to member states and their national programmes. the money can be spent on a range of issues, such as the integration of asylum seekers, but also on combating illegal immigration. i would particularly like to thank ms[nbsp ]guillaume and commissioner malmström for their work. we have worked hard to make sure that the various funds complement one another, in order to simplify implementation and reduce administrative burdens. my government in the uk decided to opt in to the fund in april[nbsp ]2012, and i am pleased that it did so. the uk is very active in this area, for example with resettlement and relocation programmes, and we are therefore the single biggest beneficiary of the fund. i am also glad to see priority being accorded within the internal security fund to the fight against cybercrime, but more must be done. in terms of getting meaningful cooperative action on this growing problem, the clock is ticking. we can also do more to safeguard the eu’s internal security, particularly in the area of law-enforcement-related information exchange. the overall point i would make is that the member states must want to buy into programmes such as the resettlement programme. they should not necessarily be mandatory objectives, and it was important that the voluntary nature of such activities be maintained and that member states be incentivised to take action in these important areas. we have succeeded to that extent.
mr[nbsp ]president, when the godfather of the european union, richard coudenhove-kalergi, published the plan for a united europe and the ethnocide of the peoples of europe, the encouragement of mass non-white immigration was central to the plot. since then, an unholy alliance of leftists, capitalists and zionist supremacists has schemed to promote immigration and miscegenation with the deliberate aim of breeding us out of existence in our homelands. as indigenous resistance to this human genetic-modification industry grows, the criminal elite seeks new ways to camouflage their project. first, their immigrant pawns were temporary guest workers; then it was a multiracial experiment; then they were refugees, and then the answer to a shrinking population. different excuses, different lies – and asylum is just another one. but the real aim stays the same: the biggest genocide in human history, the final solution to the christian european problem. this crime demands a new set of nuremberg trials, and you people will be in the dock. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – it is you who are shouting because, obviously, the truth hurts. yes, i will be seeking re-election. yes, i hope to return here to speak up for the indigenous europeans which the founder of this place has deliberately set out to wipe out – because that is a crime. i am telling the truth. i have a constructive suggestion to help those poor asylum seekers from africa. yes, make it clear they cannot come here so they do not try to cross the sea and drown in huge numbers. the best way for them is to get the banks off the backs of their countries so that they can live in peace in their countries and we europeans can live in peace in ours.
mr president, the digital world has brought great benefits, but the number of cyber-attacks has increased very dramatically, and our information and network security is only as strong as its weakest link, which is why the member states need to take responsibility and build up their national security structures and emergency response teams. i am glad that this report, however, means that those who have already created these do not need to recreate the wheel but can build on what they have. we also need to make sure that we do not put disproportionate burdens on businesses, which is why i welcome the focus on critical areas of infrastructure: health, transport, finance and energy. companies and organisations within these sectors from both the public and private sectors will need to share information about breaches. i am a bit concerned about the mandatory reporting, because we do not want a tick-box approach. if we are to have resilience in our security, we need full-scale behavioural change, and that needs trust and cooperation between the organisations concerned and the authorities they are sharing information with.
mr president, i was the shadow rapporteur for my group on this proposal, so i am pleased to be able to commend it to the house. i want to thank andreas schwab and the other committees, because i think it has been a very good example of cooperation. i just want to echo want you said, commissioner, about this proposal. i think we have looked at this in detail and have come up with what i regard as a workable solution which is moving policy forward into an entirely new area. we are taking the view that it is right not to be too ambitious to begin with, because we want this to work effectively. as a number of my colleagues – particularly ms[nbsp ]ford – have said, it is a change of culture that is needed. it is about trust between the operators involved. it is about making businesses understand that, if they have a serious problem such as a breach of security, other people in the network need to know. that information is really crucial. i also think that the security of that information – which could potentially cause a problem if it is immediately leaked to the public – has to be safeguarded. we have tabled and had amendments accepted in that regard. i think this is a really important and significant move forward, and i thank the commission for proposing it. i think parliament has improved it, and i am sure that it will get a very big majority tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, two years ago a group of british investors contacted me to express their concerns about international accounting standards and the standard-setting procedure. they felt that accounting standards had moved away from the concept of ‘true and fair’. they were concerned about the reluctance of standard-setters to address concerns over the loss of prudence. as elected representatives we have a duty to ask questions where appropriate and to investigate whether faulty accounting standards played a role in the financial crisis. as we sought answers, it became clear that there were valid concerns about the governance of these bodies. is it right for the eu to outsource standard-setting to what is in effect a private-sector body, funded by taxpayer’s money? as a result of pressure from meps across the political spectrum – many of whom are in this house tonight – we saw the maystadt report leading to reform of the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag). now we need a similar review of the international financial reporting standards foundation (ifrs) and the international accounting standards board (iasb), to decide whether these bodies are best suited to ensuring that accounting standards are fit for purpose and determining whether they are showing value for money.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to start off by congratulating our rapporteur for all her hard work and for persevering with the trilogue negotiations, and also to put on record how much i have enjoyed working with barbara weiler. this might be your last report, barbara, but your legacy will live on, as will malcolm harbour’s, and i think tonight’s report on common chargers is particularly significant. this year, for the first time ever, mobile internet usage has exceeded internet usage on desktop computers. currently over 500 million mobile phones are being used in the eu, and this number is growing constantly. this creates risks of interference between various products, and therefore an efficient use of radio spectrum is essential. i welcome the introduction of a common charger, which will simplify the use of radio equipment as well as reducing unnecessary waste and cost to consumers. each year, incredibly, the eu throws away 6[nbsp ]000 tonnes of mobile phone chargers, and when i think about this i wonder how much we – parliament and the offices that many of us use – are contributing to that waste, and not from our own choice. not only is this inconvenient, wasteful and completely unnecessary, it does not suit the needs of consumers of today who seek a faster and better use of technology. by reducing the number of obsolete phone accessories we will be able to cut down on the amount of electronic waste. therefore this report is a success not only for the single market and consumers but also for cutting waste and protecting the environment. it may be, as mr van de camp said, that there are not very many people in the chamber this evening, but the fact is that, although this report may be last on the agenda, its significance is so important and your legacy, barbara, lives on.
mr president, as the shadow rapporteur for ms weiler and the committee chairman who chaired the trilogues, i just want to add my very warm congratulations to her. like me, she was a founder member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), and we have worked together on many dossiers. i am really pleased that we have been able to have this debate, even though – as mr van de camp pointed out – it is late at night. when we started work on this dossier, i do not think that any of us realised the amount of change that we actually needed to make it into a really good proposal. i think this is a really clear example of the important work that the imco committee does – as a number of colleagues have said – perhaps below the radar. you have heard from many members who have spoken this evening and that, in itself, is an indication of the engagement of our members with this type of work. we have made some significant advances in such things as mobile chargers, but also in the construction of the whole directive. i particularly want to thank the commission, and your colleagues in dg enterprise, for working with us to make a number of these changes, and indeed perhaps reversing some of their previous ideas about it. the council also helped us. for my part, i was particularly pleased that the commission has agreed to work to include all the details on the display screen of these mobile devices. this seems to me to be an important technical advance, which we had to fight for, and i am very pleased that mrs[nbsp ]weiler supported me in that. so i will just say – because this will be her last appearance here, although we will be back in action in april – that you can see this evening why it is such a pleasure to be able to chair such an engaged, interesting and knowledgeable group of people.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, first of all i think it is a bit unfair to attack commissioner damanaki for not being here. she told the conference of presidents that she had to be in thessaloniki at the international fishing capacity conference. the conference of presidents, if anyone, should be the ones that we attack. they could have been more flexible in scheduling this debate on a day that she would be here. i agree with pat the cope gallagher: we have now achieved a breakthrough agreement. i also think that it is overly generous to give 12.6[nbsp ]% of the tac to the faroes and set aside 15.6[nbsp ]% for iceland and russia in the hope that they will join this coastal states agreement later. the only reason we have managed to do this is because ices tells us that the spawning stock biomass has increased dramatically and we now have a 1.2 million tonne tac, which is double what it was four years ago. that might not be sustainable, and then we could suffer. however, in the meantime it is good news and i congratulate everyone.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his interesting comments. may i suggest that this budget should be built around two principles, the first of which is that it should show solidarity with the member states. this will be year two of the multiannual financial framework. it was entirely right that the mff should reflect the difficulties and disciplines being experienced by member state governments, therefore it is important that funding be strictly limited throughout this period. for that reason, my second principle is to stress the critical importance of directing spending to where it will most effectively and accurately address the major problems in the eu and, at the same time, deliver best value for money. jobs, particularly for the young, are a pressing urgency. youth unemployment initiatives, education programmes and, particularly, erasmus need to be fully supported – as economic development also needs to be supported, through research and development, the digital economy and infrastructure. lastly, the budget can be a valuable tool for supporting and aiding european economic recovery. structural and investment funding, if used wisely, can be very effective in supporting economic growth in the weaker sectors of the economy. one problem that is a cause of concern, however, is that the demand for humanitarian aid and unexpected demands, such as ukraine, will all put additional pressures on this budget. therefore, i would urge the commission to bring forward its proposals and to make them disciplined and realistic. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr ashworth, first of all i should like to thank you for accepting my question. your party, the british conservative party, is a vociferous supporter of – it may even be said to be a cheerleader for – the entry of turkey into the european union. turkey is getting pre-accession funding of about eur[nbsp ]900 million a year, which is planned to continue for another six years. how does your party’s support for turkey sit alongside your two principles of limited funding and value for money? i look forward to your answer.
blue-card answer. – it is important that in these difficult times, particularly with the eastern border, we take a particularly enlightened and wise view of the way that we invest. my party does support the ultimate accession of turkey to the european union, but there is by no means a promise that that country would do so immediately. it has a long and difficult transition period, and my party is prepared to support it on that road to joining the european union, as it would indeed with other nations which are prepared to share the same values and aspirations as the rest of the eu.
madam president, it is that time of the year again when we put forward our wishes regarding what the eu budget should be spent on. headlines like ‘investing in research and innovation’, ‘strengthening eu industry’ or ‘job creation’ are repeated year after year. we are supposed to have been investing in those areas for the last decade. it has made no difference, as the crisis has demonstrated, and yet the commission keeps asking for more money. this is in spite of the fact that the auditors say that the level of irregularities has increased. as i see it, the commission has totally failed to demonstrate any efficiency in controlling taxpayers’ money. would anybody in their right mind invest in such a badly-run organisation? the answer would certainly be no. so why do we keep asking for more money from taxpayers? it is this parliament’s role to call the commission to account and say ‘no’ to business as usual.
madam president, i am just going to address one item in the budget, and that is the instrument for pre-accession funding. in seven years from 2014, the european union has budgeted over eur[nbsp ]14 billion to be paid to countries who are not eu member states. these countries get the money because they are candidate countries. they are a former yugoslav republic, iceland, montenegro, and the one that gets the most money: turkey. and turkey especially will cost us even more in cohesion funds should it become a member state. bizarrely, the establishment parties in the uk are all cheerleaders for turkey to join the european union. and let me be crystal clear: any political party that supports, let alone vociferously supports, turkey’s candidacy can have no credibility when it comes to controlling, let alone cutting, the vast and wasteful eu budget.
rapporteur. - madam president, we are discussing a very important report this morning, and i would like to start by briefly sharing with you a story. imagine a completely underdeveloped nation with nothing in it, peopled by millions of uneducated refugees with no assets, money or available donor funds, without bank accounts, law courts, hospitals or schools – absolutely nothing. a nation peopled by people who are poorly educated. and within a span of 120[nbsp ]years, that nation becomes and transforms itself into the richest, most technologically-advanced country in the world. how did a country without world bank, imf or eu aid turn itself from an empty land into the richest country in the world? that is the story of development, and we have forgotten it. how did they do it? they understood how to form capital. the legal property system transformed natural assets – land, houses, small businesses – into capital. the asset potential can be unlocked, forming investments, shareholdings, equity, debentures, mortgages, insurance. this understanding made what we now call the united states of america the richest country in the world. but around the world where we try and help poor developing countries, when we examine their structures, they do not have any of these capabilities that can turn assets into securitisable capital, and when we look at the millions and millions of businesses that are lining the streets of developing countries as we go from the airport to the capital city, or hundreds of thousands of slums, all those are unregistered, non-legal and not transferable, not asset-realisable, and i am very glad that the european commissioner for budgets is sitting here listening to this, because he will understand this more than anybody in the commission. today 1.2 billion people occupy property which they do not hold formal rights to, or live without permanent homes. some 90[nbsp ]% of the land in africa alone is unregistered. the total value of the extra-legal unregistered wealth in developing countries amounts to over usd[nbsp ]10 trillion: 93 times larger than the total of all the foreign aid to developing countries that we have given over the past 30[nbsp ]years. this amount is larger than the capital of the new york stock exchange, the london stock exchange, the frankfurt stock exchange and the tokyo stock exchange, and there it is, lying unregistered and unusable – over usd[nbsp ]10 trillion. what i am asking now is for us to be able to prepare a way of turning those unregistered assets into registerable assets so that those people themselves can realise the potential of the value of the land and the businesses that they have. in order to do that, we have to assist in a very small way in helping them to register land, to get surveyors and people with legal qualifications to understand how to demark, distribute, value and register the land, and how to register businesses. for example, it takes more than 300[nbsp ]days to register a business in peru. it takes over 180[nbsp ]days to open a bank account in burkina faso. these are the impediments that have been created in turning assets into wealth. the developing countries, particularly the countries of africa, are sitting on enormous wealth, and yet it is unrecognisable and untappable. this report addresses that problem and asks us to change it so that these people will have poverty eliminated by the creation of wealth. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
blue-card answer. – i want to thank my colleague for asking that question, which is indeed a very good question. yes indeed, the sun shines brightest in the poorest parts of the world, and yet they are not harnessing that energy that comes from the sun. water flows most rapidly downstream of rivers, and mini-hydros could be used to generate electricity. however, nothing of that kind is happening. it is so obvious that there are certain lacunae in the way we are thinking. what we have to do is to create a climate where a village could buy and set up a small mini-hydro. it needs to be registered as a company. the villagers would own it and then generate electricity that they could sell among themselves and to the next village. it is simple. this would have happened in belgium, france and the united states, but it does not happen in africa. why? because they do not have the infrastructure.
mr president, the idea has got around that rights of residence and migration are some integral part of the eu’s competence. in fact, before the tampere summit in 1998, it was limited in a very restricted way to free movement of labour. all these rights that we now take for granted, about reciprocal welfare entitlements and common immigration policy, are a very recent addition to the acquis. i am more in favour of controlled legal migration than a number of members of my party are. i see benefits to a country that can harness the energy and enterprise of those who are prepared to cross half the world and make new lives. but the social compact works on the basis that if i am asking my constituents to admit a measure of net inward migration, they have to believe, in turn, that we are in control of who comes in and in what numbers – and that is the sense that they have lost as a result of eu treaties. the reason why many in this house were so tetchy and irritable in the aftermath of the recent vote on this subject in switzerland is that they know very well that their own electorates would have made exactly the same decision.
in writing. - ukipʼs position is against. against any measures which seek to increase spending and which are likely to have the effect of yet further simplifying the business of getting into the eu.
in writing. - the purpose of the fund is to contribute to the effective management of migration flows in the european union and to support legal migration to the european union in line with the economic and social needs of member states. it also deals with refugees, fair return strategies and integration. it is an important contribution to the improvement of the overall eu policy in the field of migration and asylum. i recently published a study on what migration means for wales and i was pleased to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in the uk, issues relating to asylum and migration are increasingly discussed in reactionary and, at times, racist terms. the scottish government is clear that scotland should have a humane immigration policy based on scotland’s needs. this will only come about with independence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will help vulnerable aslylum seekers and migrants who really need economic and social help. it is important we work on this issue together and cooperate effectively at eu level. this fund will help us do this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this first reading agreement relating to the common european asylum system, established under the mff. this report promotes the effective integration of third-country nationals and enhancement of fair and effective return strategies. i agree with parliament’s proposals to involve ngos and organisations in implementing and supervising the fund and believe that there should be a fair and transparent allocation of resources among the fundʼs many different objectives.
in writing. - i voted against the karas/hoang ngoc report on the role and operations of the troika with regard to the euro area programme countries because it wants to create an eu european monetary fund which i would consider to be a disaster for the taxpayers of the member states.
in writing. - i supported this report which assesses the functioning of the troika in four countries: greece, portugal, ireland and cyprus. the report criticises the troika for having failed to reduce debt levels, and exacerbated social problems such as increased inequality and poverty, and highlights that a one-size-fits-all approach has negative consequences for those countries concerned. the report also highlights the lack of democratic accountability and recommends the phasing out of the troika.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the economic and financial crisis highlighted the fragility of public finances in several member states. the economic adjustment programmes adopted have had a significant impact on employment and poverty levels. all the programmes, although formally signed by the commission, were designed jointly by the imf, the eurogroup, the european central bank, the commission and the member states to be bailed out. the conditionality imposed in return for the financial assistance has threatened the eu’s social objectives and the europe 2020 strategy. this report calls for an analysis of the social and economic consequences, as well as the impact on human rights, to ensure full compliance with the european social charter and with the ilo’s core conventions; the welsh economy has also suffered due to cuts in public spending.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which criticises the troika reforms in ireland, greece, portugal and spain. i support recommendations to help countries meet the 2020 objectives in the area of social and employment issues and also believe that an end should be brought to the troika recovery programme and a social and job recovery plan should be put in its place. i echo calls for more emphasis to be put on supporting smes and getting banks to give credit to these businesses. i am disappointed that tory meps did not support particular assistance to those most affected by cuts and young people suffering as a result of in-work poverty.
in writing. - ukipʼs position is against. against any measures which seek to increase spending and which are likely to have the effect of yet further simplifying the business of getting into the eu.
in writing. - this report lays down rules for two funds established under the mff: the asylum, integration and migration fund and the internal security fund. i welcome agreements reached in negotiations to have a mid-term review on all home affairs funds, establishing a good reporting mechanism with the commission on national programmes and their implementation and ensuring that the national partnerships established to implement the national programmes include involvement from all levels of government.
in writing. - i voted against this report. i support the general objective to help ensure a high level of security in the european union through preventing and combating cross-border and organised crime including terrorism, and improving coordination and cooperation between law enforcement authorities of member states and other countries, as well as managing security-related risks and crisis, and preparing against terrorist attacks and other security related incidents. however, i did not agree with the way in which the budget was allocated. this is an important issue in light of the calls for the devolution of policing to wales.
in writing. - the scottish parliament was only one of a number around europe which issued a yellow card on this proposal in relation to it running contrary to subsidiarity. a european public prosecutor could potentially undermine long-standing structures in the member states such as scotland’s office of the lord advocate. i accordingly voted against this proposal.
in writing. - although the uk government has decided not to opt in to the internal security fund on police cooperation, i supported the report for a number of reasons particular to my constituency. the programme commits eur[nbsp ]1 billion in spending on police cooperation, preventing and combating crime, and crisis management for the 2014-2020 period. combating cross-border crime has been a significant challenge for the police service of northern ireland and an garda síochána in the republic of ireland. putting history aside, both police authorities have increased their levels of cooperation significantly in recent years to combat the threat of dissident republican terrorism. any eu assistance to improve and fund this great work should be warmly welcomed. i am also particularly pleased to see that the financial instrument includes measures for the protection and support of witnesses and victims of crime and of terrorism. in northern ireland, we have singularly failed the victims of terrorism during our conflict, and i consider it our prerogative to ensure their needs and concerns are adequately catered for. i would not claim the internal security fund to be a panacea, but i am pleased to see eu recognition of the needs of victims of terrorism.
in writing. - i welcome this first reading agreement which concerns one part of the internal security fund, agreed under the mff. it covers police cooperation, preventing and combating crime, and crisis management. i welcome calls for further cooperation between law enforcement authorities and national authorities of member states. furthermore i welcome the need for training schemes to include obligations relating to respect for fundamental rights and for special attention to be given to vulnerable persons.
in writing. - our position is against. against any measures which seek to increase spending and which are likely to have the effect of yet further simplifying the business of getting into the eu.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the funding has been changed and there is more focus on security, the fight against illegal migration, surveillance and strong control of borders. it is not possible to draw up a single legislative proposal for an internal security fund because the uk and ireland are not fully part of the borders and visa policy. this is an important issue in light of the calls for the devolution of policing to wales.
in writing. - i support this first reading agreement concerning one part of the internal security fund agreed under the mff. this report, which covers the external borders and visa element of the fund, aims to ensure an integrated approach to issues arising from migration pressures and the security of the external borders of the eu. i welcome key elements in the report such as training border guards in accordance with fundamental rights requirements and the insistence on the need for a mid-term review of the fund.
in writing. - network security is of increasing importance as more transactions are carried out electronically. i felt that this report struck an appropriate balance and accordingly i voted in favour.
in writing. - i support this report which calls for a high common level of network and information security across the eu that improves the security of the internet and private networks. i welcome parliament’s position, which states that the directive should focus on key areas such energy, transport, health and the financial sector. furthermore, i welcome calls to allow greater flexibility regarding security requirements and incident notification.
in writing. - ukipʼs position is against. it continues funding for european supervisory authorities to give the eu influence in discussions aimed at producing global accounting standards.
in writing. - like many citizens in the eu, i have over the years collected countless mobile phone chargers, none of which are compatible with one another. whilst today’s vote will not require an immediate change, i hope that the industry can work together to find a common standard.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it includes essential health and safety requirements and electromagnetic compatibility, which will keep consumers and workers safer. it will also help reduce avoidance and make the experience better for consumers.
in writing. - the number of mobile devices and wireless applications has grown enormously in recent years. this creates risks of interference between the various products. therefore an efficient use of the radio spectrum is essential. furthermore the introduction of the common charger will simplify the use of radio equipment as well as be highly beneficial to consumers. each year, incredibly the eu throws away 6[nbsp ]000 tonnes of mobile phone rechargers. therefore i voted in favour of this report because not only is it a success for the single market and consumers but for cutting waste and for protecting the environment too.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support this report, which will greatly improve the situation regarding mobile phone chargers for consumers. labour meps backed the creation of a europe-wide common phone charger, which will make life easier for consumers and cut electrical waste. around six thousand tonnes of mobile phone chargers are thrown away every year in the eu. i am pleased that these chargers will come into use over the next few years and by 2017 manufacturers will all have to follow the same standard. i am however, disappointed that tory meps voted against the proposal, which will save consumers money and will help save the environment.
in writing. - i voted against the gardiazabal rubial report on the general guidelines for the 2015 budget – section iii. the guidelines as always seek to increase the eu budget and turn a blind eye to the continuing high level of irregularities in the budget. in 2012 these were 4.8% of the budget. in addition the court of auditors has not approved the eu books for the nineteenth consecutive year. the eu budget exists to make the eu relevant to the citizens of member states but in the light of the eu’s continuing role in the financial crisis, even it is not enough to make the citizens want to continue with the project.
in writing. - this report highlights the needs for an eu budget that makes sure spending on youth unemployment is a top priority. i welcome observations that spending on cohesion policy has been vital for regions across europe, and we have seen the impact this money has had on projects in wales. i also agree that spending on the digital agenda, renewable energy and ict is extremely important. i was however, not able to give my full backing to the report as it stands due to certain elements regarding the level of payments in the eu budget. i believe that payment levels need to be kept under strict control and that sound financial management is key to a responsible eu budget.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. makes recommendations on how to make the eu more loved by everyone, make it more ‘democratic’ and create utopia.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon gave this house important new powers which enhance the democratic legitimacy to the eu. there are however aspects of this report of which i am wary; for example i do not consider that an enhanced role for european political parties in the selection of the commission will resonate with our citizens. i accordingly abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, although there were some problematic paragraphs, which i did not support, overall it was a good exercise in the parliament reflecting over the monumental changes that have been brought about since the treaty of lisbon was signed. it also considered the impact of lisbon on the up and coming european elections.
mr president, one of the fundamental stores of wealth in the world, of course, is property. often we see that people who have a piece of land to call their own are far better able to build sustainable livelihoods than those permanently beholden to often unscrupulous landlords. nowhere is this more important and apparent than in parts of the developing world, where ordinary people have been effectively disenfranchised by the exploitative actions of those who have sought to control their land and resources – sometimes unfairly – or been rendered dependent on the often well-intentioned but frequently disempowering networks of developmental aid from the eu and other donors. i am, therefore, very happy to endorse my conservative colleague nirj deva’s report on the role of property and wealth creation in eradicating poverty and fostering good development. we must focus more attention on the surveying, registration and management of land and the formalisation of property rights everywhere around the globe, in order to facilitate more secure business networks and, ultimately, lasting prosperity, unshackled from the ambivalent structures of international aid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which aims to boost private property rights in order to create a catalyst for economic growth in developing countries. i am pleased that a number of amendments were adopted to alter the report as it stood and welcome wording which highlights the importance of land rights as well as formal property rights. the emphasis should be on helping all people to secure land rights, not just the privileged few.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because development is a very important field of the work of the eu externally and it is vital that all member states and eu institutions work effectively together on it. i supported the report’s stance that it is bad that the commission has only published a working document on this topic.
in writing. - policy coherence for development has been a key policy-making tool since it was first introduced in 2006. the purpose of the pcd is to prevent inconsistencies arising from eu policies and to avoid repercussions in developing countries. i agree with remarks in the report which deplore the absence of a communication from the commission this year.
mr president, the last few months in ukraine have thrown into sharp relief the contrast between that country and its former overlord, russia. while ukraine’s leader fell after months of daily protests, russia has now effectively banned all forms of public dissent, as its leader, putin, fears the prospects for opposition and democratic defeat more than anything else. it is certainly no coincidence that the bolotnaya square sentences were announced the very day after the end of the sochi olympics. it is clear that putin’s much-vaunted prisoner amnesty was simply window dressing to convince the world of russia’s democratic credentials. so i join my colleagues in the ecr in condemning the harsh and disproportionate sentences handed down to the seven defendants. we call on the authorities to release them without delay. people in russia and everywhere else must be allowed to express their views in public without fear of arrest and imprisonment, no matter how much the president, mr putin, may disagree with them.
author. - mr[nbsp ]president, ugandan president yoweri museveni’s recent decision to enact harsh anti-gay legislation is profoundly disappointing. among the most egregious clauses is the prescription of life imprisonment for the so-called crime of aggravated homosexuality. together with president jonathan’s recent tightening of lgbt laws in nigeria, these combined actions form a depressive narrative of discrimination against ordinary people whose only crime is to feel attraction to someone of their own sex. i reject the charge that homosexuality is somehow a colonial import. this matter is clearly a sensitive one, so we must be careful in our response not to alienate these governments and deter dialogue. however, considering suspension from the cotonou agreement, as well as the redirection of eu aid towards ngos rather than central government, must be on the agenda as we demonstrate our commitment to promoting human rights for all.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, nigeria and uganda have both adopted laws that increasingly criminalise homosexuality, and there are talks about similar issues in other member states. this situation has been building up for a number of years, and now it is becoming a reality. many will suspect, of course, that these laws are put in place by political leaders who want to direct attention away from real economic and social problems in their country. therefore, the eu cannot remain silent on this. we must show that we are serious about human rights. so the question is: what can the european union do? i believe the solution must come from the european union and not from isolated, individual member states. there will be some opportunities in the near future where we could try to address this problem, in addition to launching consultations on the agreement. there is the acp-eu jpa over the next few days – as you mentioned, mr[nbsp ]president, earlier today – and we will take that opportunity to raise the issue there. there is, moreover, a political dialogue on human rights scheduled with uganda for 28[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014, and there is also the eu-africa summit on 2[nbsp ]and[nbsp ]3 april[nbsp ]2014. these are all opportunities to raise this issue. someone also raised the question of suspending aid payments to some of these countries, but a more preferable option would be – as others said – to redirect money more towards ngos, particularly those which deal with health and education. i believe the eu should also urge the african union to take up the issue and show some leadership, in order to make sure that this issue does not spread right across the region. people, wherever they are in this world, deserve human rights and equal rights.
author. - mr[nbsp ]president, human trafficking is a global scourge, but in the sinai peninsula we are witnessing a concentration of human misery, which unhappily also coincides with a huge increase in jihadi terrorism in the region, partly as a result of the instability in egypt. the egyptian government must do its utmost now to identify, rescue and support the suspected victims of human trafficking and allow the un highcommissioner for refugees (unhcr) full access to migrants and asylum seekers who are arrested. the apparent breakdown of law and order and security in sinai allows extremist groups to proliferate and flourish. these problems must therefore be tackled in tandem with human rights and the rule of law across the entire region. we must also encourage increased dialogue and cooperation among the middle eastern and north african countries generally and offer political and financial assistance to help them combat terrorism, nurture the necessary development and alleviate the suffering of these modern-day victims of what amounts to a form of slavery.
rapporteur. - mr president, first of all thank you to all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent support and cooperation. together we have been able to negotiate a great deal for parliament. i also want to thank the lithuanian presidency for the huge amount of work it did to deliver a compromise in time, and to the commission for coming forward with a good proposal and being so helpful in our discussions. i want to start with why i first got involved with this legislation. three years ago i went to a childhood brain tumour centre in nottingham. there i met children and teenagers suffering from rare cancers, including a young man called sam white. they told me that too often no treatment existed for their conditions, they had to use drugs that had not been tested in children or, for some, a clinical trial might be their only hope of survival. for rare diseases often there are not enough patients in one country to make a clinical trial viable, which makes working together across europe essential. at the moment it is just too difficult and expensive. this new regulation, harmonising rules across the eu, creating a single application portal and a clear system for cooperation between member states, would radically change that. sadly, sam white passed away last september but his work goes on. he was a great inspiration and i hope that what we have managed to achieve will help to improve life for others and treatment for others in sam’s situation, and push up survival rates for childhood cancers and rare diseases. but we have to make sure that all trials contribute towards better medicine. currently only half of clinical trials are published and positive results are more likely to be published than negative results. this can give a biased picture about the safety and efficacy of medicines and can lead to unnecessary or even dangerous trials being repeated. so the transparency measures this law will put in place are a huge step forward. all trials – positive, negative or inconclusive – will need to upload a summary of results to a publicly accessible database one year after completion and, once marketing authorisation is applied for, the full clinical study reports will be uploaded. we also have a clear statement that these reports should not be seen as commercially confidential and i hope that will support the ema in their quest to publish the data they already hold. we should all be proud that the eu will now be leading the way globally in clinical trial transparency, which is good for patient safety, good for scientific progress and good for public trust in medicines. but we have to ensure that clinical trials take place here in europe. they provide opportunities for new treatments, as well as supporting thousands of skilled research jobs. we know that since 2007 clinical trials carried out in the eu have dropped by 25%. i hope this regulation will reverse that trend. by facilitating cross-border trials we can cut unnecessary bureaucracy; with clear and forcible timelines we provide certainty to companies and academics; and by introducing the concept of low-intervention trials we make simple, less risky trials much less burdensome to conduct. but at the heart of the legislation is patient protection. we have made it clear that ethics committees will always be involved in assessing clinical trials and have the power to stop them going ahead. we also have a comprehensive text on protecting vulnerable populations and ensuring that patients are fully informed before participating in a trial. of course, we are voting on a compromise and there are areas where i would have liked to have gone further. i would have liked even more patient involvement and shorter approval times but i understand that member states had strong views on these issues and overall i think we have reached an excellent compromise. once again, thank you to everyone who has helped us get to this stage and i hope the whole parliament can give the regulation their support today.
rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers who have contributed. our prime concern, as commissioner borg said, is the patient; it has got to be the patient. this regulation answers many questions. we have less bureaucracy, with a single portal and cross-border trials, for which you only need make one application instead of several. that will make everything much easier and much quicker, while keeping patients’ safety at the heart of things. this will also see new and better medicines being brought forward, and that is what is important in this regulation. we have also got increased transparency, and all the clinical trial reports and data will be published, even for unsuccessful trials. that is really important. it is good for science, it is good for patients’ safety and it is good for public trust. i want to say a little bit about the support that we have had from everybody. i cannot remember dealing with any legislation in this parliament where we have had so much cooperation and goodwill. we have had the support of the rapporteurs, who have worked very closely together, and the support of the commission and the council. let us also mention the secretariat of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, who did a fantastic job too. we have achieved a really good deal. we have worked with a strong spirit of cooperation and understanding. i wish that all legislation could be dealt with in that way.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr president, it gives me great pleasure as the rapporteur for the opinion of my committee to support strongly the work of ms[nbsp ]del castillo and my committee has in particular been exclusively responsible for reforms to the issues around users’ rights. i have to say to the commissioner that we are very keen to improve users’ rights, but we did reject the way in which she did it. i think that we have come up with a much better solution, which is to incorporate those reforms into changes to the existing directive for which my committee was responsible. we could not see any logic in having an overriding regulation and we think our proposal would be much better for consumers. in the short time i have available – and i think it is rather unfair for committees like mine in enhanced cooperation to get only one minute compared to five for the rapporteur – but very quickly on data speeds: consumers will have better information and a right to that. if their expectations are not met, they will be able to have measures to get compensation for the contracts if there is a discrepancy. they will be able to have predefined financial limits for their data. we have attacked 112 issues. we will have better provisions for independent price comparison ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this package does have some good parts – for example, removing excessive roaming charges will be very popular with some consumers – but it potentially has some very bad parts. i am all for a free, open internet. i know why we must not block services in general, but there are some services that need to be blocked. in my region we are home to the internet watch foundation. this makes sure that child pornography is taken off the internet and as a result serious crimes are prevented. the amendments tabled by the left, the greens and the liberals – particularly amendment 243 – would stop them being able to do this. this is irresponsible and dangerous, and that amendment must not be allowed to go through.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we would do well to remember that telecoms were created by private individuals like bell and marconi. the world wide web was invented by tim berners-lee and presented by him as a great gift to society at large. these developments were not invented by governments or regulators, still less by the european institutions. given that the internet is global, there is a clear need for a degree of mutual recognition and regulatory convergence but there is no need for massive regulatory interference from brussels. at a time when our liberal colleague sir graham watson is proposing an eu propaganda programme funded by taxpayers’ money, there are credible fears that eu control of the internet will lead to control of content, if not downright censorship. even the british and german governments have recognised the dangers inherent in this excessively complex proposal and have called for a much simpler and more streamlined approach. they are right to do so. if the answer is more heavy-handed eu regulation, then we are asking the wrong question.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this programme has measures which i and my group supported. the procedural rights package, the european investigation order, the schengen governance package, europol and the anti-money laundering directive are all important steps in protecting the rights and safety of eu citizens across europe. but sadly this parliament has also found itself repeatedly sidetracked by self-appointed committees, investigations and own-initiative activity. so in the past five years my opinion of this programme has not changed. i still believe that we should do less but do it better. this review should have been about increasing cooperation and efficiency and ensuring consolidation and compliance throughout the eu with existing measures, bringing much needed trust in each otherʼs judicial systems. instead it buckles under the weight of its own expectations. rather than being an exercise in stocktaking this has instead become another exercise in stockpiling. i am afraid therefore that i and my group will not be able to support this.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the stockholm programme includes the objective of constructing an eu system of criminal law. it is laughable that the eu should presume to create an area of so-called freedom, security and justice in england. the english already did that for themselves over the last 800 years and it served as a model for much of the civilised world. that system is now being subverted because of our subordination to an inferior continental system. this report euphemistically refers to the various so-called imbalances within the emerging eu system. these imbalances are caused by the idiotic doctrine of mutual recognition which states that all eu member statesʼ police, judicial and penal systems are of equal value. this is absolute nonsense and is causing a growing number of cases of gross injustice. to protect ourselves, britain must leave the european union. and to bring that day forward the british can vote ukip on 22[nbsp ]may.
mr president, i apologise in advance to the house but as we speak the eu-africa summit is meeting and some members of this house have a message.
madam president, nothing can excuse president putin’s return to neo-soviet revanchist irredentist nationalism. ukraine has been the victim of naked aggression and let us not forget the thousands of russian troops on its eastern borders still very capable of launching an invasion if putin so desires it. we should therefore do everything we can in the eu to help ukraine. the signing of parts of the association agreement was a good first step but we now need urgently to ratify and implement the dcfta provisions in a temporary and asymmetric form to help ukraine’s economy. ukraine needs to know that it can depend immediately on europe to offer a stable and receptive free market for its exports of goods in the face of constant russian intimidation. to that end, while russia continues its aggression the initial sanctions must only be the beginning. the eu should, for instance, consider suspending the facilitated transit arrangements with kaliningrad oblast permitting easy access to and from the rest of russia via lithuania. what putin wants more than anything is to be respected and feared on the world’s stage. we in the free world will do neither.
mr president, when i was european commission chief accountant back in 2002, i pointed out huge flaws in the accounting systems. today it is still just as bad – or even worse – than it was back then. yet meps will grant discharge to the budget, despite a hole of eur[nbsp ]6.2 billion in the accounts. it is now clear to me that the discharge procedure is a pantomime. there is no longer proper scrutiny or any holding to account for taxpayers’ money by meps. what an anomaly! those who approve the budget are the same voices asking for budget increases, year after year, for the same member states they blame for the irregularities. we should instead be cutting the eu budget by a minimum of the same level of the error. in may, taxpayers should call to account all the meps who approve of this ludicrous situation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, who knows, this could be my last speech in this parliament and i am damned if i am going to make it supporting a deal which betrays europe, which is simply the response to threats from china and some others and leaves us looking weak. we have been told that airbus will be threatened even though airbus has more than five thousand planes on its order books. we have an emissions trading scheme which has been introduced by the commission which works, which can demonstrate leadership and which we should be supporting. we have been told, of course, that icao – of course we want a global deal – has been talking of having a market-based mechanism since 2001, and what is the betting it will actually have one in 2020? it is about as much chance as we will start seeing fairies at the bottom of the garden, i suspect. this deal is weak, weak, weak! the council has completely let us down. i think we look to paris next year. the reality is that we are not going to get the global agreement that some of us would like: the level playing field. we are going to have to take initiatives on a national and a regional basis and this is exactly the sort of initiative we should be taking. it sets a good example for the whole world. it shows european leadership and to be supporting this deal for this council, this let-down, is absolutely shameful.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, from the beginning the inclusion of aviation in the european system was ill-conceived and it was a stupid idea. it was nothing more than a tax on industry – an industry that supports over five million jobs across europe – and also it would not save a single ounce of co2. some of our largest trading partners have quite rightly shown their determination not to be ruled by the european union and this has put large aircraft orders amounting to billions of dollars in jeopardy, threatening much-needed investment and jobs. one mitigates environmental impact by advances in technology, implementing the single european sky and building capacity. while some in this house may feel that eu legislation must not be dictated to by third countries, they should remember that we are global traders and we are not actually global dictators. we must work with international partners constructively. in conclusion, we will support the position tomorrow – under duress i have to say – because the original regulation is even worse. my message to the commission is this: commission, you came across as arrogant. we have no confidence in you. your approach was naive and it was patronising. next time you come up with another stupid idea we think you should think about it a bit more thoughtfully – and about the impact – before you actually come to this house. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i wonder if the honourable lady would tell us whether she accepts that climate change presents a real threat to humanity, as her government believes. if she does, exactly what measures does she think the european union should be taking to combat global warming?
blue-card answer. – there are many measures already in place on global warming. we are talking specifically about the inclusion of aviation and we are looking at practical ways forward for mitigating the impact. i have already outlined that the advances in technology, the introduction of the single european sky, are all issues that we cover in this parliament; they are the way forward, building capacity. what we have come up with here – and it has gone on for seven years – has left the european union with no decent reputation outside of europe because of the way this has been handled. you know exactly what i am talking about, chris, and the fact that you have taken a different position to the leader of your party is entirely up to you. but let us just get real, shall we, in the real world?
mr president, the house is aware of the continued harassment of my constituents in gibraltar by the spanish authorities. their right to free movement is frustrated on a daily basis by excessive and unjustifiable border controls, leading to queues at the border which are regularly of two or three hours’ duration. spain is now trying to exclude gibraltar from cooperation in air traffic control. an amendment to the single european sky package last month, tabled by spain’s partido popular, would do precisely that. but if a tax from land and air were not enough, spain now also harasses my constituency by sea. last night there were four incursions into british gibraltar territorial waters, including by a spanish naval patrol boat, a guardia civil patrol boat and a survey vessel. these are class a incursions – major breaches of the un convention on the law of the sea, article 19. there have been almost 400 such incursions this year. i trust that the house will join with me in condemning such hostile acts and in showing solidarity with the eu citizens of gibraltar, who seek nothing more than the freedom to go about their legitimate business.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my concern is with eu defence policy. would the high representative agree that the crisis over russia’s land grab in ukraine underlines the need for nato solidarity and revitalisation, while the eu should focus on its financial and economic crisis management instruments? would she also agree, as further evidence that the european union should stop its military posturing, that the latest eu csdp mission in the central african republic has failed to generate any serious support from european countries other than france, and that the conclusion from this is also that the eu should stop trying to play soldiers? the united states is being misled into thinking that the way to get european allies to share more of the defence burden is by involving the eu. the reality is that it will merely lead to a weakened, and increasingly binary, alliance. lady ashton, i would just like to say, as this will be your last meeting, that i will miss having the opportunity to spar with you and i wish you well for the future. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – brigadier van orden, in turkey the akp government puts journalists in prison, blocks the internet and interferes with the judiciary, yet the akp party has recently joined your pan-european party, the aecr. i have to ask you, as a prominent member of the aecr, whether you support the values of the akp party in turkey.
blue-card answer. – that has absolutely nothing to do with the debate in hand. if you are asking me whether i think it is important that turkey, as a strong nato ally, should play a full part in the nato alliance, then i would agree completely. the other business is not for this discussion. it is for discussion elsewhere.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i am going to focus on paragraph 46 of the report. this says, and i quote, ‘an eu seat in an enlarged un security council remains a central, long-term goal of the european union’. later, it calls for – and i quote again – ‘the introduction of new members of the un security council and reform of the un security council’s decision-making towards the possible use of a super-qualified majority’. in the european union, the united kingdom has very little influence. we have just 8.24[nbsp ]% of the weighted votes in the council of ministers, less than 10[nbsp ]% of meps and the ability to appoint just one of 28 commissioners. however, the uk is represented in its own right in international organisations. perhaps the most significant is the uk’s permanent seat on the un security council and the veto that goes with it. this report, and the thinking behind it, puts at risk the uk’s seat on the un security council and also the uk’s veto. let us be crystal clear. the uk’s continuing membership of the european union does not enhance our influence in the world. it is in fact exactly the other way round. our influence is thereby, and inevitably, diminished. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – with the greatest possible respect you actually got it wrong. there is a seat on the un security council. that seat has a veto. what the report proposes is that the eu should have a seat. it also proposes that the method of voting, and i quote, ‘should make use of a super-qualified majority’, which would have the effect of losing the veto. so, therefore, it diminishes the position of the uk and, incidentally, of france, on two counts, not just one. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well i do not want to spoil the happy atmosphere, but it is also true that the uk appointed the current holder of the post of high representative and, as we have heard in the first 20 minutes of self-indulgence with which this debate was opened, that was a complete waste. what a waste of an appointment and what a waste of five years.
mr president, what is the main aspect of eu foreign policy? to help the usa meddle around the world in places that have nothing to do with us – iraq, serbia, libya, afghanistan, syria. you have acted as cheerleaders for aggressive neo-con interference which has benefited only radical islamists but has destroyed societies, while costing british taxpayers billions of pounds. now the target is russia. members know full well that the so-called ukrainian revolution was manufactured with everything from the agitprop to the snipers provided from the usa and the eu. we all know the root of the tough russian reaction is aggressive nato expansionism, first into poland, next into ukraine. yet you persist in irresponsible sabre-rattling in someone else’s natural sphere of influence. it is said that in 1914, europe sleepwalked into war. this time you are heading there with eyes wide open. the basic choice is war or peace. you seem hell-bent on war, so remember: whatever excuses you manufacture, plotting an aggressive war is itself a crime.
mr president, enlargement remains our single most successful part of cfsp, but it is a blunt instrument, and i have come to the conclusion that in this next mandate we must calibrate a new form of affiliation to the union, short of full membership. europe to the east is unstable and fractious, and for us to maintain our leverage, our pull, the capacity to project our values and secure the interests of the union, we have to be continually inventive. on a personal note, lady ashton, it is not mission impossible but it is mission improbable, and well done on that.
mr president, the external action service seeks to develop a common policy and only then persuade or cajole member states to adhere to it. i am in favour of joint action, but only when it is necessary. this must be based on prior agreement on objectives and a genuine commonality of interests, not a shared desire for aggressive adventurism. paragraph[nbsp ]25 states that there is a strong link between development and conflict prevention. european states should therefore stop fomenting conflict in other countries that can cause devastating recession and dire poverty. of course, the greatest reason for stagnation in the poorest of countries is a dearth of talent. this is made worse by northern countries looting what talent they have, generation after generation. we must reverse the brain drain and encourage their brightest and best to reinvest their abilities in the countries of their birth or descent.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, iran remains one of the world’s most dangerous and repressive regimes and appears to have got even worse under president rouhani. almost 200 people have been hanged for various crimes this year alone and conditions for women, lgbt people and minorities such as the baha’is, the ahwazi arabs and azeri turks remains dire. there are hundreds of journalists banged up in prison. despite this bleak situation, my group does support the eu’s increased engagement with iran. we all know that rouhani is limited in the power that he exercises, but his approach to the nuclear weapons issue has certainly been more constructive than that of his predecessors. i welcome the recent council conclusions on implementing the joint action plan and i support any measures which put an end, once and for all, to iran’s quest for nuclear weapons. lady catherine ashton’s recent visit to tehran is welcomed and is an important sign of the eu’s commitment to build constructive, albeit cautious, ties with the theocratic regime. i am sceptical about the proposed opening of a full eu delegation in tehran, but welcome efforts to reach out to civil society and build more democratic institutions in this key country. i reiterate that we cannot yet treat iran as a fully trusted partner in the middle east. iran must show that it is serious about ending its nuclear programme, its support for hezbollah terrorism and its culture of social and political repression.
mr president, i am not an admirer of the iranian islamic republic, but there are many repressive countries in the world and some of them are the west’s allies. iran has been involved in only one war in recent decades, with iraq. it is widely accepted that iraq was the instigator of that conflict. i am afraid i cannot judge whether iran has only a civil nuclear programme, but the claims about iraq proved to be unfounded. there is a certain irony in the fact that many of iran’s critics, the united states and israel among them, have been involved in conflicts in the past and have nuclear weapons. i am sceptical about the foreign policy priorities of the united states, though i must say the present administration is showing more restraint than its republican predecessor. i am no supporter of the european external action service or of the position of high representative. however, if an agreement between the united states and iran, encouraged by baroness ashton, prevents conflict and normalises relations it, and she, must be applauded.
mr president, i want to use my intervention to once again press that, whilst we do welcome the release of some political prisoners and the reformist language used by president rouhani, europe must, in dealing with the nuclear issue, continue to not fail to continuously raise human rights, because – and not despite the fact that – the country’s foreign ministry yesterday called this aspect of our draft resolution ‘unrealistic’. in particular, executions increased, even according to official figures, from 314 to 369 last year. as shirin ebadi, the nobel prize winner, has asked of us, the eu should bring an end to public executions, and an end to the execution of children, a condition for moving forward. for all of us in this chamber who cherish the right to religion and belief, i also join my colleague, ms[nbsp ]muñiz de urquiza, in saying that we should do everything possible to ensure that right for the baha’i in iran. i have heard some genuinely unrealistic things in this chamber this morning, but i want to finish by saying that the joint action plan with iran, together with others, represents a historic achievement of high representative ashton, for which we should be deeply grateful.
madam president, just for the record, i was invited to conduct the voting this morning and i said i would do so on the basis that i would not have to defend any amendment affecting mr schulz’s personal use of his staff. the invitation for me to chair was then withdrawn. (applause)
in writing. - this report examines the tools in place to monitor the effectiveness of european social fund spending on old workers. the report calls for the programming period 2014-2020 to establish special indicators to make clear the causal link between the actions undertaken and the goals defined, to implement a better monitoring system to correct the programmes if objectives established are not reached and to set up an efficient system of data collection related to old workers. a pan-eu programme has merit and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the resolution establishes visa restrictions and asset freezes for 31 russian officials who were involved in the sergei magnitsky case. independent organisations reported widespread negligence for human rights; this is despite eu offers to help modernise the legal line in russia. russia has promised to uphold human rights as a member of the united nations and the council of europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation to place restrictive measures on russian officials who were responsible for the death in custody of sergei magnitsky.
in writing. - i strongly oppose calls for a single eu seat on the un security council; therefore following the adoption of an amendment to the report on the single eu seat in the unsc, i opted to vote against this report today.
in writing. - i am support this recommendation. the european union should enshrine its commitment to the freedom of media, and this should be extended to support for foreign media services in the third world. the recommendation underlines the importance of free, independent and transparent european media and their role in third countries. european media should not be jammed in third world countries and the eu should address press freedom in bilateral meetings.
in writing. - whilst i support the broad principles of pluralistic broadcast media in defending freedom of expression and objective news gathering and news coverage, i believe that broadcasting is a member state competence and not one in which the european union should have direct influence. therefore, i could not support this report at the vote today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and hope that it will contribute to road safety across the eu.
in writing. - the proposals to reduce the sound level of motor vehicles passed will undoubtedly ensure a higher level of health and environmental protection. research by the european environment agency has shown that the persistent exposure to high levels of traffic noise, whether through a daily commute to work or living beside a busy high street, can prove physically and mentally draining, even contributing to cardiovascular and other diseases. the proposals will increase transparency for customers purchasing motor vehicles, requiring member states to provide information on noise levels at the point of sale and in technical promotional materials. in terms of vehicle safety, new hybrid and electric cars will need to install acoustic vehicle alerting systems to provide protection to blind and other vulnerable people. the most controversial aspect of the proposals is the limit values, with a long-term aim of reducing noise levels to 68 decibels eventually agreed. i consider this a classic example of european compromise which may not satisfy all parties, but it does both reduce the harmful effects of noise pollution while not causing a loss of competitiveness for the european automotive industry. i am therefore happy to endorse the proposals as they stand.
in writing. - this proposal, agreed among the institutions, puts in place a number of provisions to protect public health and the environment by reducing the sound level of motor vehicles. i voted in favour of this agreement today.
in writing. - traffic noise is a widespread environmental problem in the eu and i support this report, which sets out targets to reduce the noise level for vehicles by 2021. the extensive negotiations on this report have resulted in less ambitious targets than initially hoped for and i am disappointed that the opportunity has been missed to improve the well-being of eu citizens through this report. however, this report still contains some positive elements, such as the acoustic vehicle alerting systems, and is an improvement on the current motor vehicle noise directive, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which amends this directive, in order to reflect the changes outlined in the proposed agreement on the eid/deletion of voluntary beef labelling regulation voted here today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, it establishes important rules and procedures in order to ensure an effective and timely exercise of the european unionʼs rights to suspend or withdraw concessions or other obligations under bilateral, plurilateral or multilateral trade agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. under the everything but arms scheme (eba), the eu grants duty and quota free access to less developed countries (ldcs) in order to allow them to capitalise on trading ties for their economic development. this arrangement with bangladesh needed revising in view of the necessary changes required by the treaty of lisbon concerning comitology procedures.
in writing. - in light of the breast implant and hip replacement scandals in recent years, i believe that the commission and parliament had to act to ensure all medical devices placed on the european market are safe for patients and health professionals to use and to restore public confidence in the eu’s capacity to regulate the use of medical devices. i am therefore broadly supportive of measures towards achieving this goal. for instance, reinforcing public access to clinical data for both patients and health professionals can spur innovation, in which companies like amtec medical in my own constituency are already leading the way. the proposals could also allow patients, professionals and stakeholders to make more informed choices regarding the medical devices they use. nevertheless i am concerned by the centralised eu approach in which ‘special’ notified bodies overseen by the european medicines agency (ema) will simply duplicate pre-market assessments. given the ema is under financial constraints i remain to be convinced that it will adequately cope with these new responsibilities. i am also concerned that medical devices will be reused by default unless they are included in an approved list drawn up by the commission. i therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. - this report proposes a partially centralised system with a new body capable of random picking of some high-risk medical devices for a conformity check at eu level. it also proposes new responsibilities for the european medicines agency, which has found itself under serious financial constraints and it is not certain it would be able to cope with the new tasks. the current vote is supposed only to close the first reading as the council was not ready to enter the negotiations; i hope there will be more scope for compromise in future negotiations on the report.
in writing. - this proposal for a new regulation is replacing the existing directive on in-vitro diagnostic medical devices (ivd) with the aim of addressing inconsistencies in member statesʼ interpretation of current rules as well as increasing the protection of public health and safety. however, a compromise proposed whereby genetic testing was to be excluded from the regulation was not agreed to, therefore i could not vote in favour of the final report.
in writing. - pleasingly, this final text addresses a number of the concerns which were triggered by the initial commission proposal and additional improvements have also been made through the trilogue negotiations. in light of this, i opted to vote in favour of this report on ‘european environmental economic accounts’.
in writing. - the eu is a major donor in world development projects. next year’s year of development will allow the eu to highlight the importance of this work and i therefore supported this report.
in writing. - it is important that this initiative must represent good value for money for taxpayers; however, an independent study commissioned by the department for international development in 2011 concluded that there was not sufficient evidence to establish a direct link between development awareness-raising activities and a reduction in global poverty. following this, the uk government ended funding for awareness-raising activities, though it continued to fund education programmes. eu resources must be prioritised and concentrated on eu aid priorities, most visibly through programmes implemented in partner countries. this report does not fulfil these criteria.
in writing. - satellites and space installations play an increasingly important role in our everyday lives and are essential for numerous services. space debris is however also an issue of increasing importance and i supported this report which will go some way to dealing with it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this decision to establish the space surveillance and tracking (sst) support framework, which will seek to prevent collisions between spacecraft or spacecraft and debris.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the spending proposals for the animal and plant health package because i believe it will ultimately make the implementation and financial management of the package more effective and efficient. both the northern ireland executive and the uk government have worked hard to ensure that funding remains in line with the total agreed amount of expenditure for the common financial framework for 2014-2020. moreover, both parties have been successful in arguing for access to emergency funding in the event of an outbreak of a serious disease or plant health emergency. although it is of course our wish never to see a repeat of the 2001 foot-and-mouth crisis, we now have better infrastructure in place to combat the consequences of such an outbreak. i am also pleased to see member states retaining an appropriate level of oversight on issues relating to funding and the delivery of programmes. during negotiations, concerns had been raised regarding the impact of tertiary legislation and i am content these have been addressed, and the principle of subsidiarity has been respected. the animal and plant health package is a hugely ambitious undertaking. it is therefore imperative we get the underlying costings right.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to make the implementation and financial management of the eu funding available to member states for activities relating to animal health, plant health, plant reproductive material and official controls more effective and efficient. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - illegal logging is a major environmental problem and the eu’s efforts to combat it constitute important work. i accordingly supported this technical report.
in writing. - this report establishes a licensing scheme for ‘forest law enforcement, governance and tradeʼ (flegt) which should prove key in addressing the issue of illegal logging and associated trade and which will be a positive step forwards in the import of sustainable timber and timber products.
in writing. - i welcome the focus of this report toward setting guidelines for safe and effective clinical trials of medicinal products. investing in our health research infrastructure is crucial to ensuring that the quality of patient services, and processes used to prevent, diagnose and treat disease, continues to improve in a medical environment with many challenges. in my own constituency, northern ireland, a new medical research centre in belfast worth gbp 4 million was opened in september 2013. it is part of a joint venture between academic institutions, the belfast health and social care trust and public health agency. this resource will be key to gaining new knowledge which can then be applied and put into practice with great benefits for people across the province. the committee’s report would strengthen the principle of informed consent for clinical trials. it would also ensure research proposals are effectively assessed, and that they compel better disclosure of trial results – negative or positive. trials which may result in inheritable changes to a person would be banned. this transparency and foresight in relation to the preparation of, and consequences stemming from, clinical trials is vital to ensure safety and good practice. i therefore welcome the proposals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of clinical trials reform due to my concerns with the current lack of transparency in the clinical trials process, which the proposals sought to address. many details of clinical trials process are not published, while information about unsuccessful trials is rarer still. these proposals will ensure that pharmaceutical companies and academic researchers will have to post the results of all their trials in a publicly-accessible database. this is simply good practice in the medical industry and will certainly increase trust amongst patients. i support streamlining the rules on clinical trials across europe in order to improve the alarming decline of trials conducted in the eu between 2007 and 2011 (25[nbsp ]% decrease). i am also in favour of facilitating increasing numbers of cross-border clinical trials and ensuring a minimum standard of patient safety. cross-border trials harness the potential to boost efforts in the fight against rare diseases – in northern ireland more than one in five patients diagnosed with cancer have participated in clinical trials (6[nbsp ]400 between april 2008 and september 2013). through collaborative efforts in other regions and member states, we will hopefully begin to see the development of new disease prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
in writing. - i welcome the agreement that has been reached between the institutions on this long-awaited legislation on the clinical trial procedures required before introducing a new medicine to the market. the agreement reached has increased transparency throughout the whole process, which is key to improving public health and advancing science and medicine. i voted in favour of this agreement on the regulation on clinical trials today as the end report appears balanced and will encourage the adoption of best practice in clinical trials across the eu and beyond.
in writing. - i was delighted to support this excellent report, which endorsed a wide-ranging package of measures to give hope to patients suffering from rare diseases. the deal reached will make trials more transparent and it will also boost the number of skilled research jobs throughout europe. this is another positive step in ensuring that researchers throughout the eu work together to reduce the huge cost and burden of conducting trials and hopefully it will bring benefits to many welsh citizens suffering from rare diseases.
in writing. - the fukushima disaster put the case for eliminating nuclear power beyond a doubt. this report is an abdication of responsibility for this house and i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i am a strong supporter of the nuclear energy sector and understand the importance of ensuring the safety of our nuclear facilities. i support the main ideas of the report, however, i see an issue in verification missions organised by the commission and other member states if substantial deviations resulting from the peer review process are identified. therefore, i could not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted against the amendments requiring member states to set their tax levels above a certain threshold. decisions on tax rates are a member state competence and should remain so.
in writing. - i fully support the aim of avoiding double non-taxation, which is the gist of the original commission proposal. i would rather the proposal was adopted unchanged; however, as some of the latter additions are not in line with my views i could not support the report.
in writing. - unfortunately, i do not feel that this report has taken the opportunity to provide a thorough review of the eu’s work in the area of justice, freedom and security for the period 2010-14. it has focused its attention instead on peripheral non-legislative matters, such as fundamental rights and the parliament’s nsa inquiry, amongst other issues. as a result i voted against this report today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report looking at the mid-term review of the stockholm programme. this review assesses the achievements made so far and points out what actions still have to be undertaken. the stockholm programme sets out the eu’s priorities for the area of justice, freedom and security and i support the recommendation in this report that it should be a joint exercise between parliament, council and commission. the issues covered by the programme, such as citizens’ rights and protection are vital and i support this report’s approach to call for a regular assessment of member states’ compliance with the fundamental values of the eu.
in writing. - the agreement reached between the commission and the co-legislators recognises the need to streamline the process for updating the annexes to the regulation, strengthen risk assessment and provide for an exchange of information on trade in dual-use items while developing improved industry standards, and reducing disparities in implementation across the eu. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the aviation sector is hugely important and i fully support a competitive air industry. if scotland had control over our own air passenger duty we could make scottish airports more competitive and attract more direct flights. nevertheless, the industry has the same responsibilities as others to reduce carbon emissions and i could not support this report.
in writing. - the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to seek to end the emissions trading scheme exemption for non-european airlines defies common sense, and potentially puts the 6[nbsp ]000 jobs at airbus’s wing assembly manufacturing plant in wales at risk. i was pleased the amendment in plenary to retable the original trilogue agreement, and thus reject the position agreed to by the environment committee, was passed. therefore, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the effective duopoly of mastercard and visa means that customers have no choice but to pay fees decided by these big players. today’s vote is a victory for consumers and will reduce the scope for these companies to abuse their position.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of a cap on card payment fees, which i believe will help small and medium-sized businesses to avoid unjustifiably high fees when customers pay by card. this is an example where we can cut unnecessary costs and increase competitiveness of businesses within the single market.
in writing. - i largely support the aim of this proposal; persistent differences between national mifs present a real obstacle to the single market objective. regulatory action is needed since self-regulation and competition enforcement failed. nevertheless, i had to abstain because i could not support a report which: - includes commercial cards in the scope of the regulation (contrary to the commission proposal). such cards are alternatives to invoicing rather than to cash and should therefore be excluded. - sets a too low a cap for credit cards (the average mif in the uk is currently about 0.85% of transaction value). a too low cap increases the possibility of fixed credit card fees being applied (e.g. annual fees) and reduces flexibility to member states in setting a suitable cap (member states can only lower, not increase the cap set by the regulation). - endorses the commission proposal to change the current ‘honour all cards rule’ (hacr) in a way that is very confusing for consumers.
in writing. - this report was largely uncontroversial and is acceptable to wales. sms charity donations were kept out of the scope and it also allowed member states to extend direct debit refund rights, therefore, i was able to vote in favour of the report.
madam president, i am very happy today that, thanks to the liberal democrats’ campaign, we voted to end roaming charges by december[nbsp ]2015. eu mobile roaming caps have saved consumers and businesses gbp[nbsp ]8[nbsp ]billion over the past five years. ending costly roaming fees will give uk citizens travelling in the eu the freedom to use their phones just like they do at home, whether that is using maps, downloading apps or sharing photos. we have to remember that brits make 24[nbsp ]million holiday visits each year to other eu countries. this is exactly the kind of issue that pits liberal democrats against ukip and some tory eurosceptics, who have previously voted to increase your phone bills when you go abroad. we have shown again today that we are putting the interests of consumers and businesses first.
in writing. - the ecr group welcome the ambition behind a number of the proposals within this report, such as ending mobile roaming charges by the end of 2015 and strengthening consumer rights. however, we are extremely concerned at the substantial shift in competence from national regulators to the commission in terms of radio spectrum. in addition the proposals were subject neither to a public consultation nor an acceptable impact assessment and were published no more than seven months in advance of the last plenary session of the seventh european parliament (2009-2014). the ecr group are also extremely concerned that amendments were adopted that would mean a specific court order would be required to filter/block sites containing child abuse with illegal material posted on them. furthermore the amendments adopted on ‘net neutrality’ ignore the reality of how network management works in practice, and would limit providers’ capacity to reasonably manage their networks efficiently, ultimately resulting in higher prices for consumers. while the ecr group believe we must avoid creating a two-tier internet, it must be ensured that innovation in the sector is not stifled. due to the issues outlined the ecr group abstained on the proposals.
in writing. - as an mep for northern ireland, a region of the uk that lies on the periphery of europe, i welcome the focus of these proposals toward shaping telecoms in a manner that encourages cross-border trade and travel. in the council’s working group, representatives of the united kingdom have put forward suggestions to simplify and streamline the provisions contained in the proposal. my constituency shares a land border with the republic of ireland. the mobility of persons, goods and services is therefore crucial to creating growth in the local economy. since 2008, the department of enterprise, trade and investment has invested over gbp 45 million in broadband services, including gbp 21 million in rural areas. this investment in our digital infrastructure is central to driving our economy. provisions included within this package would move toward the abolition of roaming charges. this would have inherent benefits for those living in the border counties of my constituency. the package would also include greater consumer protection measures, promoting increased transparency in contracts, and allowing for a more open internet. if implemented simply and effectively, these measures stand to encourage greater uptake of online services, including e-procurement and e-health, among businesses and consumers. this can only be positive for our economy and for society as a whole.
in writing. - as a rapporteur dealing with issues of business and human rights, i have long campaigned to ensure freedom of expression on the internet. nevertheless, there is an equal duty to protect all human rights, and i voted against this report as, by weakening powers to remove online images of child sex abuse, the rights to health and even the lives of children may be jeopardised. the amendments passed could mean that before requesting the removal of degrading, exploitative images, businesses and organisations including child protection hotlines such as the cambridge-based internet watch foundation would have to apply for a court order. this is costly and time-consuming and would make the protection of minors online unworkable. as an internet watch foundation champion who helped them get european funding and campaigned with them so other countries set up hotlines similar to ours, we cannot afford any backward step in the fight against child pornography. i am dismayed the european parliament has voted in this way, but remain confident the change will be reversed in negotiations before the directive is finally agreed. i look forward to being able to give my support to the limit on mobile roaming fees and other clearly positive aspects of the proposals.
in writing. - a short time ago the opponents of scottish independence claimed that scottish citizens would have to pay roaming charges when they travel to england. today that particular scare has been laid to rest and i was delighted to vote for the abolition of the charges. every week another unionist bluff is called.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the castillo report on the european single market for electronic communications. i am particularly pleased that liberal democrats have been instrumental in the abolition of roaming fees across europe, and that this will now take place next year. i also welcome the vote to protect net neutrality, which ensures that internet users would have the freedom to choose the internet services they prefer.
in writing. - i welcome the ambition behind a number of the proposals within this report, such as ending mobile roaming charges by the end of 2015 and strengthening consumer rights regarding contracts and access to information. however, i am extremely concerned at the introduction of commission veto rights over national plans for spectrum assignments that represent a substantial shift in competence from national regulators, raising serious questions regarding subsidiarity. in addition the proposals were not subject to a public consultation or an acceptable impact assessment and were published on 11 september 2013, no more than seven months in advance of the last plenary session of the current parliament. this has therefore not allowed sufficient time to scrutinise the hugely important issue of specialised services/the open internet/net neutrality, particularly when considering the large number of different stakeholders concerned. therefore, for the aforementioned reasons, i abstained on the report.
in writing. - whilst i support the headline news of this report – a possible end to mobile-roaming charges across the eu by 2015 – much of the report is less satisfactory, not least because of the haste with which it has been rushed through parliament. at the forefront of my concerns lies the introduction of a right of veto for the commission regarding member states’ plans for spectrum assignments. this represents a substantial shift in power to the commission and brings into question the subsidiarity principle. whilst these concerns remain, and i hope that they can be resolved as the legislative process continues, we should not lose sight of the achievement regarding mobile-roaming charges. these fees are a huge boon to customers across the whole of the eu, and an ability to travel throughout the european union on one single tariff will be welcomed by all. we should not also forget the impact this will have on establishing a truly single telecoms market, which can only serve to increase competition and reduce overall costs to customers.
in writing. - i very much welcome the proposals to end mobile roaming charges by the end of 2015, and to strengthen consumer rights regarding contracts and access to information, however, i remain concerned at the introduction of commission veto rights over national plans for spectrum assignments that represent a substantial shift in competence from national regulators. this raises serious questions regarding subsidiarity. on this basis, i abstained in the final vote on this report.
in writing. - i fully support this very important report on a single market for electronic communications. when this comes into force, my constituents in wales will no longer face rip-off charges for using their mobile phones abroad. ending mobile phone roaming charges has been a long time coming but now consumers and businesses will be charged the same to make a call or use internet data in another eu country as they do at home and this is really good news for all travellers.
in writing. - this report should ultimately make it easier to for consumers to identify themselves online as well as sign documents and check their authenticity – therefore improving trust within the digital single market and thus making cross-border transactions easier and more secure. the agreement, which i was able to support, will lay down conditions for the mutual recognition of electronic identification, set rules for trust services, in particular for electronic transaction, and also creates a legal framework for electronic signatures, seals and time stamps, electronic documents and certificate services for website authentication.
in writing. - i voted against both of mr karim’s reports. the law regarding auditing needs real reform, not superficial changes. i do not believe that real reform has been achieved today.
in writing. - a high quality audit report is fundamental to good corporate governance. shareholders, investors and companies themselves need to be able to trust that the report will give a clear and honest view of a company’s accounts so that they can hold boards to account as well as choose whether or not to invest. as rapporteur of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the reform of the audit market, i held this as my main objective. while issues of competition in the audit market exist, solutions needed to be properly tailored so that the value of the audit is not diminished. the final legislation should result in more cooperation between the supervisors of audit across the eu, establishing higher standards, facilitating investment across borders as well as better corporate governance overall. proportionate rules on rotation periods, the provision of non-audit services and the establishment of a system for reporting sectoral trends by auditors to supervisors are to be welcomed.
in writing. - a high quality audit report is fundamental to good corporate governance. shareholders, investors and companies themselves need to be able to trust that the report will give a clear and honest view of a company’s accounts so that they can hold boards to account as well as choose whether or not to invest. as rapporteur of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the reform of the audit market, i held this as my main objective. while issues of competition in the audit market exist, solutions needed to be properly tailored so that the value of the audit is not diminished. the final legislation should result in more cooperation between the supervisors of audit across the eu, establishing higher standards, facilitating investment across borders as well as better corporate governance overall. proportionate rules on rotation periods, the provision of non-audit services and the establishment of a system for reporting sectoral trends by auditors to supervisors are to be welcomed.
in writing. - following the security, political and economic challenges faced by ukraine as a result of these destabilising events, the european council adopted on 6 march 2014 a decision to provide ukraine with a financial support package worth a total of eur[nbsp ]11[nbsp ]billion, including the granting of autonomous trade preferences that will represent an estimated loss of customs revenue for the eu corresponding to eur[nbsp ]487 million (gross) per year. it is vital that this is agreed to without delay, therefore i voted in favour of this report.
madam president, the security threats posed to europe and the wider western world are more complex and multifaceted than ever. whether one looks to the fight against terrorism, counteracting cyber warfare or reacting to emerging security and humanitarian crises globally, all of these are areas where the single member state today cannot always act effectively unilaterally. the culture now of cooperation, fostered by the cfsp and csdp, therefore allows us to protect our mutual interests and act with greater force and efficacy. those who argue that this is a threat to national sovereignty in my country ignore the reality that this actually is by consensus and unanimity. there is still a veto for individual member states. following the adoption of the lisbon treaty, we have witnessed some successes for the cfsp that have been taking place over the last five years. i would particularly like to pay a tribute to baroness ashton for her record. we must note, for instance, the examples of the successes in anti-piracy operations of eu[nbsp ]navfor operation atalanta and the breakthrough in negotiations with iran, as well as the pristina-belgrade dialogues, which will all be remembered as cathy ashton’s legacy.
in writing. - at a time when families and households across my own constituency face hard economic times, i find it disheartening that this report condemns the level of resources allocated to the eu’s policy on external action. while it is right and just that we assist those living amidst danger and disadvantage in societies outside of europe’s borders, we must also not forget how much the eu’s unnecessary foreign policy costs each of us every year. the external action service has a staff of over 3[nbsp ]500 people. it costs taxpayers in countries across eu, and in my constituency northern ireland, half a billion euro every year. such waste cannot be justified. of course it is vital that we build good relationships with our neighbours – especially in order to eradicate poverty and cut the roots of extremist terrorism in developing countries. however this a role that strikes to the very core of national sovereignty. it should be for member states to have their own foreign policy. i also note with concern the absence of an approach to tackle worldwide persecution against christians within the content of this report. these injustices are becoming more prevalent and we must ensure a robust approach to protecting these religious minorities.
in writing. - the eu now has increased competence in relation to external actions and it is essential that these powers are exercised in a coherent manner. this report makes a valuable contribution to the debate on these matters.
in writing. - i am in favour of more coherent eu action which could make a more effective use of the eu funding, however the report’s author believes that such coordination should be developed solely at eu level, rather on the level of its member states. the report also calls for a single eu seat in the reformed un security council, which is not something i can support. therefore, on balance i voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge of the 2012 commission budget because the court of auditors has not cleared the budget for the nineteenth year in a row. in addition, this year the level of errors in the budget is 4.8% or eur[nbsp ]6.2 billion. as a responsible politician and an accountant it is impossible for me to approve this discharge
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i voted for postponing the granting of discharge on the same grounds as the last three years: the council refuses to participate in the discharge procedure on the same basis as all the other institutions on the grounds the treaties only provide for a single discharge of the commission for the whole budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which recommended postponing the council’s discharge. the european parliament’s discharge procedure closes the accounts of the individual institutions but the council continues to hold different legal views of the discharge procedure. the parliament will explore all legal and political possibilities to resolve this inter-institutional issue, but until that is achieved, the parliament will refuse to grant discharge to the council.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which grants discharge to the european external action service. with its decision to grant discharge, parliament fulfils its role of controlling, monitoring and scrutinising how the eu budget is spent. this report outlines the achievements the eeas has made in the last year, e.g. regarding staffing, and so i supported its recommendation to grant discharge.
in writing. - i supported this report. the scottish government has been working with the industry to ensure that the introduction of electronic identification for bovine animals is done in an appropriate way.
in writing. - i welcome this final trilogue agreement on ‘electronic identification of bovine animals’ and i voted in favour of it today. this compromise package will mean that eid for bovines will not be compulsory across europe and it will provide a satisfactory amount of flexibility for member states who wish to voluntarily introduce eid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which grants discharge to the european court of auditors (eca). with its decision to grant discharge, parliament fulfils its role of controlling, monitoring and scrutinising how the eu budget is spent. the report welcomes many of the measures undertaken by the eca to continue to improve its financial performance and also supports the eca’s efforts to devote more resources to performance audits and examining whether or not effectiveness and efficiency have been achieved. these are very important in ensuring that the eu’s budget is spent correctly and to maximum effect.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge of berec because of the exceptionally high level of irregularities found in the report. indeed, unusually the budgetary control committee is in agreement with me on this and has decided that discharge should be postponed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i voted for postponing the granting of discharge, because there is considerable room for improvement with the agency’s procurement and recruitment procedures and with the agency’s internal controls. some work has been done to correct problems, but time is still needed to prove that improvements implemented so far will be effective in addressing the issues.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, therefore to postpone discharge to berec. while this agency is relatively new, i supported the rapporteur’s view that the agency’s performance and budget implementation were poor. berec needs time to get up to speed and improve performance, which is why i voted to postpone the discharge until the agency has demonstrated that improvements have been made.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens. following last year’s decision to initially postpone the discharge for the eea i welcome the improvements in budget expectation that have been undertaken by this agency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens. following last year’s decision to initially postpone the discharge for the european medicines agency, i welcome the agency’s efforts to implement corrective measures.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors, therefore, i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors, therefore, i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge of the railway agency in particular because of the wastefulness of its two headquarters in lille and valenciennes, two cities that are 50 kilometres apart. this is a very good example of european duplication and waste, though one that still falls short of the two seats of this parliament.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving discharge of this agency. representing less than 1[nbsp ]% of the eu’s budget, agencies are vitally important to delivering the goals and results of eu policies. while some improvements still need to be made, i am pleased that agencies are now sharing best practice, and also support services when possible, and working closely with the commission on key issues to bring benefits to eu citizens.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i will continue to vote against granting discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. therefore i voted against granting discharge.
in writing. - it is a sad reflection on this parliament that i feel i must stress the fight against red tape as much as the fight against fraud in assessing this report. in my constituency, northern ireland, the border counties and the local economy have been ravaged by the prevalence of illegal fuel laundering and illicit trading of cigarettes and other goods. much of this crime has come at the hands of republican terrorists operating in these areas. and what is the eu’s response? to propose a european public prosecutor’s office; to harmonise criminal law systems; and to create a team of eu customs officials to duplicate roles already carried out by national authorities. this is disgraceful. we do not need more european red tape and quangos to impede domestic criminal and judicial processes. this simply attacks national sovereignty. instead, we need better enforcement of powers that are already in place. in northern ireland, a region of the united kingdom, we continue to witness sinn féin and the sdlp refusing to allow the national crime agency to operate across the province. and one must question, very deeply, their motives. ultimately, rather than promoting further harmonisation of policing, investigative powers and legal systems, parliament must better support member states in their efforts to tackle corruption and organised crime.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this discharge report. these discharge reports are an important way for the european parliament to get an oversight on how the institutions have spent their budget over the year. it is also a chance for the european parliament to have a say. it is important for my constituents in wales that the eu and its institutions are transparent and democratic and the discharge process is important.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which forms the parliament’s response to the annual pif report from the commission. the protection of the eu’s financial interest is especially important during this difficult economic time and this report highlights some of the key issues facing the eu’s expenditure and revenue. the way in which vat fraud and eu spending in some areas are dealt with and reported vary in each member state and i fully support the rapporteur in calling for a more uniform approach to this to ensure that the problem of fraud is properly addressed. i am pleased that the report highlights the improvements made, e.g. in raising awareness of fraud and the various initiatives taken by the commission to improve anti-fraud work.
in writing. - the uk has been playing an active role in the e3+3 geneva talks on iran’s nuclear ambitions, and wants to see iran living peacefully alongside its neighbours, playing an active role in regional stability. however, concerns remain about iran’s human rights record, use of the death penalty, and freedom of expression. a compromise text has been agreed which makes closer relations with the iranian government conditional on issues such as human rights and compliance with international nuclear agreements. the change of leadership in tehran has presented the uk with an opportunity to re-establish more cordial relations with iran than have existed for many years. however, those voicing concerns over the impact of sanctions on ordinary iranian people, and those arguing that there are still long-term concerns over human rights cannot be ignored.
mr president, i speak with a request to postpone the vote on the maritime spatial planning item, from tuesday, to allow for an accurate translation into swedish. i am told that the existing translation is at best opaque and at worst misleading and incorrect. i am not aware of any problems with other languages, but that is not surprising. i have spoken with ms meissner, the rapporteur, who is in agreement with a postponement of the vote to allow more time for an accurate translation. i am sure you will agree that this is an important point. members must be fully aware of the details and understand properly what they are voting on. so with that, i would like to formally ask for a delay on that vote.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i was the shadow for the green group on this. there was good technical harmonisation about connections, which was very welcome. i note average results from what i basically see as a fairly flawed regulation. member states now have reasonable freedom to decide how and where they want to have the infrastructure and an extended amount of time to decide. the bad result is the lost opportunity to tie greenhouse gas emissions and pollution emissions to the alternative fuels. it is rather technologically blind. there is no reference to renewable energies or to public transport. we need to remember that we started off by trying to reduce emissions, but that does not really seem to feature in the ambition of this report. more could have been done, but the greens will nevertheless support it from the point of view of technical harmonisation.
mr president, the recent peak of air pollution in the west midlands in the united kingdom has shown that much more needs to be done to tackle air pollution. we need cleaner cars on our streets. however, electric vehicles need the infrastructure whereas, of course, investment in charging points requires some guarantee that the market of electric cars will expand. so it is truly a chicken and egg situation. that is why the european strategy which sets objectives for member states in terms of charging points is crucial. it would give the right signal to car manufacturers that we are encouraging the use of low-carbon vehicles and that their investments are worth making. and it would give the right signal to european citizens that we take the issues of air pollution and climate change seriously.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i was speaking just yesterday with a very brave mother back in my constituency, nazan fennell, who lost her daughter in an accident because the lorry driver was unable to see her. she told me that ‘saving parents the pain of the sudden and violent death of their child is priceless’. the liberal democrats in the united kingdom and in the european parliament have been fighting for changes to make our streets safer. the lorries we see on our roads have been shaped like an upturned shoebox for decades. they have far too many blind spots and a front that can push pedestrians and cyclists underneath the wheels. tomorrow, we will have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to change that and to make lorries of the future safer and more environmentally friendly. now some – like the ecr group, to which our uk conservatives belong – are in favour of reopening the contentious issue of the cross-border use of mega trucks. now i for one strongly oppose mega trucks becoming the norm in europe, but at the moment we have to think about the fragile compromise. we do not want to undermine the whole proposal. finally, i would like to ask the commission whether the rumours about the scrapping of the safety requirements from this proposal are untrue. it would be terribly wrong to undermine changes that are significant to european citizens. i hope that parliament will vote massively in favour of these rules tomorrow, and i strongly hope that our conservatives, who abstained on this file in committee, will reconsider and support the proposals tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – this is just a comment to mr bennion. mr bennion is giving out misleading information. it is certainly not the position of the conservatives in the united kingdom, who are the lead part of the government, not to look at improving road safety and design of cabs. quite frankly i think he should be ashamed of himself. the reason we abstained in committee was quite clear, and it was regarding the height issues on trucks which run between the uk and ireland. i do not mind; you can say what you like, phil. we all sit in a chamber and we all agree to disagree, but do get your facts straight.
blue-card answer. – i thank ms foster for her comments because this actually clarifies something. i too am worried about the height issue of the trucks running between northern ireland and the irish republic. however, as we have pointed out, this is not going to change the situation as regards those vehicles that are currently running across the border. we have already said that this will remain. under the proposals on the table, we are asking for this clarification to come in 2016. so i am actually quite happy, ms foster, that this is the only objection that you have. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i absolutely agree with mr van dalen. these are two separate issues, and that is why i have supported separating them. of course, there is no reason why what he calls the ‘eco-combis’ should not have all the same facilities and safety improvements – in fact they need them more than any other. i am not at all linking these two issues by saying that we should just put this off until 2016; i am actually separating them.
mr president, i think there must be an election coming. i would just like to begin by saying that we strongly support the changes to cab design to see better protection for cyclists and for pedestrians. that is a strong conservative position, and we were very happy to have these in the report when it was voted on in the committee on transport and tourism. but there is a key issue for the conservative meps about the possible limitations that could be placed on british and irish hauliers in terms of the height of vehicles, and we need to address that. we are also concerned that the current text, which is calling for the commission to provide a review by 2016 on the issue of cross-border use, is really too premature. longer trucks have been used in countries such as sweden, finland, holland and germany for a number of years. whilst we certainly do not agree with the introduction of these so-called 60-tonne mega-trucks on british roads, i believe that those member states involved who wish to introduce them have the right to do so. if they have a bilateral agreement, that is fine. we support the subsidiarity principle. so, as a result of these comments, we support most of this. we thank mr leichtfried, but ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, huge thanks to our rapporteur, mr leichtfried; he has done a terrific job. we already comply with the icao balanced approach to aircraft noise and it is vitally important that we continue to do so. the way we can mitigate noise in the aircraft sector is by introducing and speeding up the single european sky and sesar and, after all, we are world-leading manufacturers in aerospace – that is, engines – so we need to continue to encourage all of that. we did have some concerns regarding the way this report was going and i am very pleased to say that all of these concerns have been addressed. common sense has prevailed and subsidiarity has been respected, so the progress made during the negotiations has been considerable. as a result, we in the ecr are very happy to support this regulation. we would also like to thank our other colleagues, our other shadow rapporteurs, for their part in this. so thank you again, mr leichtfried. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am sure there is some sort of contribution. i think one of the main contributions we have is that we have a joint technology initiative called clean sky, which this parliament approved, which is a usd 1.4 billion industry and eu joint partnership about the next generation of narrow-bodied aircraft, engines, all of these things. so i think we are taking huge steps, obviously together with the hopefully speeded-up implementation of sesar and single european sky. this is the way forward and i think we have all the tools at our fingertips.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i would like to apologise to everybody, because i find – and i have been here now for five years – i have never, ever tabled more than either one split or separate or one or two amendments to a report, and across all three of these reports i see myself having tabled a whole raft of amendments. it is not the way i prefer to work and it is not the way i want to go, but i have to say i felt that on all three reports it is a necessity because, far from parliament making it easier and helping with the simplifying agenda which, we are told, is the motivation behind this framework legislation, we were simply in danger of making them so complicated and in many cases contradictory within the text that we would end up with what we call in english a dog’s breakfast. having made that point, let me just make one or two points specifically on the reports. first of all on official controls: my main point here is on fees. the commission proposal is that these should be levied. i believe very strongly that this should be ‘fees may be levied’. i absolutely accept that member states must put into place adequate resources to carry out the functions that are required under this official control legislation, but to require that fees must be charged when they are not currently charged is, i think, entirely wrong; it will lead to micro-management at a level which will just cause problems. each member states has different economic, practical and delivery conditions, and that is how it should stay. so i would urge people to support my amendment 343, which uses the wording ‘may’ rather than ‘shall’.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, ireland – north and south – has agriculture at the heart of its economy. our animal health strategy is very important, and ireland as a whole should be declared brucellosis-free by next year. we have an all-ireland animal health strategy with the objective of allowing the free movement of animals throughout ireland. this needs to be recognised by europe, and the partition of ireland should not be used as a barrier to trade, as this currently leads to meat factory buyers in ireland engaging in anticompetitive practices. the new eu animal health law, which is due to be agreed in 2015, must recognise ireland as one island and remove these barriers to animal movement and trade. furthermore, the revision of official control regulations puts food and food safety back on the table, potentially ensuring that risks are eliminated. after all, we cannot allow another horsemeat scandal to happen.
mr president, i think parliament has done a decent job of work, alongside our colleagues in the commission, on this package. in the round, this package updates and consolidates around 600 individual instruments of various types of legislation, so i think there is much to admire within the package. in that spirit, i would particularly praise ms paulsen for the work she has done in her report, and i would urge colleagues to support amendment 238, in my name, which is specifically about dealing with the very real problems that we and a lot of europe’s farmers have had in implementing the rules on the electronic identification of sheep. this amendment is proportionate and based on facts and i think it is important, as we are updating this body of law, that we take due cognisance of how things are. we studied this quite specifically in shetland, scotland’s most northerly islands: 91% of farms have lost tags from various sheep and 87% of sheep have had damaged ears, because of the way this is being implemented. the amendment would allow member states to introduce a derogation to only electronically tag the beast as it leaves the holding of birth. that would in no way undermine traceability. the derogation would be voluntary for the member states, it would not undermine traceability and i would urge colleagues very strongly to support it, because it would help us update this legislation in a very productive way for europe’s farmers.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteurs. this package of measures is crucially important for the european union farming sector. it is essential that we create legislation that is simple, flexible and outcomes-based. i am a little alarmed that aspects falling outside the scope of the regulation, such as cloning and animal transportation times, have been included and that these may distract from the primary animal health concerns. the movement of animals between northern ireland and the republic of ireland is vital to the agricultural industry on both sides of that border. it is extremely important for on-going trade that the proposed eu animal health regulation is not so prescriptive as to destroy generations of successful trade between two member states. veterinary practice agrees that distinct animal health preoccupations exist between northern ireland, the republic of ireland and the mainland. existing animal health and welfare strategies between the jurisdictions must not be undermined by this regulation. to conclude i would also like to mention the matter of bovine eid. can the commission confirm that the recently adopted bovine eid regulation will be incorporated without change in the animal health regulations? i would support this inclusion.
madam president, eu legislation, unlike trade, does not extend beyond its borders, so it might not answer all the animal health needs of animals originating in third countries. this regulation would replace complex existing legislation and much of its substantive content would certainly be beneficial. healthy farm animals are recognised as a prerequisite of human health. whilst the rapporteur acknowledges that this is not primarily an animal protection law, she quotes with approval the description in a parallel regulation that animals are sentient beings and has written that the legislation protecting live animals when travelling should be amended to reflect distances travelled rather than just borders crossed. sentient beings can feel pain and suffer from discomfort and fear. ritualistic slaughter of animals without pre-stunning is self-evidently cruel treatment of a sentient being. food from such an animal will not of course be a hazard to human health, but it will be a wound to civilised sensibilities.
madam president, transparency is an essential prop of a parliamentary democracy, and it is ours – the legitimacy of this parliament – that is being tested in the election campaign as we speak. we ought to be setting a platinum standard which would include the banning of propaganda on our premises from suspect third parties. it should certainly include a mandatory register and a legislative footprint, and i do hope that the next parliament and commission will be able to take forward such constructive proposals.
rapporteur. - madam president, first of all i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive work on my report and i would also like to welcome this evening’s joint debate, which is in conjunction with the committee on industry, research and energy resolution on the commission top ten initiative, which i think really complements my report. i believe all of us here can agree that in order to address unemployment levels in europe we need to look at new, innovative ways in which the eu can contribute to creating an environment that supports businesses and gives them confidence to invest and grow. this, of course, should not come at the expense of workers’ health and safety and that is something i would like to clarify before we go any further in this debate. my ambition is not to reduce the protection of workers or their rights, but it is to reduce the red tape. by making it simpler and easier to understand and implement regulations, we increase compliance and safety. we must create the right regulatory environment, one that will protect workers but at the same time will allow businesses to grow, innovate and ultimately create jobs here in europe. already we have seen a move in the right direction. initially with the small businesses act and, more recently, the ‘think small first’ principle, the sme test, the refit programme and the top ten initiative, which has identified the top ten most burdensome eu laws for smes. while acknowledging the broad spectrum of political views on some of the issues addressed in this report, i think it is fair to say that we have managed to strike a good balance. we have reached agreement on a number of issues, including how the eu and member states can improve access to finance, promote entrepreneurship and develop better regulation. the roots of this report are based on the fact that smes and micro-enterprises currently provide 90 million jobs in the private sector in the eu. and i would like to pay tribute to an organisation which speaks on behalf of smes. it is the federation of small businesses. it is the uk’s leading business organisation. i have here their call to european politicians in their manifesto for the elections coming up. i could not have put it better than they have. ‘entrepreneurship is at the heart of a competitive europe in a world of fast growing economies. it is exciting, inspiring and challenging to set up your own business and to contribute to the economy. therefore, the european institutions and the member states must establish a culture of entrepreneurship for businesses to start up, survive and grow while being able to remain competitive in today’s global markets.’ ‘it ... means investing in skills and making sure employment and social law is flexible, manageable and created with small businesses in mind, while ensuring a level playing field across the eu. small businesses create 85 per cent of all new jobs in europe and employ two-thirds of the workforce. applying the “think small first” principle to labour market policies is therefore essential.’ so my report on creating a hospitable environment for business covers a number of areas. the cost and complexity of starting up a business must be reduced. skills: to compete and succeed globally, we need a workforce with the skills that the market needs. entrepreneurship: it is troubling that the number of eu citizens who want to be self-employed has dropped from 45% to 37% in the last three years. we must recognise that some businesses fail, but those with the courage and vision to have started them have learned from the experience and should not be written off. the report covers demographics, market access, finance, labour markets, smes and micro-enterprises and better regulation. along with 84 other meps i have tabled a plenary amendment, which i really hope you can all support. amendment 2 highlights the recent trend of companies towards returning production and services to europe and the opportunities this brings for job creation. it is estimated that 200 000 jobs could be created in the next few years as companies return activities to the uk and other parts of europe. improved quality control and shorter lead times make the case for reshoring even stronger. i believe that our economies have a unique opportunity to accelerate this trend of reshoring jobs and that member states, together with the commission, must take concrete steps to help businesses capitalise. i hope that colleagues will support this report as an important step forward to creating a more hospitable environment for job creation in europe and i look forward to the debate ahead.
mr president, the current economic climate demands that we look carefully at how best we can create jobs and growth. this report makes a significant contribution to this debate by focusing on the importance of entrepreneurship – something which i myself have been advocating should play a bigger role in education for at least two decades – and also creating the right climate for smes, notably by looking closely at the regulatory burden which we impose upon them. but i am disappointed to see that members on the left of this house are trying to remove many of the positive points in this report. for example, the greens do not seem to think that we should make sure that our education and training systems adapt to business needs through stem skills, nor that the free trade agreements provide opportunities for investment and jobs. the socialists do not seem to think that social partner agreements should be subject to democratic controls. we should be aiming for an efficient union which keeps the better regulation agenda at its core, so we need to include all the positive elements in this report.
mr president, i commend ms mcintyre for her efforts in this report and i share with her my desire for greater success for small and medium enterprises, and indeed their ability to create jobs. i think in the uk smes create up to about 43% of the workforce, the highest ratio. we differ, however, on how to go about it. she obviously believes that she can achieve this from inside the european union, in what is probably one of her conservative party’s many hopes for reform. i feel this is unlikely. in 2009 when i attended, with mr bill benyon, the federation for small businesses (fsb) hustings in birmingham, the fsb manifesto said, please, no more legislation from the european union, please cut the red tape. ms mcintyre, in the two and a half years you have been here you have failed to cut one piece of red tape. and indeed mr rübig, who submitted a question, talks about gold-plating. well, the uk leads on gold-plating and this conservative government has not done one thing to cut gold-plating. the conservative government is losing us jobs in europe.
rapporteur. - mr president, we have heard a number of very key points in this debate: firstly, that businesses, particularly smes, must be equipped and supported with knowledge and know-how on how to access much-needed finance, for example through one-stop shops and web portals; and, secondly, that it is important that an entrepreneurial spirit is nurtured from a young age, right through school and university. i am grateful to mr rübig for raising that particular issue – that the whole matter of becoming an entrepreneur is what we need to teach people. i would like to congratulate ms panayotova on her initiative for suggesting that the eu has a year of entrepreneurship, and ms tomašić for cutting red tape to let croatian companies thrive, which is so important. the federation of small businesses tells us that the european market, with its 500 million customers, is very attractive for small firms. it is up to us, as legislators, to cut the red tape and the burden on businesses. if you are a small business person, you spend all day doing the real job and then you have to be the accountant, the lawyer, and the hr specialist at night. it is our job to cut that bit so that the business can concentrate on its core role of creating wealth, growing, and being able to employ more people. so i commend my report, and the others, to the house. i hope that we can all unite in calling for the cutting of red tape and the increasing of business opportunities to create jobs and let our companies thrive.
mr president, i wanted to mention in the chamber this evening the remarkable life and work of john muir, the father of modern-day environmentalism. this week marks the start of the inaugural john muir festival, a festival which marks the centenary of his death in 1914. john muir was born on 21 april 1838 in dunbar in east lothian in scotland and left when his family emigrated to america. it was through his work in america – particularly his efforts in national parks, the protection of redwood forests and his founding of the world-renowned sierra club, which he wrote and spoke about – that most importantly he inspired people to take care of and have responsibility for their environment. john muir knew that, if we do not protect our environment today, we will lose it for ever. he said that everyone needs beauty as well as bread, places to pray and play, where nature heals and gives strength to body and soul alike. john muir should be recognised in europe just as much as in america, and i hope that together we can find some way to mark the life of this remarkable man.
mr president, thursday 17april is the 30th anniversary of the murder of police constable yvonne fletcher in london. she was killed in a hail of shots into a crowd from the libyan embassy. the murderer has so far not been brought to justice. information has come to light that a suspect living in jordan has confessed to the murder and his identity is known to the british security services and to the metropolitan police. so far, no action has been taken by the british authorities to question him and, if the evidence so demands, to request his extradition from jordan to face trial. contrary to popular belief, most of those in the libyan embassy at the time did not have diplomatic immunity and the suspect is not protected. pc yvonne fletcher deserves justice and the british authorities must now make every effort to bring her murderer to justice without further delay.
mr president, last week marked another historic moment in the irish peace process. the visit of the president of ireland, michael d. higgins, to britain marked a significant change in the relations between britain and ireland and highlighted the need for further and deeper reconciliation. this progressive step has been welcomed by all those like myself who champion this peace process. the eu has played its part in making this come about, with peace funding and constant support for those emerging from this conflict, and long may it continue. the significance of this event should not be underestimated, nor should the repeated calls for those involved to continue the reconciliation process. to that end, i want to state that i am very committed to building reconciliation among all our people and to creating an agreed ireland.
mr president, the nature-nurture debate used to be the most important in politics and was the key to a whole range of political views. the nurture side had much to be said for it – perceived kindness and fairness and, of course, non-discrimination. the nature side had only evidence to support it. however, nurture now seems to have been declared the winner without a contest. indeed, nature has been airbrushed out of the picture, even as a contestant. all public policies, whether devised by left, right, centrist or a populist safety valve, base their policies on a false assumption. they assume equal potential ability, which does no favours to those without it. they assume third world migrants can be substitute europeans, when they only turn europe into the third world. they confuse social mobility with equality of opportunity and do not realise that the latter will eventually bring the former to a shuddering halt. they throw money at continents that cannot benefit from it, because europe takes their brightest and best.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, today we are looking at three parts of the new rules on banks. the first is part of a global change that deals with the mistake of the past. in the past, when a bank faced failure, authorities either had to choose between a messy, uncertain bankruptcy or a taxpayer bailout, but now the recovery and resolution work changes that. we can have the orderly wind-down of a bank with creditors – not taxpayers – paying the bill, and depositors – that is ordinary men and women who have money in ordinary bank accounts – will be protected. the financial world will be a safer place. and this is largely thanks to g20 work led, i am glad to say, by the bank of england and now adopted here as part of a new global framework. thank you, colleagues. the second bit of work is about deposit guarantees. it is quite right that banks and not taxpayers should pay the bill, and some countries have chosen to do this through the deposit guarantee fund. others, like my own, have chosen to take a levy. it is worth over gbp[nbsp ]2[nbsp ]billion to our own taxpayers. i am glad that we have not chosen a one-size-fits-all approach because different approaches can work and it is right that we have respected that. the third leg is banking union. here the eurozone has decided to go further. decisions which were once taken at a member state level will now be taken more at a european level and they will pool their funds. i understand why – because of the eurozone situation – some of those countries wish to do that, but the uk and many other members of my group are not part of the eurozone, so i am glad that the intergovernmental agreement makes it clear that we are not paying the funds and we do not share in the liabilities, because that puts up a firewall between those in the eurozone and those who choose not to participate. we have difficult negotiations ahead. if we can have international agreements where they are needed, respect different national approaches where appropriate, and understand that, although some countries want ever-closer union, others do not, then perhaps those negotiations will go well in the future.
madam president, the proposals before us today are inadequate for the eurozone and inappropriate for the wider eu. without a joint deposit guarantee scheme for eurozone banks there is no proper banking union at all. understandably, the germans do not want a joint scheme, because they would end up paying for the profligacy of eurozone banks in other countries. likewise, we in the uk cannot watch the city of london – a global banking hub – be trammelled by the eu’s hopelessly complex and time-consuming requirements. but there is a broader problem: a series of measures – bailouts, haircuts, banking regulation – have been applied to the euro crisis, but they are no more than sticking plasters. the underlining cancer is the euro itself: a failed political project that never made economic sense. the hubris and obstinacy of elderly eu leaders, their refusal to face the collapse of their flagship project is devastating the economic prospects of a young generation across southern europe. they have suffered enough; it is time to dismantle the euro. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr helmer, if you think these proposals are so inappropriate and so unacceptable, why has your group failed to turn up to any of the hundreds of negotiations that have happened in the past five years on such an important issue as sorting out our broken banking system? and why do you wait until the very, very last meeting of this parliament before you bother to make your voice heard? (applause)
blue-card answer. – well thank you, vicky; it is always good to hear from you. when you are in a fairly small group and in a structural minority as a eurosceptic party opposed to the projects of this european union, you cannot follow every issue in detail, no matter how important. i am privileged to have the opportunity of expressing a view on these matters today and i thank vicky for her question. (loud, hostile interjections)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the commission recently named the product safety directive as one of the ten most burdensome pieces of european legislation. we set out to simplify the law and to reduce costs for businesses. unfortunately, reform of this legislation aimed at improving the single market and protecting consumers has been hijacked by socialists in this parliament intent on creating a european nanny state. let me give you just one example: the labour party and their allies want ‘to prohibit the manufacture of products that are likely to be confused with foodstuffs due to their form, odour, colour, appearance, packaging, labelling, volume, size’ or indeed any other characteristics. now a business in my constituency manufactures soaps and bubble bars like these. (the speaker held up some soaps in the form of carrots)they look like carrots. that is the point. yet the socialists want to ban them because they look like food. why? people love them and there has not been a single complaint. it would seem that the left in this house are on a crusade to stop people accidentally gorging themselves on soap! this is a perfect example of what is wrong with how we make laws in this place. this is, or could be, a helpful law that ensures safe products across europe and across the single market. instead politicians are using it to control people’s lives. if we want our constituents to trust us to make good laws, we must trust them to live their lives responsibly.
mr president, the 2012 report of rapex reported that there had been a 26% increase in the number of alerts for dangerous products. this was not just the result of greater market surveillance, as the rapporteur said; the number of dangerous products really was increasing. do we know the countries from which these products come? there have been some coded hints this morning, but only coded ones. on 20[nbsp ]january, we learnt from a debate on a proposed regulation for consumer protection that 58% of notifications for dangerous products related to goods from china, and that in a further 16% of cases it was not possible to identify the country of origin. importation of cheap goods from emergent economies does not only undermine our manufacturing basis (and of course the jobs of our workers), it also has the potential for injuring our consumers. freedom of movement of goods – not just within the eu, but globally – is the root cause of dangerous products in our markets. the eu is not so much a european union, as it is becoming a global union.
mr president, i want to reflect on all the dossiers as chairman of the committee and i want to say first of all that the biggest disappointment for the members of the committee – and especially ms[nbsp ]schaldemose and ms pietikäinen – is that we are not putting before you today a first-reading agreement with the council. we shaped our work so as to deliver a report at the end of october to give us time to do that, and ms schaldemose led that process for five years beforehand, as ms rühle pointed out, and the commission incorporated a lot of ideas in its proposal. i think it is a real shame that we are not delivering to the consumers because of the one issue of ‘made in’, and ms durant gave the game away because she talked not about consumer safety but about reviving the european economy. i do not think that is the issue here; it is that we are letting down consumers because we are allowing this issue to block the whole dossier and the council and commission both have to do something about it. i want to turn now, if i may very briefly, to mr[nbsp ]weidenholzer’s report, for which i was shadow. he says that it has come out as a good report and i just want to identify the focus of the work that we have been doing, which is what consumers are looking for. they want clear, independent, transparent information about the complex products that they are buying and they want to be able to switch suppliers quickly and easily. that is what is going to make the utilities market for consumers more effective.
mr president, i would like to thank all three rapporteurs for their hard work on these important dossiers. in christel schaldemose’s report, the need to update general product safety rules after 10 years is vitally important for consumer safety and particularly for how we protect children. for example, currently in the uk one in 10 burns in children is due to hair straighteners and i want to commend to the house the work of electrical safety first for their campaign on the issue, along with the child accident prevention trust. on the utilities report, the cost of living crisis is the key issue in the eu. when prices are rising but people’s wages are stagnating, families and individuals suffer when having to make decisions on whether to keep warm or buy food. it is a disgrace that the conservatives in this house deleted a paragraph in this report on energy poverty, at a time when our citizens want to see us address these critical issues. on a positive note, i welcome more transparency in energy tariffs and hope that we will see energy companies address transparency with clearer and more comprehensive consumer information on pricing.
mr president, 25 years ago today i went to a football match along with thousands of liverpool supporters. ninety-six of us never came home. the fans were expectant, west yorkshire police were negligent. the fans died, the police lied. justice for the 96: you’ll never walk alone.
mr president, it is not a point of order, it is actually a statement as chair of the conference of delegation chairs, and i would like the house’s attention, if i may. last week the conference of presidents approved modifications to the rules for inter-parliamentary delegations. these rules were approved following a sham of a procedure during which the conference of presidents was ill advised and misguided. the recommendations and proposals made by the conference of delegation chairs were completely ignored, despite our first-hand experience and political expertise. also, i point out that we implemented drastic financial cuts. unfortunately, the decision taken by the conference of presidents reflects a lack of consideration and a lack of respect for the work that has been undertaken by the delegation chairs. i have therefore come to the decision to resign as chair of the conference of delegation chairs as it has been made impossible to seriously undertake such a position. furthermore, mr president, this does not reflect on the support that you have given me and the conference of delegation chairs. there is not much time left for this mandate, but i cannot remain as chair and tacitly endorse what i believe to be a reckless approach taken towards the future work of our external delegations. (applause)
in writing. - ukip’s position is: against. the srm, which complements the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), is a pillar of banking union. it is designed to centralise control, authority and management over bank failures in the eurozone (and other participating member states – the ‘pre-ins’ such as sweden). however, much of the drafting fails to make adequate distinction between the uk and the eurozone, leaving room for judicial ‘interpretation’ to harmonise across the whole single/internal market – in fact the committee amendments expressly encourage this. moreover, banking union is against the long term interests of the member states of the eurozone as it perpetuates the euro as a job-destroying machine.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. although the uk will not be a part of the single resolution mechanism, this is still a crucial element of the european banking union, which in turn will help restore stability and growth to the eurozone. this is of course of vital importance to the uk and scottish businesses.
in writing. - since the beginning of the financial crisis a process which gives hope to reducing the impact of any such similar crises has been sought and has now been achieved. given the size of the eu market in financial services and in particular the banking sphere, the efforts made by the institutions at an eu level are vastly more important than any loose arrangements at a national level. i have my own opinion of the total impact on avoiding a financial crisis of the future, most notably that it will not be of the same variety as the last. however, it is vital that a line is drawn in the sand and that trust is allowed to return to the public in the financial services system. it has been my pleasure to have worked alongside colleagues across all the institutions in achieving both a supervisory system and a ‘banking union’ which will have an historical effect.
in writing. - as a uk conservative, i am glad that the single resolution mechanism for failing banks within the eurozone and for those member states who want to join it has finally reached political agreement. a eurozone with resolution mechanism in place for their banks is good for the uk, as we have seen how bank failures and the spill-over effects from the eurozone also hurt our economy. while a common backstop for banks within a currency union seems to have been proven necessary, the same does not hold true for the uk, as we should remain outside of it. the banking union is a huge project on the part of those in the eurozone and, while it may provide some of the tools necessary for stability in the common currency going forwards, all of the eu member states must take responsibility for their economies and stick to the rules they have signed up to. no number of treaties or grand announcements will supplement the need for the real reform and budgetary discipline that is needed to make the eu competitive on the global stage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which gives the green light to a package of measures that will establish the necessary foundations for establishing a banking union. this system will ensure that taxpayers’ money is no longer the first option when dealing with a bank in trouble, as it was during the financial crisis when public money was injected to rescue the european banking sector. i hope that lessons have been learnt since then and i am pleased that there is work being done to stop the excesses of banks through sound and efficient regulations.
in writing. - i abstained in this vote as, despite the potential to come up with a progressive forward-thinking strategy on the protection of consumers in relation to services, what the result is, is a reiteration of the current european position. my constituents in wales want parliament to pass legislation that will make a difference to them.
in writing. - i joined my group in abstaining on this report. whilst consumer protection is of huge importance, this report adds little of substance to the debate and is a wasted opportunity.
in writing. - this report includes recommendations to enhance consumer protection in utility services, which cover energy and the digital sector to parcel delivery. it recognises improvements in legislation in this regard by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and calls for enhanced consumer information, better enforcement of existing legislation, faster switching, improved transparency and comparability of tariffs. while the rapporteur had originally called for harmonised definitions of utility services and binding measures, the compromises and original draft report were significantly improved, better focused on imcoʼs competences, and modified during negotiations with political groups due to an alliance of the ppe, alde and ecr. the ecr group’s amendment to delete the socialist rapporteurʼs proposals to define utility services as services of general economic interest (sgeis) and to delete proposals for the commission to propose a european legal framework for sgeis were successful. for this reason, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i supported this report, which calls for greater transparency in energy, telecommunications, transport and postal services and increased protection for consumers. this own-initiative report highlights the measures needed to improve the accessibility and quality of utility services and focuses on these four major sectors. it is vitally important that consumersʼ needs are always taken into account and i support the call for member states to invest in consumer education and information and the need to focus on vulnerable consumers. many of my constituents in wales are struggling with rising energy prices and enhanced consumer information and the transparency of tariffs is welcomed.
in writing. - this recast directive updates the technical standards applicable to vessels operating on inland waterways in the eu. the current directive allows member states such as the uk, which have inland waterways not linked to the waterways of other member states, to authorise derogations from some or all of the requirements of the directive. vessels that operate only on inland waterways within the uk are not affected by the directive. however, vessels that operate on the community waterways of member states in mainland europe will be subject to the technical requirements laid down in the directive, so this directive does have an impact on uk vessels. therefore, i abstained on the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which looks at promoting inland waterway transport. the agreement focuses on the naiades[nbsp ]ii package, which looks at realising the potential of europeʼs 37[nbsp ]000[nbsp ]km of inland waterways. i support the proposal that member states should also encourage ways of leveraging the use of the funds alongside financial instruments, including, where appropriate, under horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility and financial instruments from the european investment bank.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as achieving smooth and efficient cooperation between administrative authorities in member states and the commission is essential to make sure that legislation is properly implemented. reducing administrative burdens and closing loopholes will help my constituents in wales get the best benefit from the free movement of goods.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it amends the existing regulation to simplify and speed up the mechanisms for combating customs fraud and avoid unnecessary and repetitive bureaucracy. to address the problem of long delays in the flow of information – but at the same time to safeguard national competences of the member states – the commission will be able to request supporting import and transit declarations from economic operators in relation to investigations on the implementation of customs legislation if the member state agrees.
in writing. - this report concerns the codification of directive 98/34/ec which governs the process for adoption of technical standards in the areas of information society standards, such as in the field of construction, transport, telecoms and agriculture. the directive is used for notifying technical standards across a wide range of topics. it is of utmost importance that codification proposals do not substantively alter the provisions contained within the directive as amended. following presentation, the consultative working party – consisting of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission respectively – examined the above proposals and concluded, without dissent, that this report is a straightforward codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance. therefore, i voted in favour of the report to support the codification.
in writing. - our position is: abstain. relates to the accession of croatia and to its joining an international arbitration convention concerning double taxation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on croatiaʼs accession to the eu. my constituents in wales would be happy to see that the accession procedure is being rolled out and that croatia has now acceeded to the 1990 convention on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, whereby croatia will accede to the 1990 convention, known as the arbitration convention, to which all member states are party. this convention is aimed at enhancing the single market by setting out the procedure whereby firms may ask for a review of the profits of associated enterprises and which allows for a dispute resolution mechanism where double taxation occurs in different member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the completion of the single european railway area. it is vital that europe is connected in order to boost its economy. i regret that wales has been left out of the ten-t corridors as a result of the uk government negotiating us out. i will, nevertheless, work to ensure that wales gets the best deal from the transport funding that is available.
in writing. - i strongly support and voted in favour of these proposed ‘joint technology initiatives’ (jtis) and ‘public 2 public partnerships’ (p2ps), as they have proven levels of research efficiency and effectiveness as well as attracting high industrial participation compared to other areas of the eu’s research programmes, particularly amongst smes. i am particularly pleased that attempts from both the lead ppe and s&d negotiators to reduce substantially the money allocated to them from horizon 2020 were defeated. i view the programmes as a key priority in driving long-term industry participation, and, as the funding models used under the proposals generate a greater contribution from industry than would be the case under the usual horizon 2020 funding rules, the cumulative effect is more money spent on research. it was also important to ensure that the work programmes of each partnership met the criteria agreed under the overall horizon 2020 legislation, in order to guarantee the consistency of research priorities. in order to guarantee full scrutiny and transparency of the public expenditure, parliament insisted on separate discharge procedures for each programme.
in writing. - these applications amount to eur[nbsp ]3[nbsp ]010[nbsp ]985 for italy in relation to 1[nbsp ]164 redundancies and eur[nbsp ]1[nbsp ]964[nbsp ]407 for spain in relation to 330 redundancies. i oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund and therefore voted against.
in writing. - these applications amount to eur[nbsp ]3[nbsp ]010[nbsp ]985 for italy in relation to 1[nbsp ]164 redundancies and eur[nbsp ]1[nbsp ]964[nbsp ]407 for spain in relation to 330 redundancies. i oppose the european globalisation adjustment fund and therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this deposit guarantee scheme as it is a classic example of where we must learn from the mistakes made before the economic crisis and protect our citizens for the future. a strong and unyielding stance by parliament on this issue has meant that depositors, including my constituents in wales, will now be better protected if we are ever hit by a recurring economic crash.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because deposit guarantee schemes are funds to protect depositors in case of bank failure and are a crucial part of the eu financial reform agenda. we need this reform to stabilise our financial industries and to ensure we do not suffer another financial crash. the report i voted in favour of will mean depositors’ money will be protected up to gbp[nbsp ]85 000 and there will be eu wide rules on the financing of deposit guarantee schemes.
in writing. - in supporting this legislative proposal, i can appreciate the work undertaken by the rapporteur, peter simon. after the northern rock bank in the uk sent shock waves throughout the eu, it became clear that action was necessary to secure the deposits of bank customers, particularly small savers. the rapporteur has shown that consideration of national approaches is possible under the banner of eu action. i congratulate peter simon and am pleased to have been a part of the crucial debate that matters to men and women across the european union, who now have a vital guarantee.
in writing. - under current rules bank deposits are guaranteed up to eur[nbsp ]100[nbsp ]000 per bank in the eu (gbp[nbsp ]85[nbsp ]000 in the uk). the proposal aims to back up this commitment with adequate funding, so as to separate the taxpayer from losses incurred by bank failure, and to make certain other commitments to reassure depositors. i initially opposed the proposal at first reading due to an unrealistically high level of funding (1.5[nbsp ]% of deposits) demanded by the rapporteur and other shadows, which would have suited germany but few others. nevertheless, in a second round of trilogue negotiations a final agreement was made which is both more realistic (0.8[nbsp ]%) and compatible with the ukʼs banking levy. furthermore, a commitment has been made to ensure depositors have their money within seven working days, which is already achievable in the uk. for this reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which aims to facilitate the use of alternative fuels and to break the vicious circle in which customers do not buy alternative fuel cars because there is a lack of related infrastructure. my constituents in wales are concerned about climate change and one way we can reduce the impact we have on the climate is to cut carbon emissions from cars.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. eu-wide action is vital in our fight against climate change and we must make sure it is as easy as possible for member states to work together. for example, this report will give confidence to consumers and industry, which should lead to greater investment in infrastructure. this will help electric cars for example, as it will be easier for people to charge them whilst they are out and about.
in writing. - this directive requires that each member state adopt a national policy framework for the market development of clean technologies such as electric vehicles, hydrogen, lng and cng. this will require member states to set their own non-binding minimum infrastructure targets for recharge and refuel points. by the end of 2020, member states will have to ensure an ‘appropriate numberʼ of recharging points accessible to the public to allow electric cars to circulate. parliament and the commissionʼs desire for pre-determined binding targets set at eu-level have been abandoned, and the uk government believes that the national policy frameworks allow sufficient flexibility to allow provision of infrastructure which is appropriate to local market demand. the uk government also believes that this directive will deliver transparency to the market and encourage confident market-led investment in this sector. moreover, concerns that the plug connector system used on the uk-produced nissan leaf would be excluded from the eu market have now been allayed. considering that the ukʼs concerns have been resolved through the trilogues, i fully support the agreement reached and voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive, which will strengthen the market for alternative fuel vehicles through the deployment of recharging stations across europe. more than 90% of the energy used in transport comes from crude oil and i support the targets set out in this legislation. standardising infrastructure deployment across europe, e.g. through only one type of electric vehicle connector, will give confidence to consumers and industry. it will also lead to greater investment in sustainable vehicles and alternative fuel infrastructures, which will encourage sustainable growth and the creation of jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it contains proposals for safety and efficiency improvements to lorry design that are important for the road safety of pedestrians and cyclists, as well as for savings on co2 and other emissions and efficient fuel use. it is important that welsh roads are safe.
in writing. - road transport plays a vital role in maintaining the economies of all our member states and it is right that we legislate for international lorry transport. i think that this report achieved a sensible balance and so i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the maximum dimensions of certain road vehicles. liberal democrat meps have constantly pushed for greater safety measures to be incorporated in the design of lorry cabs in order to protect road users such as cyclists. i am pleased that we have succeeded and that the number of blind spots under the front windscreen and the side of the vehicle will be reduced in future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the socialist and democratic rapporteur managed to get a report through committee which will not allow megatrucks to cross eu borders (thus keeping them off uk roads) and includes measures to make cyclists safer. labour is committed to promoting greener freight transportation by using rail rather than road, therefore we do not want megatrucks on our streets.
in writing. - this report sets out parliamentʼs first-reading position on a recast proposal regarding the maximum dimensions and weight for vehicles transporting goods and passengers. it also provides for derogations for some vehicles exceeding these maximum dimensions. the key issues concerned an updating of cab dimensions to reduce the driver’s blind spots, in order to protect vulnerable road users such as pedestrians and cyclists. secondly, on the issue of cross-border circulation of so-called larger and heavier ‘giga-linersʼ, currently interpreted in different ways by different member states, the commission proposal attempted to provide legal certainty that they could only cross a border where the two member states agree to allow the vehicles on their road network. whilst conservatives do not wish to allow so-called ‘mega-trucksʼ on uk roads, the commission text provided much needed legal clarity, in what has been a grey area, which does not interfere with the practices of other member states. conservatives were also anxious to ensure that cross-border circulation of higher trucks between the uk and the republic of ireland should be allowed to continue.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this directive prohibiting cross-border transport with mega-trucks in the eu. this directive will not only make roads safer for eu citizens, but will also contribute to reducing climate change. besides being a threat to road safety due to their dimensions, the prohibition of mega trucks, which are responsible for 26% of road-transport co2 emissions, will help the eu to reach its target of reducing greenhouse gases by 20% by 2020 and 60% by 2050.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is important that we make sure cab specifications reduce blind spots and make the roads safer to use for others like cyclists and pedestrians. it also clarifies the legal position on ‘mega trucks’ and states that they can only cross borders when the two states agree to the lorries driving on their road networks. changes to the shape of cabs will also mean that vehicles are more aerodynamic and this will increase efficiency and contribute to a reduction in fuel consumption/costs for users. the accommodation of aerodynamic flaps at the back of trailers will also reduce drag and emissions. we live in a time of substantial congestion and climate change targets; this report works to meet the challenges presented by both. the report also supports an increase in size and weight, meaning more can be transported, bringing greater benefit to the economies of member states. the liberalisation of cross-border circulation benefits the movement of goods across member states. all in all, this report brings economic, environmental and safety benefits to drivers, pedestrians and other road users and adheres to changing market trends across the eu.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. this directive is designed to provide the eu with tools to deal with unsound or failing credit institutions and investment firms (and their group entities). it aims to make sure ‘resolution’ takes place speedily and with minimal risk to financial stability. the directive intends to preserve systemically important functions when a bank fails so that, on failure, shareholders and creditors, rather than taxpayers, bear the losses. passes powers to eu institutions (including the european banking authority and the european central bank) and draconian powers to resolution authorities in member states.
in writing. - this proposal, a key post-crisis measure, aims to set rules for the orderly recovery of ailing banks or break-up of failing banks in order to avoid systemic effects on the banking system as a whole and to avoid taxpayer involvement in the costs of such events. it includes a number of measures known as ‘bail inʼ which aim to put the costs on creditors, rather than the general public, while protecting as much as possible ordinary depositors. while i voted against the committee report, the final outcome of the proposal reached in trilogue is satisfactory to the uk, having resolved a number of issues of national importance. in particular, the special funds to which banks must contribute have been organised in such a way as to be compatible with the ukʼs banking levy. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the final report.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. the regulation further deepens the involvement of esma in uk financial services, and the econ committee seeks to attack freedom of contract by restricting fund manager bonuses.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive on undertakings of collective investment in transferable securities, more commonly known as private equity funds and hedge funds. it sets out a number of principles and duties of those who invest in these funds. following the economic crash, it was important to make sure there are robust rules to rebuild investor trust in financial markets and to stamp out the gambler mentality rife in this sector. we in wales have suffered the brunt of this behaviour and so this directive should help ensure that it cannot happen again.
in writing. - the ucits brand has been a great success for europe, providing investors’ confidence that funds with the ucits label are trustworthy and understandable. while this latest addition to the legislation has faced considerable political pressure, i am now hopeful that it will not be a hindrance to investors going forwards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits v) report. this report aims to protect small investors against investment funds that take excessive or unnecessary risks with their money. the reportʼs rules clarify who is liable for mismanagement of funds and tailor fund managersʼ remuneration rules to encourage them to take reasonable risks and a long-run view. fund managers will be required not to take investment risks beyond what is accepted by their ucits investors. at least half of the variable part of their remuneration will be paid in the assets of their ucits, unless the management of ucits accounts for less than half of the total portfolio. eu member states will also have to provide in their laws for harmonised administrative penalties for funds that fail to comply with organisational, risk management, and other requirements.
in writing. - our position is against. this directive introduces rules relating to payment accounts, with a particular focus on transparency for fees, easier switching mechanisms and broader access to basic bank accounts. many elements of this reform have already been in place in the uk for some time, and the uk’s prime objective in negotiations on this file was to ensure that key elements of its own system were preserved. unnecessary harmonisation, over-regulation and interference in freedom of contract. the right to a bank account may sound beneficial but would be more easily delivered by abandoning the over-regulation resulting from anti-money laundering regulations. if, as hmg says, much of this is already in place, we don't need a further tier of regulation muddying the waters.
in writing. - whilst access to a basic bank account has become essential for europe’s citizens, switching accounts between member states can be problematic. this in turn can act as a barrier to citizens exercising their freedom of movement. i welcome this report which will go some way to reducing these barriers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important piece of eu legislation for consumers in the eu. the ability to open a basic bank account in any country will be particularly advantageous to students and young people who move to other eu countries for a short period of time to carry out work experience or study abroad. two other positive aspects of this legislation include the obligation for banks to give consumers a fee information document as well as to offer assistance should a customer choose to switch providers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will give anyone legally residing in the european union access to a bank account. currently, some people in certain financial situations cannot access a bank account, specifically when they do not have a fixed permanent address. the proposals will also ensure that fees and rules for all payment accounts will be transparent and easy to compare. it will also be easier to switch bank accounts.
in writing. - this proposal is aimed at improving transparency and comparability of fee information related to payment accounts, facilitating switching between accounts, eliminating discrimination based on residency and providing basic accounts aimed at low earners, etc. the main aims of the proposal, which has been agreed in trialogue, are acceptable to the uk which has (often through voluntary means) achieved a considerably more advanced regime than many other member states in respect of basic banking, switching and consumer protection. however, i abstained on this report as certain aspects go much further than is necessary, given the essentially domestic nature of retail banking, and there is considerably more harmonisation on some aspects than is necessary.
in writing. - our position is against. more ‘retail-friendly’ legislation designed to eliminate risk, without realising this also stifles innovation and adds cost without reward. the consumer is already adequately covered by existing legislation and by common law, so it would be better to focus energy on improving enforcement rather than fiddling with the rules to create unnecessary harmonisation for its own sake. this regulation creates a new key information document (kid) to be produced by investment product manufacturers and provided to retail customers when they are considering buying investment products. the negotiations centred on the appropriate content and length of the kid, as well as to which products it would apply.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, also known as prips, that aims to make rules on information to be provided to small investors when making investment decisions. a key information document (kid) in standardised format would be produced to enable investors to compare products and to set out costs, risks, and other pertinent information. the proposal, which has been agreed in trialogue, originally had a wide scope which greatly concerned many investors and financial services providers; in particular the inclusion of many pension products was criticised as burdensome and even counter-productive. however, the final agreement, while not perfect, has greatly reduced the scope of the proposal, to the satisfaction of the uk.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on key information documents (kids). this report benefits investors as it consists of new eu rules that state that all small (non-professional) investors should be given three-page a4 standard format kids to help them to understand and compare packaged retail and insurance-based investment products (priips), and estimate the total cost of their investment as well as be aware of its risk-reward profile before signing a contract. kids should also be clearly separated from advertising materials, consistent with any binding contractual documents and prepared by a clearly identifiable entity that created the product. this report will also benefit eu society in general as where applicable, investors will also be informed whether their investment will contribute to any projects with environmental or social aims.
in writing. - ukip's position is against any further expansion of the ecj judiciary.
in writing. - i find it appalling that we are today again discussing the expansion and extension of the size and structure of the european court of justice. for too long already, this unaccountable court has defied national sovereignty and the right of member states to operate their criminal justice systems free of intrusion. my own constituency, northern ireland, is a region of the united kingdom. and across the uk, people only have to look at the number of local judgments and verdicts that have been usurped by european courts in a vast range of policy areas. this report cites the increase in cases being processed by the european court of justice. it calls for more judges and more specialist courts to consolidate the role it plays in uprooting the sovereignty of national judicial systems. this is completely unacceptable. it is only common sense for people to want laws to be made locally. it is also common sense to want crimes that are committed locally to be punished locally. subsequently, this move toward further integration of legal powers must be opposed.
in writing. - this report concerns the new proposal put before parliament in december 2013, whereby an additional 12 judges would be appointed to the general court. conservative colleagues were able to provisionally support the position at the time, with a view to concluding negotiations with the council, in lieu of other credible alternatives to improve the functioning of the court. it has not however been possible to agree a solution on how to appoint the new judges, even when the majority in parliament had been willing to underline that the competence lay with the member states to decide upon the modalities for appointment. without an agreement the parliament is asked to revert to the previous agreement, which does not make this important clarification. therefore, i could not support the agreement.
in writing. - the ecall is a device fitted to a car which automatically calls the emergency services in the event of an accident. last year the commission brought forward two legislative proposals for the mandatory introduction of the ecall system across europe. this particular agreement deals with how the necessary ecall infrastructure should be put in place by member states. i do not support its mandatory introduction and believe that the system should be voluntary. it is believed that there will be increased costs to the car industry and the consumer – a dft impact assessment indicated that mandatory ecall deployment could cost uk consumers gbp[nbsp ]300 million per year. moreover, the estimated date for implementation by the end of 2017 is seen as unrealistic and unfeasible. furthermore, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has raised further questions over data protection and the adequacy of the network coverage, which have not been sufficiently dealt with. ultimately, i am yet to be convinced that the evidence available suggests a significant improvement in survival rates in the uk by mandating ecall in all new types of cars and vans.
in writing. - i supported this agreement, which looks at improving the safety of european road users through introducing ecall technology. once in operation, this technology will allow for an emergency call to be generated from a crashed vehicle immediately after a road collision has occurred. data would then be transmitted to an ecall operator. the new technology reduces emergency services’ response time, by 50% in the countryside and 60% in built-up areas. and this is estimated to save around 2[nbsp ]500 lives in the eu every year.
in writing. - over the past ten years my constituency of northern ireland has undertaken a number of initiatives to improve the telecommunications infrastructure across the province, with the aim of improving the quality and extending the reach of broadband services. since 2008, over gbp[nbsp ]45 million has been poured into encouraging private sector upgrade to networks and gbp[nbsp ]21 million has been targeted at rural areas. it is now estimated that 83[nbsp ]% of premises and 80[nbsp ]% of all households across northern ireland are currently equipped with fixed-line super-fast services. small businesses are at the core of my constituency’s local economy, accounting for 99.9[nbsp ]% of all businesses in northern ireland and providing employment for around 347[nbsp ]000 people. therefore i welcome this report as high-quality digital infrastructure is a vital tool in enhancing economic activity and stimulating sme development in northern ireland and across the european union.
in writing. - the text agreed at first reading is vastly different to the commission's original proposal. the justification for this proposal was to present different regulatory approaches to broadband roll-out in member states leads to increased costs and hindering the development of innovative services that could run across borders. the final proposals respect subsidiarity grounds, and therefore, i could support this proposal and vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this regulation as it aims to greatly improve all eu citizens’ access to higher internet speed. this regulation guarantees all eu citizens to have internet speeds of above 30 mbps by 2020 and as a result all citizens will be kept up-to-date with the latest technology. this regulation also favours businesses and smes, as providing them with high-speed means that there will be an increase in competitiveness and growth. the commission also calculates that a 10% increase in broadband speed will raise the gdp by 1% or even 1.5%.
in writing. - this report updates the regulation governing an inland waterway fund for some member states in continental europe with inland waterways linked to those of another member state and whose total fleet tonnage is over 100[nbsp ]000 tonnes. the fund is administered by the national-level organisations representing inland waterways whose carriers are involved in this administration. the fund consists solely of financial contributions from national industry representatives. the inland waterway fund does not apply to the uk, since it is exempted by virtue of not having waterways linked to those of other member states and does not contribute any resources to the fund, nor can the uk benefit from the fund. accordingly, consistent with my position on this fund, i opted to abstain.
in writing. - ukip's position is against this extension of commission powers and budgets to interfere in how products are promoted. in particular, the report allows the commission to embark on multi-country programmes – a significant extension of its powers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on promotional measures for agricultural products today. it is imperative that we promote local products on the world stage, and i am glad to see that there will be gbp[nbsp ]165[nbsp ]million allocated to this programme in the coming years. the scottish food and farming industry has a reputation for quality that is well deserved. we need to ensure that we are doing all we can to boost scottish firms overseas to help create more jobs right here at home. this scheme will give local producers extra funding to boost their exports and win over thousands of new customers around the world. our place in britain and in europe means that scottish businesses are in line to benefit from the big increase in this support. i will now be working with more food and drink producers in scotland to encourage them to apply for protected status and for european funding.
in writing. - this proposed legislation updates the existing measures for the promotion of agricultural products, both on the internal market and in third countries and is complementary legislation to the other cap dossiers. the original commission proposal included a significant increase in funding, up to eur[nbsp ]200 million per year, primarily to increase the promotion of quality european food products. this funding will come from existing pillar[nbsp ]1 cap funding. the commission also wanted to focus primarily on external markets and remove the option for national government co-financing of projects, leaving the co-financing element to be funded by the organisations which make the applications for promotion funding. for the uk, changes have undermined the nature of the programme and have undermined its objectives to promote eu agricultural products on third-country markets. the inclusion of the crisis fund and the significant increase in internal promotion possibilities are likely to mean that very little of the budget is left for external promotion, which was the original aim of this proposal and the area where the most added value can be gained from this legislation. it was therefore my conclusion that i could not support the report, and i voted against.
in writing. - i strongly support – and voted in favour of – these proposed joint technology initiatives (jtis) and public-public partnerships (p2ps), as they have proven levels of research efficiency and effectiveness, as well as attracting high industrial participation compared to other areas of the eu’s research programmes, particularly amongst smes. i am particularly pleased that attempts by both the lead ppe and s&d negotiators to reduce substantially the money allocated to them from horizon 2020 were defeated. i view the programmes as a key priority in driving long-term industry participation, and, as the funding models used under the proposals generate a greater contribution from industry than would be the case under the usual horizon 2020 funding rules, the cumulative effect is more money spent on research. it was also important to ensure that the work programmes of each partnership met the criteria agreed under the overall horizon 2020 legislation, in order to guarantee the consistency of research priorities. in order to guarantee full scrutiny and transparency of the public expenditure, parliament insisted on separate discharge procedures for each programme.
in writing. - it is vital that as a parliament, we do all in our power to support those small and medium-sized enterprises that are seeking to invest in research and development activities. and as such, i support the focus of this report. in my own constituency, northern ireland, business expenditure on research and development in 2012 was the highest on record. and much of this has been down to the work of my colleagues in the department of enterprise, who have invested in measures supporting access to finance for smes. the committeeʼs report rightly emphasises the need to reduce bureaucracy and red tape for smes applying to eu-funded research programmes. it also proposes to increase the level of funds that can be used to cover administrative and project evaluation costs. this support is crucial in allowing smaller enterprises the opportunity to invest in research, apply the knowledge, and thus bring forward new and improved products and services. i also support the overall aim of allowing different member states to come together to support these activities in a coordinated manner. such innovation is key to our economic recovery.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eurostars programme is a european joint programme dedicated to aiding smes to innovate and invest in research and development. this report updates the programme and provides for more flexibility in the eligibility criteria to ensure a larger participation by smes. there are many smes in wales, many of whom are extremely innovative but lack the necessary funding to reach their true potential.
in writing. - i strongly support and voted in favour of these proposed joint technology initiatives (jtis) and public-public partnerships (p2ps) as they have proven levels of research efficiency and effectiveness as well as attracting high industrial participation compared to other areas of the euʼs research programmes, particularly amongst smes. i am particularly pleased that attempts by both the lead ppe and s&d negotiators to reduce substantially the money allocated to them from horizon 2020 were defeated. i view the programmes as a key priority in driving long-term industry participation, and as the funding models used under the proposals generate a greater contribution from industry than would be the case under the usual horizon 2020 funding rules, the cumulative effect is more money spent on research. it was also important to ensure that the work programmes of each partnership met the criteria agreed under the overall horizon 2020 legislation in order to guarantee the consistency of research priorities. to guarantee full scrutiny and transparency of public expenditure, parliament insisted on separate discharge procedures for each programme.
in writing. - i strongly support and voted in favour of these proposed joint technology initiatives (jtis) and public-public partnerships (p2ps) as they have proven levels of research efficiency and effectiveness as well as attracting high industrial participation compared to other areas of the euʼs research programmes, particularly amongst smes. i am particularly pleased that attempts by both the lead ppe and s&d negotiators to reduce substantially the money allocated to them from horizon 2020 were defeated. i view the programmes as a key priority in driving long-term industry participation, and as the funding models used under the proposals generate a greater contribution from industry than would be the case under the usual horizon 2020 funding rules, the cumulative effect is more money spent on research. it was also important to ensure that the work programmes of each partnership met the criteria agreed under the overall horizon 2020 legislation in order to guarantee the consistency of research priorities. in order to guarantee full scrutiny and transparency of the public expenditure, parliament insisted on separate discharge procedures for each programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the edctp partnership aims to accelerate the development of new or improved drugs, vaccines, microbicides and diagnostics against hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria, and other poverty related diseases. the focus is on clinical trials in sub-saharan africa. several amendments that my group submitted on the need to strengthen ethical review committees and the regulatory environment, as well as the need to promote equitable and universal coverage of quality health services, were adopted. my constituents in wales actively support the improvement of healthcare systems in developing countries.
in writing. - this is a positive proposal for the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership (edctp), and i voted in favour of the report. the first edctp programme (edctp-i 2003-2012) is now beyond its funding period and is therefore being extended in order to operate as part of the euʼs research programme horizon 2020. the budget for the partnership will be drawn from resources already allocated to horizon 2020. during negotiations the main political issues to resolve were to avoid separating the budgets into two pots which could have led to a significant underspend, and more importantly, to avoid burdening the programme with too many top-down targets. the majority of these ‘targetsʼ will now be used as indicators in the review, allowing the scientists to just concentrate on their research. as with the other jti and p2p programmes, parliament ensured that a separate discharge procedure was in place individually to increase the transparency of eu spending. the agreement also guaranteed the parameters of the mid-term reviews of the programme, and that it will be conducted in line with the overall mid-term review of horizon 2020.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. this regulation establishes a eu procedure for a protective measure which enables a creditor to obtain a european account preservation order (‘eapo’) preventing the withdrawal or transfer of funds held by the debtor in a bank account within the union. the eapo will be available to the creditor as an alternative to protective measures existing under national law in the member states. this is an unnecessary piece of legislation. as noted above, this is intended as an alternative to measures under national law. this is a matter which should be left to national parliaments, which can craft laws that are consonant with their commercial law.
in writing. - this report concerns the european account preservation order (eapo), which is a civil law instrument used in the recovery of debts. under this procedure, a creditor can freeze the assets of a debtor in another member state prior to recovering monies owed. this is a commonly used tool domestically, but as yet no european equivalent exists. as a consequence it is difficult for companies to recover monies owing, as they are faced with national regimes which are often quite different from their home systems. the eapo will therefore exist for cross-border purposes as a cost-reducing measure. the uk will not opt in to the eapo at present, due to concerns about how the instrument will work in practice, and whether the correct balance has been struck between protecting the debtor and affording sufficient rights to the creditor. in view of the uncertainty about its operation, i abstained on this report.
in writing. - our position is against. these are further burdensome and expensive regulations for uk business. also, the subject matter is material we do not consider necessary. they want to make large companies jump through hoops by providing huge amounts of further information to the public. as regards matters relating to reporting, a new recital sets out the main issues to be reported on. environmental information, for instance, will have to include greenhouse gas emissions, air pollution and the use of renewable energy. with reference to social and staff-related matters, the information should concern, amongst other things, the implementation of fundamental international labour organisation (ilo) conventions, working conditions and social dialogue. information relating to human rights and the fight against corruption, however, will have to include at least data concerning the prevention of human rights infringements and explanations as to the tools used by the undertaking to combat corruption and bribery.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which is an important step forward in terms of corporate social responsibility. it means citizens and investors will have access to information about companies. guidelines for companies on how to report under the new reform, including on water use, land use, greenhouse gas emissions and use of materials, are expected from the commission within the next two years. i know from bitter experience in wales that companies must take more responsibility for their actions.
in writing. - this aim of this report is to establish the new disclosure rules applicable to companies on non-financial information, such as policies around diversity, their environmental impact and efforts made to tackle corruption. in its initial form this proposal was criticised by the eu business taskforce as being too burdensome. conservative colleagues however, successfully moved the negotiations away from imposing costs on all large companies and towards instead a definition that limits its application to large listed companies. various concessions from the left which will allow companies to focus their reporting on the areas that are of most relevance to their operations were also won. i therefore supported this proposal and voted in favour of the report as it stands, representing a solid first-reading agreement which balances the desire for greater transparency for investors and shareholders with the need to avoid blanket disclosures which make separating the signal from the noise near impossible.
in writing. - this directive will establish a single eu procedure for the admission of non-eu nationals from a company based outside of the eu who are seeking a temporary transfer to a branch of that company inside an eu member state. only non-eu nationals who have a binding contract with a company based outside the eu qualify for an intra-corporate transfer. during negotiations many of the burdensome proposals regarding family reunification, the rights of family members to seek social security and employment in the host member state, and the right for employees to move to another member state from the one they were originally given permission to reside in, have been reduced or removed. nevertheless, the uk has opted out of this directive, as it believes that the needs of the labour market should be addressed by member states. i agree with this position, and therefore i abstained on the report.
in writing. - i strongly support and voted in favour of these proposed joint technology initiatives (jtis) and public-public partnerships (p2ps) as they have proven levels of research efficiency and effectiveness as well as attracting high industrial participation compared to other areas of the euʼs research programmes, particularly amongst smes. i am particularly pleased that attempts by both the lead ppe and s&d negotiators to reduce substantially the money allocated to them from horizon 2020 were defeated. i view the programmes as a key priority in driving long-term industry participation, and as the funding models used under the proposals generate a greater contribution from industry than would be the case under the usual horizon 2020 funding rules, the cumulative effect is more money spent on research. it was also important to ensure that the work programmes of each partnership met the criteria agreed under the overall horizon 2020 legislation in order to guarantee the consistency of research priorities. in order to guarantee full scrutiny and transparency of the public expenditure, parliament insisted on separate discharge procedures for each programme.
in writing. - i abstained on this report as despite containing some positive aspects on environmental research, none of the amendments that my group had submitted which would guarantee sustainability were adopted. the welsh government has a duty to consider sustainability in all its actions.
in writing. - i strongly support and voted in favour of these proposed joint technology initiatives (jtis) and public-public partnerships (p2ps) as they have proven levels of research efficiency and effectiveness, as well as attracting high industrial participation compared to other areas of the euʼs research programmes, particularly amongst smes. i am particularly pleased that attempts by both the lead ppe and s&d negotiators to reduce substantially the money allocated to them from horizon 2020 were defeated. i view the programmes as a key priority in driving long-term industry participation, and as the funding models used under the proposals generate a greater contribution from industry than would be the case under the usual horizon 2020 funding rules, the cumulative effect is more money spent on research. it was also important to ensure that the work programmes of each partnership met the criteria agreed under the overall horizon 2020 legislation in order to guarantee the consistency of research priorities. in order to guarantee full scrutiny and transparency of the public expenditure, parliament insisted on separate discharge procedures for each programme.
in writing. - i strongly support and voted in favour of these proposed joint technology initiatives (jtis) and public-public partnerships (p2ps) as they have proven levels of research efficiency and effectiveness, as well as attracting high industrial participation compared to other areas of the euʼs research programmes, particularly amongst smes. i am particularly pleased that attempts by both the lead ppe and s&d negotiators to reduce substantially the money allocated to them from horizon 2020 were defeated. i view the programmes as a key priority in driving long-term industry participation, and as the funding models used under the proposals generate a greater contribution from industry than would be the case under the usual horizon 2020 funding rules, the cumulative effect is more money spent on research. it was also important to ensure that the work programmes of each partnership met the criteria agreed under the overall horizon 2020 legislation in order to guarantee the consistency of research priorities. in order to guarantee full scrutiny and transparency of the public expenditure, parliament insisted on separate discharge procedures for each programme.
in writing. - i voted against this report as it provides for public subsidies to big pharmaceutical companies without containing any obligations or mechanisms for ensuring public sector return, such as access to research data, accessibility and affordability of medicines. in wales we need to make scientific expertise and information available to health professionals.
in writing. - i strongly support and voted in favour of these proposed ‘joint technology initiatives’ (jtis) and ‘public 2 public partnerships’ (p2ps), as they have proven levels of research efficiency and effectiveness as well as attracting high industrial participation compared to other areas of the eu’s research programmes, particularly amongst smes. i am particularly pleased that attempts from both the lead ppe and s&d negotiators to reduce substantially the money allocated to them from horizon 2020 were defeated. i view the programmes as a key priority in driving long-term industry participation, and, as the funding models used under the proposals generate a greater contribution from industry than would be the case under the usual horizon 2020 funding rules, the cumulative effect is more money spent on research. it was also important to ensure that the work programmes of each partnership met the criteria agreed under the overall horizon 2020 legislation, in order to guarantee the consistency of research priorities. in order to guarantee full scrutiny and transparency of the public expenditure, parliament insisted on separate discharge procedures for each programme.
in writing. - i strongly support and voted in favour of these proposed ‘joint technology initiatives’ (jtis) and ‘public 2 public partnerships’ (p2ps), as they have proven levels of research efficiency and effectiveness as well as attracting high industrial participation compared to other areas of the eu’s research programmes, particularly amongst smes. i am particularly pleased that attempts from both the lead ppe and s&d negotiators to reduce substantially the money allocated to them from horizon 2020 were defeated. i view the programmes as a key priority in driving long-term industry participation, and, as the funding models used under the proposals generate a greater contribution from industry than would be the case under the usual horizon 2020 funding rules, the cumulative effect is more money spent on research. it was also important to ensure that the work programmes of each partnership met the criteria agreed under the overall horizon 2020 legislation, in order to guarantee the consistency of research priorities. in order to guarantee full scrutiny and transparency of the public expenditure, parliament insisted on separate discharge procedures for each programme.
in writing. - i abstained in this vote as the report is not ambitious enough. we must fight climate change, and one way of doing this is ensuring that the hydrogen we use comes from renewable sources. wales has huge potential for the development of renewable energy.
in writing. - alternative green fuel sources have the potential to radically alter our fuel use and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i strongly support and voted in favour of these proposed ‘joint technology initiatives’ (jtis) and ‘public 2 public partnerships’ (p2ps), as they have proven levels of research efficiency and effectiveness as well as attracting high industrial participation compared to other areas of the eu’s research programmes, particularly amongst smes. i am particularly pleased that attempts from both the lead ppe and s&d negotiators to reduce substantially the money allocated to them from horizon 2020 were defeated. i view the programmes as a key priority in driving long-term industry participation, and, as the funding models used under the proposals generate a greater contribution from industry than would be the case under the usual horizon 2020 funding rules, the cumulative effect is more money spent on research. it was also important to ensure that the work programmes of each partnership met the criteria agreed under the overall horizon 2020 legislation, in order to guarantee the consistency of research priorities. in order to guarantee full scrutiny and transparency of the public expenditure, parliament insisted on separate discharge procedures for each programme.
in writing. - eu citizens should expect the euʼs institutions to behave in a fully transparent manner and this requires lobbyists to be accountable. i supported this report although i consider that there is much still to be done in bringing about adequate transparency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it provides key improvements to the transparency register in the european parliament. this means my constituents will be able to see whom i have met with and how many times, which is very important. labour would like this register to eventually become mandatory, but there are legal difficulties in this at the moment. therefore, we will continue to strive for the parliament to be as transparent as possible within the current framework.
in writing. - the report addresses the transparency register, which has been in place since 2011. it serves as a voluntary register of lobbyists operating in brussels, with registration facilitating easier access to the european parliament and the commission. it has recently been reviewed, to ensure that the rules in place are effective and efficient, and as a consequence of this review several adjustments are proposed. the main changes relate to the procedure for complaints and the incentive system to encourage organisations to sign up to the register. the report endorses these changes, and adds some suggestions for future revisions of the register, most notably that registration should be made mandatory for lobbyists seeking to influence legislation in brussels. this will improve the transparency of the legislative process, therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this proposal for a mandatory register for all ngos and lobbying organisations engaged in eu-policy making. this proposal is an important step forward for the transparency of the eu institutions, in the interests of european citizens, as it provides a stronger and a more binding mandatory register than that which was set up in 2011. besides requiring all registered lobbies to fully disclose ‘the identity of all clients represented’, this proposal also includes an incentive system which improves access to the parliament’s premises, help in contacting meps, easier authorisation for organising or co-hosting events on its premises, facilitated transmission of information and participation as speakers in committee hearings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which revises the current provisions for the tripartite social summit for growth and employment. the proposals include enabling social partners to contribute, via social dialogue, to the eu’s strategy for growth and jobs. this will be beneficial to my constituents in wales.
in writing. - the social partners have an important role to play in developing eu strategies and the tripartite social summit is a useful tool in that context. i welcome this report.
in writing. - the tripartite social summit (tss) is a meeting of representatives of the social partners, the commission and the council. it meets on the eve of the european council in spring and in autumn, to enable high-level discussions between the three parties on employment and social aspects of the european agenda for growth and jobs. while i acknowledge the value of dialogue at this level on issues related to the europe 2020 strategy which this summit can facilitate, there is a strong undercurrent seeking to strengthen the role of the social partners and this parliament. it calls for the social partners to be involved in the european semester process, while also calling for the relevant committee chairs to be invited to take part in the tripartite summit. for these reasons i cannot support the report, and voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this report as it is not objective. it blames the commission and the council for their behaviour during the negotiations but doesn’t recognise that the european parliament supported and voted on the mff regulation as negotiated by the heads of state and government. i voted against the budget as wales is a net beneficiary of the eu budget and any cuts in the eu budget are detrimental to wales.
in writing. - i voted against the call for eu own-resources as i consider that tax-raising powers should remain a member state competence.
in writing. - drawn up with a view to parliament reviewing the mff process and its outcome, this report seeks to put on the record parliament’s version of events, drawing political and institutional lessons while serving as a basis for the preparation of future negotiations, in particular the mid-term review as foreseen in the mff regulation by 2017. more specifically, while acknowledging the fiscal restraints of the member states, who are undertaking efforts to bring their budgets to a more sustainable level, the report expresses its disappointment that parliament was unable to revise upwards the figures agreed by the heads of state and government while lamenting what it sees as inadequate progress towards a new system of own resources. additionally, the report calls for the end of correction mechanisms (rebates) as well as the need to remove member states’ right of veto over the mff. for these reasons, i could not support the proposal, and voted against the report.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to start by paying tribute to our rapporteur on this topic. ria oomen-ruijten is very well known in this house – and indeed outside it – as a champion of the rights of cross-border workers. she will be sorely missed in parliament in the future. i thoroughly agree with her when she talks about the need for those taking up the right to free movement not to be penalised, and to be able to maintain occupational pension rights. but we have seen the difficulties caused by long vesting periods and the implications this also has for age limits on cross-border transfer. we have also seen the irony – i remember from one all-party group meeting on pensions in this house – of the pensions expert addressing us being somebody who, because of his work patterns – two years here, three years there in particular member states – had actually no acquired occupational pension rights whatsoever. what we have on the table here, while it is certainly not what many of us might have wished for, is nevertheless better. it is better in terms of the age dimension, the shorter vesting period and informed consent – the information that workers have to have – and certainly fairer in terms of the treatment of dormant rights. it has taken us a long time to get to this point. i think many of us would hope that we will see greater possibilities for transferability from one pension scheme to another – being able to take cash across and actually pay it into another scheme so that we avoid this kind of chopping, this fragmentation into different schemes. nevertheless i think what we have before us is welcome, and about time too.
madam president, one of the three policy options being discussed as a means of addressing problems around the acquisition and preservation of pension rights is legislation at european union level. nothing would alarm my constituency in the west midlands more than this. the use of best practices in a free and competitive market has always ensured the supremacy of the city of london in the financial services sector. competition and innovation have ensured that british businesses have always led the way. as the workforce becomes more mobile, it is to innovators – not legislators – that we look to find the answers to the new challenges. innovation creates; legislation stifles. in any case, the idea of having their pensions legislated by the same people who brought us the eurozone crisis would chill the hearts of most british people. my message to the european commission is this, to parody an old saying: go and legislate on your own doorstep. hands off our pensions!
madam president, i welcome this directive as a positive single market measure to protect mobile workers. supplementary schemes are becoming more and more important in many member states, so it is pertinent that an agreement in this area has finally been reached and that barriers to mobility, such as vesting and waiting periods, have been addressed. if someone has worked hard in one eu country and has taken the decision to put money aside into a supplementary pension scheme, they should be assured that they will not lose out by deciding to work somewhere else in the union or to live somewhere else in the union. they should also be provided with the necessary information to make an informed decision. this directive provides for that. it was sensible to confine the directive to cross-border issues, because at least now we have something very positive to go forward with and to use in this respect. it is a good thing that it is no longer stuck and that we have something agreed.
deputising for the rapporteur. - madam president, i am here this afternoon as the chairman of the committee, not as the appointed rapporteur. emily turunen, who is an extremely hardworking and competent member of our committee, did a very good job of trying to reach a good compromise. but in the end, the report of the committee – which did not reflect all her views – was adopted by a narrow majority. i see from my notes that we actually had 20 people in favour, 15 against and four abstentions. ms turunen asked me to withdraw her name from it, which i regretted. i did try to persuade her to come and talk about the matter. as far as the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is concerned, clearly, because of our role in the services directive, we are extremely sensitive to these issues. it will not surprise you to know, therefore, that there was a lot of focus on the relation between this and the ability to keep the single market moving forward, dealing with issues that have already been mentioned by the council and commission, identifying genuine posted workers, giving them access to information, and stepping up mutual cooperation. from our side, we feel it is really important to underpin confidence in the services directive with the measure which has now been put forward. that was the contribution we made, and i want to thank the rapporteur very much for considering our input into it.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, this is the final session of the current mandate and my final session as a member of the parliament. i will be leaving after 30 years and i would have liked to have ended my time as a member on a high note. unfortunately, i do not think this proposal is a high note. in my opinion, it is a bad piece of legislation. in september 1996, almost 20 years ago, we debated the original posting of workers directive. at that time, my region was a region of very high unemployment and many construction workers were going from the north of england to work off-the-books at construction sites in germany. i spoke in that debate as chair of the committee on employment and social affairs at that time, and this is part of what i said: ‘back in my constituency, week in and week out, people who have fallen foul of this situation bring their problems to me and my office; people who have suffered injury at work, who suddenly find that they have no legal employer, who cannot seek redress or compensation, people who are not only not paid for the work they have undertaken but find that their social security contributions have not been kept up by their supposed employer, or people who have virtually found themselves trapped, paying extortionate rents on tied accommodation controlled by their employer’. if we wind the clock forward almost 20 years, the reality facing many workers today is that they are recruited, say in poland or hungary or bulgaria, by a letterbox company based, say in cyprus, they are then sent to work perhaps for 10 weeks at flamanville in france, maybe 12 weeks building a stadium in glasgow, and a further 10 weeks at a nuclear power plant in finland. the fact is that this proposal will do nothing to stop those workers suffering the problems my constituents were suffering almost 20 years ago. there were three crucial articles in this proposal for my group: articles 3, 9 and 12. on article 3, the amendments tabled by my group were rejected in the committee on employment and social affairs. the amendments carried overwhelmingly on article 9, to allow member states to put in place the national control measures they deem necessary, were 95% rejected by council. the much-needed amendments carried in committee on article 12, on joint and several liability in subcontracting chains, were 100% rejected by council. article 9 is really quite shameful. the series of court of justice cases begun by the laval judgement created real legal uncertainty in this area of the law. this proposal should have been an opportunity to remove some of that legal uncertainty, but the only way employment ministers could reach agreement was to make article 9 as ambiguous as possible. can a member state add a new national control measure if they come across a new way of avoiding or circumventing the rules? in other words, is it an open or a closed list of national control measures? half the employment ministers are selling this as a victory back in their home member states because it is a closed list, and the other half are selling it as a victory because it is an open list. it will create more, not less, legal uncertainty. i hope members will not do the usual thing and simply follow their group whip lists on this. i hope they will pick up the proposal and read it for themselves – particularly article 9 – to see the problems for themselves and i hope that, having done that, they will reject this bad proposal.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this is an important directive which many of us thought we would not see come to fruition before the end of this mandate. i am therefore very pleased to be here speaking in advance of the final vote. i would like to thank all colleagues who worked extremely hard to get us to this point. this enforcement directive was proposed to deal with problems that had arisen from the original directive. this included insufficient cooperation between home and host member state, difficulties in establishing whether a posting is genuine, lack of sufficient information for workers – or posting companies for that matter – on rights and obligations, and inadequate sanctions for fraud and abuse. this directive looks at each of these problems and proposes measures to improve the current situation. all through this process we have been trying to find a balance: a balance between protecting posted workers and maintaining and developing the eu’s single market in services. this has been a difficult task but i think the majority of colleagues would agree that we have achieved this aim. i am not saying it is perfect but it will significantly improve the current landscape. for example, the list of indicative criteria will assist authorities to establish when a posting is genuine and to catch out letter-box companies. a single national website will provide information to both companies and workers. cooperation between home and host member states will be assured and will become central to the smooth operation of this system. member states will be allowed to put in place control measures but protectionism, which damages the single market, will be prevented through the ‘justified and proportionate’ requirement and also the information obligation to the commission. these safeguards are welcomed. member states will be allowed to introduce or maintain systems of joint and several liability in sub-contracting chains but they will also be allowed to take other measures instead. this flexibility recognises differences in member states’ legal systems and stops the heavy-handed, potentially damaging approach of imposing liability on all contractors in all sectors for the whole of the sub-contracting chain. this would have discouraged postings, discouraged contractors from using sub-contractors and damaged the single market, so this is a very important compromise. the aim of this directive is to tackle fraud, abuse and unfair competition, but it is also about protecting those companies and workers who comply with the rules. so if you are in favour of clearer rules, legal certainty and better enforcement then please support the trialogue outcome tomorrow and vote against all of the amendments.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, my government, the british government, recognises that the current legislation needs toughening up because of compromises, but is basically in favour. the rapporteur herself is unhappy with at least most of the amendments and is asking for a pass on the whole thing without the amendments. however, within that, the provision of services is already catered for because it is prohibited to prevent a worker in this situation, on grounds of residence or nationality, from working in another state by way of posting. the rapporteur’s latest brief emphasises workers’ rights when posted to another country, but surely that is a question of the national law of that country. if that is followed, why is there the need for extra legislation? let the national law take care of it. but that brings me unfortunately to the dreadful business of the laval case. that was 10 years ago now but it is still relevant. here you will remember a latvian firm won a contract to build an educational facility in sweden and brought in a team of latvian workers to do the job. by way of collective agreement, they undertook to pay those workers less than the swedish minimum wage, which was an act of law in sweden. the unions and the swedish government objected. they took it to the european court of justice and the european court of justice found in favour of the employers. when the employers and the unions in sweden objected further and said that they might take strike action, and was that not legitimate, was that not within the rule of law, was that not a right? then the ecj came back with the answer: yes, it is a fundamental right to strike, but not as fundamental as the right of free movement. if that is the way this project is going, it is descending into an orwellian nightmare and will come to grief quicker, rather than later.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and really pay tribute to the enormous amount of effort she put into this and to what to she has achieved. it is very important that we strike a balance: we need to support the cross-border provision of services, which strengthens the competitiveness of the single market, and we need to protect and give safeguards to the posted worker. in all of this, we must make sure that we do not make it difficult for small businesses. if regulation is too complex, it makes it difficult for smes to work across the european union. big business can employ lawyers and whomever else they need to ensure compliance. smes cannot, so we must make sure that they can take advantage of the opportunities provided by the eu single market. that is good for the economy as a whole, but it is also very good for those people who get work as a result. we want to make sure that those workers have the protections that are essential, but we do not want to make it impossible for smaller enterprises to get involved, to grow and to create jobs. the final agreement that we reached in trialogue is a good deal. it is good for workers because it will make it easier for them to be aware of their rights. it is good for businesses because it clarifies their responsibilities and helps them to avoid falling foul of employment laws of other member states. it is also good for the economy, because it ensures that companies can freely operate across europe. overall, we want to see fewer rules that are better enforced, rather than a book of red tape and employment law that would simply discourage the posting of workers and would harm the single market. we want to make the eu do less and do it better. i believe that this directive helps us to achieve that goal.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this decision recognises the importance of pan-european cooperation in the area of employment, most notably at a time when unemployment has reached record levels in some member states, and sections of the population are finding themselves stuck outside the labour market. public employment services are under immense pressure to deal with these issues, many of which are common across the union. this network will give them a platform to exchange information and share best practice. it will cement and formalise the current informal network and will increase coordination with other stakeholders, such as the committee on employment and social affairs and parliament. this will be particularly useful when member states are implementing eu initiatives such as the youth guarantee schemes. the ‘bench learning’ system will also enhance the efficiency of public employment services by identifying in which areas they are performing well and allowing others to learn from this. the network will support initiatives which aim to facilitate the transition from education to work. i push strongly for reference to be made to young people who are not in education, employment or training (neets) to make sure that they can first enter and then remain within the labour market. i am also pleased that the final text makes to reference to skills matching and skills shortages. identifying skill shortages should be a priority, in order to ensure that we are providing all our citizens, not only our young people, with the skills that they need to fulfil their potential in the labour market. this network can help us do this across the union. it will also help us better match job-seekers with vacancies, including vacancies in other member states, which will decrease unemployment and increase intra-eu mobility. the cooperation that this network facilitates will contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 aims for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this is an extremely important, positive decision and i would encourage all members to support it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur and others who have worked on this. it is true that when we are looking at issues around unemployment, questions about quality and information coming from the administrations have a really important role in this. this has a real impact on people’s lives. we should remember that access to high-quality public services is a strong part of the active inclusion agenda, so it is right that we learn from each other’s experience and really benefit from that. i think that the involvement of all member states is extremely important and, frankly, i find that the arguments that we have been having over this have been totally dispiriting. we have made a turf war out of something which really should be common sense, namely that we do need to be developing the experience and to be giving people a better experience, whether that is dealing – as people have mentioned – with the youth guarantee and youth employment or questions about long-term unemployment and also particularly in relation to vulnerable groups. i think we all believe that cooperation with relevant stakeholders will also add something to this network. that will include not only the regional and local employment offices but also organisations which, for example, represent the unemployed and vulnerable workers. so we hope that we can get over this hiccup at the start and move on to have something that is going to be very constructive.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i hate to break this northern european consensus here, but we do have to deal with this problem sensibly. does anybody actually enjoy seeing the evidence of our collective addiction to plastic bags littering the countryside, littering the cities, choking our wildlife? no, of course not. this is not what we are here to grandstand about. we all agree with that. the point is how are we going to deal with it and how are we going to deal with it properly? where we differ over this is not the ends: it is the means of getting there. i would like to congratulate mr potočnik on his proposal, which i think sets out a very reasonable and very useful set of methods by which we can get to the point where we have significantly, indeed almost completely, eliminated our use of plastic bags. but we have to be realistic about this. people in this parliament seem to be very fond of compulsion, the idea that we have to make people do things. this report clearly gives the tools by which member states can do it and, as has already been said, many member states have already started along this road, so there is no reason to believe that others are not going to follow if they are given the toolkit and the suggestions of how this should be done. firstly, i would like to say that i do not believe in mandatory targets. the impact assessment does not support mandatory targets without reservation. it quite clearly states that it is one of the things that can be done. i do not support mandatory charging either. again, it is one of the things which can be done, but it is not the only thing and it is not something that member states should be compelled to do if they do not think it is the right way forward in their own countries. i also do not support the mandatory switch from plastic to biodegradable. that does not mean though that i should be characterised, as mr eickhout said, as some kind of dinosaur. not at all. it is how you get there. there is an adage that you catch more wasps with honey than you do with vinegar and i suggest they think about it.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, no matter how well intentioned the proposal to restrict the use of single-use carrier bags may be, there is a major unintended consequence that has been overlooked. the exemption of degradable plastic bags from this legislation will encourage the use of this product without thinking through what is likely to happen to degradable bags in the real world. in a high proportion of cases they will be mixed up and disposed of together with conventional plastic bags and arrive at premises such as those of my constituent jessica baker, whose firm chase plastics recycles plastics into products which must not degrade, such as damp-proof plastic membrane film used in the building of new houses. the 30 employees of this longstanding firm could quickly be recycled into ex-employees if their product does not perform to specification. this business is one of hundreds of similar firms across the eu which will not be able to guarantee the integrity of their product because of the near certainty of add mixture with degradable materials. their customers will turn to china or elsewhere for the supply of a reliable product. the recycling industry actually purchases waste plastic, thereby ensuring that there is a real incentive not to dump or fly-tip this material. the advent of degradable plastic is a significant breakthrough and is the obvious solution to the problem of waste plastic that becomes contaminated by soil and vegetative matter. this makes it a very expensive candidate for the recycling industry when the capital costs of a washing plant, of the significant quantities of water required and the disposal of the dirty water are all taken into account. the obvious example here is in agriculture where large quantities of plastic are used for silage wrap and on field crops for frost protection. furthermore there is space on farms to store the massive bulk of this material as it undergoes the degradation process. the commission has set itself on a course that will damage both sectors of the industry: the promotion of degradable plastic will encourage third-country cowboys into that industry, undercutting the genuine manufacturers with a product which fails to degrade properly or worse still contains chemicals not allowed here. meanwhile large stocks of plastic waste will accumulate because the recyclers cannot trust its provenance, but only a proportion of these stocks will actually degrade. what will seriously degrade, of course, is the british recycling industry. the road to hell is paved with good intentions and the green lobby in the european union demonstrate this time and time again.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. - mr president, we face a challenging number of irregular migrants crossing our southern seas in overloaded and unseaworthy boats. armed conflicts in africa have increased this flow. that it was left to the european court of justice to shame member states into a more humanitarian approach to this challenge says little for our civilisation. carlos coelho has done a good job to restore europe’s reputation. he has strengthened in this measure the rights of those who risk their lives to save themselves and has prohibited push-backs at sea and the return of individuals to countries where they risk serious harm. these new rules should improve surveillance of our sea borders and strengthen coordination within frontex. they must be accompanied by robust policies for asylum and legal migration and, as we enter an election campaign, we must maintain a sense of perspective: the 30[nbsp ]000 arrivals last year compared to over 300[nbsp ]000 at ellis island a century ago. that island became a symbol of hope and freedom. unless we reform, lampedusa risks entering our lexicon as a stain on our humanity.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and shadows. the purpose of this report is to reduce red tape by making it easier, quicker and cheaper for people and companies to re-register their vehicles when moving across eu borders. this is one of top ten complaints by eu citizens when moving to another member state: re-registering vehicles is complex, difficult, burdensome and costly. the changes in this report have the potential to make it simpler for citizens and make our roads safer. these are positive measures which we should be focusing on and fighting for. sadly, instead, some members on the right of this house have chosen to deliberately distort this technical file for their own ends. let me be very clear: uk number plates will not be axed by the eu; there will be no compulsory eu number plate and yes, people in scotland will still be able to put the saltire on their number plates if they choose. i hope that in the future, in the next parliament, we will see a speedy resolution and it is a pity that the council walked out of this chamber when we were starting to discuss this. that was a real pity.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the complexity of re-registration of cars when one moves abroad is certainly a concern for european union citizens and i have actually received letters myself from constituents who have struggled with this issue in the past. the european union is not just about the big issues of fighting climate change, fighting crime, boosting the economy, but we also have to work together to get a better deal for our citizens on things like solving problems such as difficulties in re-registering cars. i agree with the commissioner that this is also a blockage to the single market. however, we have seen, as ms[nbsp ]stihler has just said, people to the right of the house, particularly in the united kingdom – and i do absolve mr[nbsp ]harbour from this accusation entirely – running scared of ukip and jumping on a story in the daily mail and daily express which said that there was an eu plot to axe uk number plates. to my horror, i heard this story myself repeated on national radio – on the most popular stations on national radio – on friday morning over breakfast and i thought what is going on here? i had a look at what was going on and i found that actually there was an innocuous amendment suggesting that sometime in the future we might look at some of these ideas: thinking out loud almost, looking for ways of addressing the problem. the liberal democrats believe that a common eu number plate is completely unnecessary, but that is not the point: the story in the british press was completely wrong and i hope the british press will recognise that. the scaremongering of some of malcolm’s colleagues – not malcolm, i do impress on you – over a vague suggestion shows that their real struggle is to have a clear message on europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, as chairman of the committee and also since this will be the last speech that i will make in the chamber this evening, i will perhaps keep a fairly dignified silence on some of the stories in the british paper, though i thank mr bennion and ms stihler for covering those issues. i just want to make some broader points about the way that the council has handled this whole affair, because this seems to me to be something that we should learn from. on 14 february, i wrote to mr papastravou, the greek ambassador, saying that the issues that the council now wants an impact assessment on – which are issues about tax losses in countries which sustain very high registration taxes for vehicles – were there when we started looking at this proposal 18 months ago. my committee, characteristically, under the enlightened, energetic and sometimes slightly exotic leadership of my good friend toine manders, has done this very thoroughly. we have had public hearings and we have engaged the commission, but the issues that the council wants to tackle, with its impact assessment, were there 18 months ago. frankly, the inability of the council of the european union to take any strategic view whatsoever on legislation before it comes to this house is absolutely incredible. one thing we should learn from this – and i am sure the commissioner will support me – is that we have to reform the council of the european union as a better and stronger partner for us in codecision. otherwise we are not going to make any serious progress. that is the big lesson that i learned from this proposal and i share it with you from my perspective of having been chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for five years. i just want to conclude by thanking the commission for taking up the interests of citizens. we asked for the top 20 complaints of citizens in accessing their rights under the single market, and the bureaucratic inefficiencies in car transferring regulations were among those at the top of the list. the commission has acted on it. why should the member states be deliberately frustrating this? why should they be so inefficient about it? but actually – and i say this finally to my friend toine manders – a focused proposal, without some of his more exotic ideas about rfid and number plates, would actually have helped us. i do not blame him for that but, he has seen the consequences of it in the daily express newspaper. madam president, thank you very much for indulging me slightly, since it was my last opportunity, but i want to say to my colleagues here tonight that it has been a great pleasure working with them. i reflect that, when i first spoke late into the night in this chamber, it was with your distinguished predecessor erkki liikanen, who always used to complain that on these single market matters the only people there were the commissioners, the members and the ushers and that we were normally outnumbered by the ushers. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, let me congratulate danny cohn-bendit on a typically bravura performance. even if as usual – and he would be shocked if i did – i did not agree with a word of it, it was as usual magnificently delivered and i am sure we will miss his speeches in this chamber. it is perhaps appropriate that what may be the last contributions of mr daul, mr swoboda and as we heard, mr cohn-bendit, should be in a solemn debate to reflect on the past. whilst we have many political differences which i am sure we will continue to argue about in future forums on future occasions, i think i would like first of all to put those aside today to express my respect for their work and for their contributions to life in this chamber. politicians are all too easily and frequently criticised, as mr farage is finding out in the british press this morning, but i believe there is nothing more noble or honourable than devoting a life to public service and seeking to create a better world through robust, democratic, argument and debate about ideals sincerely held, even if they are not necessarily ideals which i hold. so i would like to pay tribute to them today for the work that they have done. the first world war was, in the words of fritz stern, the first calamity of the 20th century, the calamity from which all other calamities sprang. the sheer cost in terms of human sacrifice mean we should be obliged to remember in our private thoughts, in our public words, all those who gave up so much in that struggle – their lives, their health, their families, their property, their way of life. the first world war may not have been the first industrial war, nor was it the first global war or even the first civilian war, but it was all of those things on a previously unimaginable scale. its impact and reach were of a new magnitude: looking at the numbers of dead, the casualty rates, the 54[nbsp ]000 soldiers remembered at the menin gate at ypres, whose bodies have never been discovered. it is hard to comprehend now the full impact of that war on society in those days, but behind all the numbers of course are the human stories. each of those 54[nbsp ]000 had a mother, a father, many of them a wife, and many of them children. the first world war touched farming families in india; it touched factory workers in australia. the first world war shaped our modern world today, and in many respects we are still living in its shadow. but even now it is possible that some countries still refuse to learn the lessons. they try to get what they want by force, by threats, by creating a false sense of grievance to whip up domestic opinion and to provide a pretext for military action. tactics that we had hoped never to see again deployed in our continent are being used right now just beyond the frontiers of some of our member states. in 1914 it was not clear what the democratic world wanted, what it would accept and what it expected of others, and what it was prepared to do to defend those ideals. these are mistakes that we must not repeat again. but as we reflect on the horror of the first world war we can also in my view take inspiration from some of the individuals who in tragic circumstances pointed to a better world. i am thinking of people like edith cavell, the nurse who helped soldiers on all sides and was eventually executed for helping a group of allied soldiers to escape. she became an inspiration for women’s rights. i think of the first black soldier to command white soldiers in the british army, a man called walter tull. an action that would seem normal to us today was truly revolutionary in those times and helped take some of the first tentative steps towards a new era of equality. walter tull was a particular hero of mine because he was also a professional footballer, albeit for tottenham hotspur. he was only the second black professional footballer in the entire english league which of course reminds me of the famous story of the 1914 christmas day truce that perhaps best sums up how humanity can shine through even the darkest days. ordinary people putting their differences aside and meeting on the football pitch in no-man’s-land instead. history does not recall who won that game, but i am sure the germans won on penalties! as we head into an election campaign where all of us will be straining to highlight every difference and to demonstrate all of our divisions, events like this actually serve as a useful reminder to all of us that sometimes what unites us far outweighs what divides us. and since the chain of events that began in sarajevo 100 years ago, we have learnt that when we have differences we can find peaceful ways of resolving them. it is one of the greatest achievements of western civilisation that must never be taken for granted. it is the legacy of all those who have suffered during the 20th century, and in my view it is a legacy that we should honour to this day. (applause)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in his introduction president barroso said that the first world war was an industrial war. indeed, you have only got to drive two hours up the a4 motorway from here and visit the battlefield at verdun to see exactly what he was talking about. for those who have not visited, i think it is probably the grimmest battlefield on the western front or indeed anywhere in the world, and certainly the grimmest i have visited. it was something that had such a huge psychological effect on france that it very much dominated the thinking of monnet and schuman post-1945 – that this awful thing must never happen again. those of us in politics will all remember that famous photograph of a quite large german chancellor kohl and a rather small french president mitterrand holding hands, standing in front of the ossuary at douaumont. the whole european project comes from the disaster that was sparked by the first world war. it is entirely understandable that people should have sought ways to prevent such awfulness. the difficulty is that they chose the wrong target. monnet and schuman decided – and this view is shared today by mr barroso, mr[nbsp ]cohn-bendit and others – that it was the existence of the nation state that led to war and therefore we had to abolish the nation state. actually, what we should have focused on, post-1945, was not the abolition of states, but making sure that the european states were democratic, because democratic nation states do not go to war with each other. so i have to say that i believe the whole european project is based on a falsehood. it is potentially a dangerous falsehood, because if you try to impose a new flag, a new anthem, president, army, police force, foreign policy – and whatever else – without first seeking the consent of the people, you are in danger actually of creating the very nationalisms and resentments that you sought to snuff out in the first place. we have done all this before. we did it after the first world war in the balkans. we said that we could not have all these little balkan states going around fighting with each other. we said that we should bring them together and give them one flag, one anthem and one president and call it yugoslavia. it led to horrific wars from 1990 and the deaths of tens of thousands of people, as they fought to get out of a false state. the european union is making a very similar mistake, because there is no consent for this project. i have heard people this morning talking about the need for a united states of europe on a federal model. you can only have that if people give consent for it, and nobody has done so. when the eu put the constitution to the peoples of europe – the first time it really came clean with the electors – they rejected it. i am not against europe, but i am against this europe. i want a europe of independent, sovereign nation states that trade together, work together and cooperate together. i believe the european elections this year will mark a turning point. the tide is turning. the eu is backing an outdated model that seeks to get rid of a problem that actually has not existed since 1945.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, each time we debate ukraine the situation is worse than before. we are witnessing now the second phase in president putin’s aggressive plan to partition or swallow up the whole of ukraine based on a pack of lies. putin is a clever operator, and he knows how to stage the attacks in eastern ukraine with the right balance of special forces and home-grown activism. it is an insult to our intelligence to hear from foreign minister lavrov that russia plays no part in this. the revanchist insurrection currently being witnessed in the donbas region is unprecedented. it seems to have sprung up virtually overnight, when all students of politics regarding sub-state nationalism know full well that genuine movements need many years of development, in the face of profound state oppression, to take root. there is no state oppression in eastern ukraine whatsoever. the people are free to speak whatever language they choose and to live their lives as they see fit. to assert that the eastern ukrainians are facing systematic human rights violations is nothing less than an insult to those countless minorities around the world whose rights are genuinely under attack. besides, a perceived lack of language/cultural rights cannot under any circumstances justify foreign invasion and – as in the case of crimea – outright illegal annexation. the appropriate forum to resolve these differences is via elections, representation and negotiations, not a paramilitary barricade. putin believes that he can get away with it, but the west must not allow a democratic potential future eu member state to be carved up or destroyed under our very noses. we must continue diplomacy, of course, with the kremlin, but the eu economic sanctions regime must now, at the same time, be intensified to iran-style levels and ukraine should be given the means militarily to defend itself. too many people in europe remember only too well what happens when tyrannies wilfully disregard the sovereignty of free states and the wishes of their peoples. the past of the previous century must not be repeated on our continent.
mr president, we are hearing the 1914 language of self-righteous indignation to imply that one side is completely in the right and the others completely in the wrong. we might not like mr yanukovych – and there is much about him i do not like, if it is true – but his removal as president did not fall within the categories in article 108 of the constitution of ukraine, and the procedure for impeachment in article 111 was not followed. the civil disturbances in ukraine were orchestrated from the eu when yanukovych rejected the eu trade agreement. this was just as much interference in ukraine, and with less justification, than anything that russia has done. the taped conversation of victoria nuland and geoffrey pyatt about who should lead ukraine was evidence of blatant us interference. it is all very well to call a referendum held by the crimean autonomous republic illegal, but this was no more illegal than the removal of mr[nbsp ]yanukovych. crimea had traditionally been part of russia since the 18th century, until 1954 when it was handed over by mr khrushchev, a soviet leader of ukrainian descent. the recent referendum was hurried and insufficiently debated, but the result was hardly ambiguous. large powers, like russia and the united states, have what they see as legitimate spheres of interest. the united states was not going to allow soviet missiles in cuba in 1962. russia was not prepared to accept with equanimity a member of the eu and nato within its traditional borders. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i found it difficult to find a question within what mr[nbsp ]posselt said, but i have never defended everything that mr[nbsp ]putin has done or said. what i have said is that there has been interference in ukraine, both by the west – by the united states and the eu – on the one hand, and by russia, on the other.
blue-card question. – mr[nbsp ]meyer insists on calling it a coup d’état orchestrated by the west, the united states and the european union, which is the biggest load of nonsense i have ever heard. would he not accept that it was the ukrainian parliament or rada which voted to dismiss yanukovych in a bill of impeachment? he did not show up; he abandoned his post and fled to russia. surely that is a legitimate dismissal of a president who now stands accused of murdering his own citizens?
mr president, mr putin says that ukraine may be on the verge of civil war, but the question only he can answer is whether it will be, not civil war, but war. indeed in three ways the russian president shows the same ‘maskirovkaʼ – masking of insignia – as his own soldiers. if rebels had seized police stations, security services and government buildings in chechnya, i wonder if he would have been so quick to defend their right to be there and call it a peaceful protest. if he is worried about minorities, how will he defend the rights of tatars in crimea, especially as the report of the un high commissioner for human rights yesterday said that there are no widespread or systematic attacks against the ethnic russian community in ukraine? if he is so keen to cut off arms supplies to what he calls a region of conflict, why does he not do the same to syria? with others, i wish success to the four-way talks due tomorrow. europe must signal a clear readiness for third-phase sanctions. and i say that the best way to defend ukraine’s territorial integrity, if it is to be given a chance, is to support successful and peaceful elections across a united country.
in writing. – the situation in ukraine is already a grave crisis, and there are no easy answers, nor should we in the eu seek to take sides. our values are clear: democracy, rule of law and human rights and respect for diversity. it is clear that all sides in ukraine have fallen short of late, but that should not compromise our values nor our need to act to defend them when war threatens our closest borders. it is quite clear that russia has broken international law in annexing crimea, and russian-inspired unrest is destabilising the rest of an already unstable country. this can only degrade further unless the international community acts. while sanctions are a welcome start, these must be escalated to give the geneva talks an added urgency.
mr president, thank you very much for taking the point of order. this is about the third massive voting list that we have had, for a parliament which is at the very end of its mandate. i would put it to you that this is wholly undemocratic but fully in keeping with the wholly undemocratic approach of this parliament. (applause from the efd group and boos from other members)
mr president, can i just remind members of my group not to follow the voting list in the bundle, but to follow the separate voting list that has been distributed on this report.
mr president, we are often told – and it is perfectly true – that the free movement of labour is a basic pillar of the european treaties. i accept that membership of the european union means the right to work in another country, but it does not follow that free movement means entitlement to benefits, let alone to pension rights. that is not something that was fundamental in the single european act or implied in the treaty of rome. it has been created interpretively by a series of acts of contentious judicial activism in a number of court judgments and commission extensions of jurisdiction. i cannot – and nor can any representative in this place – justify to his or her constituents the need for some inward migration of people if there is a belief that you will then have an entitlement to draw on a pot which others have filled.
in writing. - the objective of this directive is to further facilitate worker mobility between member states by improving the acquisition and preservation of supplementary pension rights of members of those supplementary pension schemes. the member states shall take all necessary steps to ensure that (a) where a vesting period or a waiting period, or both is applied, the total combined period shall under no circumstances exceed three years for outgoing workers, and (b) where a minimum age is stipulated for the vesting of pension rights, that age shall not exceed 21 years for outgoing workers. this directive does not call into question the right of member states to organise their own pension systems. member states retain full responsibility for the organisation of such systems, and when transposing this directive into national law they are not obliged to introduce legislation providing for the setting up of supplementary pension schemes. for all of these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - it has recently been reported that approximately 2.2 million uk citizens are retiring, living and working in other eu member states. not only is this indicative of the advantages that freedom of movement can bring to uk citizens, but it also highlights the need to ensure that those working outside of the uk do not miss out on any of their pension rights. this report goes a good way to ensuring that this is not the case, and i am pleased therefore to support it. it should also be welcomed, and emphasised, that this has been achieved without in any way curtailing the right of individual member states to organise their own pension systems, and does not introduce any additional obligations on them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which concerns pension rights. it will be of great use to eu workers moving to a different eu country, as they will now be able to take their full pension rights. this proposal is a big step forward for the free movement of workers and a boost for a social europe. i also voted for this proposal because a good pension is a necessity, now that europeans have a much higher life-expectancy rate.
mr president, ten years ago the president of the european commission said that the european union was going to stop legislating unnecessarily and withdraw directives in fields that could be left to the member states. look at the size of our voting list today. look at some of the things we are voting on. this is a very good example: controls and activities performed to ensure the application of food and feed law, rules on animal health and welfare, plant health, plant reproductive material, plant protection products. we have spent a record time voting. we are having an unprecedented extra voting session this evening to get through this mass of legislation, despite all the promises about doing less and doing it better. why do we have this volume of work? it is impossible to repress the suspicion that the authorities in parliament are worried about the composition of the new parliament; that, as a result of the european election, there will be a different complexion in this house; there will be people who are opposed to giving more and more powers to the european union, regardless of the case for doing so. therefore we have this rush to try and get everything through while there remains a federalist majority in this chamber. that is an attempt to subvert – or at least to sidestep – the democratic process and i, for one, find it deeply disquieting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as many amendments that were tabled by my group were adopted, such as more transparency, minimum measures for monitoring and surveillance of gmos and many good amendments on animal welfare and seeds. i have received many e-mails from constituents who are concerned about what the eu is doing to ensure the welfare of our animals as well as the production of food and the protection of our plants.
in writing. - julie girling mep on behalf of the uk conservative delegation: uk conservatives are pleased with today’s vote result. we fought hard to ensure that the levying of fees remains a decision for member states to make. this was crucial for us – we must be able to take account of the different systems and economic conditions in place across the eu – in terms of respecting subsidiarity. the imposition of mandatory fees would have increased costs to uk industry by gbp[nbsp ]48 million per year, with a massive administrative burden but no improvements to fairness. with regard to micro-enterprises, i am pleased to report that this is also up to member states to decide, and even then only based on objective and non-discriminatory criteria. the narrowing of the scope to exclude plant health, seeds and pesticides is one downside and could result in different standards being applied to official controls in the same premises. an exemption for primary producers was adopted and means uk farmers won’t have to bear the costs of inspections, which they already contribute to via the cap, alleviating a hefty financial burden for uk farmers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will help ensure that the horsemeat scandal does not happen again. these proposals will toughen up the rules on food inspections and will impose strict penalties for those involved in food fraud. making sure rules are tight on animal welfare is crucial to protect consumers. as vice-president of the intergroup of animal welfare, i believe it also ensures that basic animal welfare provisions are universally upheld.
in writing. - although the existing legislative framework on official controls verifying compliance with feed and food law, animal health and welfare rules has largely proven effective in preventing and countering risks, the modern global market, with extended, more complex agri-food chains, increasingly exposes the eu to new risks and calls for improved control measures. the ecr welcomed the commission proposal and viewed it as an opportunity to substantially simplify controls and ensure that they target the highest risks. however, in committee the rapporteur negotiated numerous consolidated amendments which introduce a series of unhelpful and obstructive revisions to the commission text, which i broadly do not support. further, according to a draft impact assessment undertaken by defra, the terms of this amendment could increase costs to uk industry alone by gbp[nbsp ]48 million per year and generate gbp[nbsp ]30 million per year in administrative burden, due in no small part to the calculation and collection of mandatory fees. amendments tabled by the conservative shadow rapporteur to address the concerns raised above on the scope, rules, transparency and frequency of official controls passed, therefore i could support the report and voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation on official controls, which is part of a package of measures relating to animal and plant health. this regulation will be of great benefit to wales, since it provides a framework for the way in which inspections and other official controls along the agri-food chain should be organised, and it should also simplify the current rules. this proposal will also benefit the agricultural sector, as it aims to strengthen controls to deter fraud in the wake of the horsemeat scandal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to harmonise existing rules on official controls while ensuring they remain rigorous and fair. measures adopted by meps include restoring the requirement for an official veterinarian to be present in abattoirs and cutting plants and a specific focus on evidence of fraud during inspections. following the horsemeat scandal, it is clear that we need to crack down on those who deliberately seek to mislead consumers, so i voted in favour of stringent financial penalties for fraud. official controls are vital for food safety, so we need to be sure that they are properly funded and not cut back as part of austerity measures. however, i believe it should ultimately be up to the member states to determine how they finance inspections, and i voted in favour of an amendment exempting small and medium-sized businesses from fees, as i do not want to see small companies subjected to an additional cost that many will struggle to afford.
mr president, this report is ambitious in its scale and scope, reducing 70 separate regulations into just one. this is of value in clarifying the various areas of responsibility of each eu institution, explaining them more clearly while simultaneously reducing – to some extent – red tape in the execution of the responsibilites. with this in mind, i am supportive of the report, and my delegation voted in favour. there are, however, a few areas of concern. while not exhaustive, these include the possibility of member states implementing temporary trade barriers and the reference to laboratories and to their duties, as well as the inclusion of stray animals and anti-microbial resistance to the disease categorisation list in the annex of the regulation. nevertheless, these proposals contain important measures aimed at ensuring the health of animals, which is crucial to ensuring not only food standards everywhere and their safety but also the proper care and welfare for animals which, as a longstanding supporter of animal rights, i am very much in favour of.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i am a long-standing campaigner on animal welfare and it is an issue that is extremely important to my constituents in wales. i have been calling for there to be a commissioner for animal welfare in the new commission, someone who would be responsible for all issues concerning animals.
in writing. - the british conservative delegation has grave concerns about a number of aspects of the report as adopted in plenary, particularly regarding disease categorisation. we believe that disease categorisation needs to be flexible, rapid and responsive to scientific opinion. we do not agree with the use of delegated acts in the area of disease categorisation and we believe that implementing acts, which involve the agreement and input of veterinary experts from each member state, would be much more appropriate, especially in emergency cases where speedy decisions are required. we also oppose efforts to create eu legislation on the management of stray animals and the identification and registration of dogs by 2018. we believe that once the eu has powers to legislate on stray dogs, this power could extend to all domestic/pet animals. we believe this is a member state competence. finally, although we recognise that the issue of antimicrobial resistance is important and certainly does need addressing, we do not believe it should be addressed in this report; we would rather see this explored further in the upcoming veterinary medicines directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because we need to strengthen the existing standards on animal and plant health. i agreed with the proposals, which largely delivered on a modernised and simplified approach to dealing with these issues. i also approved of the fact that it cut food chain legislation from almost 70 separate pieces to just five. we need to deliver on animal welfare and make sure the eu has the highest standards we can achieve, but it should be done with the least impact on farmers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation, which forms part of the ‘animal and plant health package’, which the commission adopted in may 2013. its framework aims to provide a modernised, simplified and more risk-based approach to dealing with animal and plant health, cutting food chain legislation from almost 70 items to just five. among other things, this regulation strengthens the enforcement of health and safety standards for the whole agri-food chain, which will be of great benefit for the welsh agriculture sector. with the regulation’s approach based on the principle that ‘prevention is better than cure’, this regulation aims to focus on improving animal identification/registration, establishing a common system to detect and control disease, introducing categorisation/ prioritisation rules and ensuring that those working with animals (farmers, vets, etc.) have the resources to react quickly in the event of disease occurrences. at the same time, it aims to provide flexibility, so that measures can be adjusted according to local circumstances (the size and type of an establishment, the training of personnel, etc.).
in writing. - i was pleased to see that the plenary reversed the committee on agriculture’s position, which called for a closed system for imports of plants and plant products into the eu. in practice, the vote today will mean that we continue to operate the current system for imports which is more proportional to the risks. the report will ensure we now move towards a system which will entail faster decision making, better risk targeting and further co-operation between plant health inspectorates across the eu.
in writing. - this legislation seeks to protect plants in the eu from the introduction of pests from third countries, and in many ways is fairly balanced. it includes provisions for increased border checks for the introduction of plant varieties and allows the commission the ability to designate priority pests which pose a risk to plant health in the eu. however, the committee on agriculture approved a series of french-sponsored amendments which fundamentally change the eu’s approach to the import of plant varieties. the current ‘open’ system, where anything can be imported as long as it does not pose a threat to plant health in the union is replaced by a ‘closed’ list, whereby nothing can be imported unless it has first been approved for import to the eu. this could have dramatic effects on the eu market, including on the cost of food. depending on the time needed to approve new varieties, it would mean that effectively the imports of many plant varieties, including fruits from non-eu countries, would be banned. the conservative shadow rapporteur successfully tabled amendments to address the aforementioned issues, and therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted against this report as it does not bring sufficient improvement in terms of consumer protection. the report only allows eu products to be labelled with reference to the eu or a member state, therefore products would not be labelled ‘made in walesʼ, but rather ‘made in the ukʼ. we are proud of the excellent produce from wales and labelling is an important form of marketing. it is beneficial for our economy to sell welsh produce.
in writing. - i voted against the requirement for products to carry a country of origin, a requirement which has little to do with consumer safety. under this clause, eu products must carry either a union made label or the name of the member state. this currently precludes a made in scotland label and will cause unnecessary expense for scottish manufacturers when that label will become necessary after a successful vote for independence.
in writing. - on behalf of myself and the european parliamentary labour party, we voted to support the proposal on consumer products because safety requirements for consumer products vitally needed to be reviewed and updated. it is regrettable that construction products were not included in the final scope, especially with regard to origin labelling. however, this report will introduce more effective and quicker action in the case of risks to consumers’ health and safety.
in writing. - this proposal amends the existing legislation on general product safety, which is considered one of the top 10 most burdensome eu laws. it covers eu safety legislation for all non-food consumer products (both new and used, except for antiques) and includes products that are used by consumers but not intended for them. it also extends to products made available to consumers through a service provider (such as a hairdryer used by a hairdresser on a consumer). the rapporteur’s amendments generally added burdensome requirements and expanded the scope. controversial elements include mandatory origin marking on all products, which the uk is strongly against due to the burdens it would impose on businesses without sufficient evidence of any added value to consumer safety. it also bans ‘food imitating products’, creates excessive obligations on distributors and calls for an ‘eu safety testing’ marking due to the socialists’ aim of mandatory third-party product testing. for these reasons, i voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal to introduce a ‘made in’ label for consumer products sold in the single market. this measure is part of a set of proposals to strengthen the safety and monitoring of consumer goods in the eu, providing more transparency in the single market for eu citizens. as a result, eu citizens will feel safer and will be able to trust the products they purchase. this measure will also benefit eu citizens, since it will step up the production of higher-quality products in the eu; also, penalties against firms which sell dangerous goods will be issued.
in writing. - this report is linked to the report on consumer product safety. it applies to all products covered by eu harmonisation legislation covering the single market for goods, with the exception of food products. it is directed at member states and their market surveillance authorities and also manufacturers, distributors and importers and their obligations. while there are some positive proposals such as defining non-compliant products, developing risk assessment criteria and calling for enhanced cooperation between member states and the commission to ensure safety, there are also many problematic proposals. these included prescriptive harmonised eu penalties for infringements of the legislation, which i felt should be set by member states. there are also intrusive changes to the organisation of member states’ market surveillance authorities and testing processes and calls for the commission to evaluate mandatory third-party product testing and the creation of costly eu reference laboratories to test products. for these reasons, i abstained on the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the market surveillance of product report. this report proposes a set of market surveillance rules that strengthen consumer protection in the eu. one of the rules states that ‘made-in’ labelling should be made mandatory for non-food products sold on the single market. this will result in the improvement of the traceability of goods, which will also contribute to the strengthening of consumer protection. other rules include the provision that tougher penalties for firms selling non-compliant or potentially dangerous products will be issued and that the seriousness, duration and intentional or recurring character of the infringement as well as the size of the company will also be taken into account. this legislation is a major step towards a more powerful, coordinated and risk-based pan-european surveillance. better surveillance means safer products for european citizens.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. the regulation restricts freedom of contract, grants powers to esma (including the power to prohibit investment products) and empowers the commission to pass delegated acts and to adopt regulatory technical standards. transparency in otc dealings is all very well, but the volume of the information produced will be unmanageable within any reasonable time frame – rendering the process meaningless. emir regulates derivatives, central counterparties (ccps) and trade repositories in the european union. the proposal creates new requirements to mitigate the risks associated with the derivatives markets, following the lessons from the financial crisis. it introduces new requirements for transparency, as well as organisational requirements and prudential standards for both ccps and trade repositories.
in writing. - after four years of work reviewing the markets in financial instruments directive, i welcome the two pieces of legislation we are voting on today. mifid covers a multitude of topics including corporate governance, investor protection, high-frequency trading and transparency rules in all asset classes, as well as fulfilling our g20 obligations around the trading of derivative products. proportionate and balanced legislation which allows for fair and transparent financial markets will encourage investors and businesses to trust our capital markets, allowing them to fulfil their original purpose of fuelling growth in the economy. the first mifid is estimated to have increased eu gdp by 1[nbsp ]% because of the reduction in trading costs and the reduction in businesses cost of capital. i hope that mifid ii can be just as successful.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. this is a major piece of legislation, relating to financial services, and therefore has the potential to have a significant effect on the uk economy. the most fundamental change mifid creates is to introduce competition into the eu trading landscape by providing a passport for trading venues and investment firms on the basis of authorisation in their home member state. the dossier also introduces various investor protection measures. it includes giving yet more power to esma.
in writing. - after four years of work reviewing the markets in financial instruments directive, i welcome the two pieces of legislation we are voting on today. mifid covers a multitude of topics including corporate governance, investor protection, high-frequency trading and transparency rules in all asset classes, as well as fulfilling our g20 obligations concerning the trading of derivative products. proportionate and balanced legislation which allows for fair and transparent financial markets will encourage investors and businesses to trust our capital markets, allowing them to fulfil their original purpose of fuelling growth in the economy. the first mifid is estimated to have increased eu gdp by 1[nbsp ]% because of the reduction in trading costs and the reduction in businesses cost of capital. i hope that mifid ii can be just as successful.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against. extends the powers of the commission. has every appearance of a bland technical review aimed at improving existing flows of information. the committee’s amendments appear sensible in the circumstances (and include reducing cost and protecting confidential information). inevitably there will be some additional costs incurred by the exporting business, the question is whether the benefits, to the ecb for example, outweigh those costs. however, the regulation includes power for the commission to issue delegated acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the brief and technical proposal aligns the existing 2004 regulation on trade statistics to the lisbon treaty in respect of delegated acts. it was considered in the january plenary and has been agreed following a brief trialogue process. it satisfactorily takes into account the normal concerns about the burden of producing statistics and the independence and integrity of the production of statistics.
in writing. - i voted against this report which fails to achieve a very key objective: legal separation of the security settlement systems from potentially riskier banking activities. the economic crisis which was caused by banks has affected everyone in europe, not least my constituents in wales. banks need to take responsibility for their actions and it is no longer acceptable that the public pays for their mistakes.
in writing. - settlement is the last stage in the process of conducting a trade, and while less in the limelight that the actual business of trading on stock markets, it is no less vital to the functioning of our capital markets. i hope that the outcome of csdr will bring down the cost of settlement across the eu and make the whole system more efficient. in order to create a functioning single market in financial services across the eu, we need to ensure that those parts of the system that can be brought together in a mutually-beneficial way are brought together as quickly as possible. as rapporteur on the file i am confident that we have set in place the right framework for the european securities and market authority to fill in the final details, and i will be following their work closely in the coming months to ensure that the political agreement is fulfilled.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the safety regulation and approval standards for equipment carried on board ships, and is based on conventions adopted by the international maritime organization (imo). to provide a harmonised interpretation and implementation of the imo approval standards for marine equipment across member states and to ensure the free movement of equipment within the eu, a directive on marine equipment was introduced in 1996, and this recast deals with certain weaknesses in the area of implementation and enforcement of the current directive. any concerns related to the number of delegated acts have been satisfied in the final agreement, as the scope for the commission to act regarding technical specifications for marine equipment is now limited. sufficient safeguards are in place to ensure that member state experts are placed in the driving seat and that the commission may only adopt delegated acts in exceptional circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which covers the simplification of laws regarding pressure equipment. it was separated from the alignment package presented in november 2011 because it also contains an alignment with another regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. the main aim of the proposal is to reduce shortcomings in the existing legislation to complete the single market, generate competition and ensure safe products. there are enhanced consumer protection measures and labelling requirements, calls for action to be taken by member states against the improper use of ce marking, and provisions for a single point of contact where the manufacturer can be contacted.
in writing. - ukipʼs position is against. we voted against the creation of the patent court and it would be consistent therefore to vote against rules designed to make it work. this is a technical proposal which is required because of the creation of a unified patent court which in turn requires amendment of the rules pertaining to recognition and enforcement of judgments in patent cases.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and welcome the recent decision to allow scotlandʼs court of session to play a full role in the unified patent court.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as the conclusion of the agreement on the establishment of the unitary patent court (as part of the arrangements creating the new patent for europe) has necessitated an updating of the brussels i regulation. the brussels i regulation provides for the circulation and enforcement of judgments handed down in one member state throughout the union, on a number of civil law matters. in line with the aim of the brussels i regulation, the unitary patent court system will provide for effective cross-border treatment of disputes, and the choice of court rules which apply normally must be clarified in terms of their application to the common court established for the unitary patent, which will hear appeals.
in writing. - our position is against. the labour force survey (lfs) is the biggest household survey in europe. the results produced form the backbone of the statistical information system on labour markets in the eu. in particular, the lfs provides the indicators for three of the europe 2020 headline targets. 1. the regulation is being updated to change references from the old treaties to the new treaties. 2. a financial element is being added: ‘the total amount in commitment and payment appropriations (operational appropriations and human resources) is estimated at eur[nbsp ]15[nbsp ]890 million for the period 2014-2020’.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eu labour force survey is a household survey that provides indicators, including for three of the europe 2020 headline targets. the reports stresses the need to have comparable, reliable and objective statistics on the situation of employed persons, unemployed persons and persons outside the labour market, while respecting statistical confidentiality, privacy and protection of personal data. it is beneficial for my constituents in wales if these statistics are correct but also that their personal data is protected.
in writing. - i consider that this report has struck a correct balance in terms of eu institutional competence and accordingly voted in favour.
in writing. - the labour force survey regulation must be amended before june 2014 in order to replace all pre-lisbon treaty references to the delegation of powers to the commission with the new-post lisbon rules. it also includes a new provision to enable the commission to make a direct financial contribution to member states carrying out ‘ad hoc modules’ of the survey, and to enable that contribution to be made from a lump sum grant. the proposal amends existing legislation with no significant effect on the duties and obligations contained in the original instrument. the outgoing ‘regulatory procedure with scrutiny’ is replaced with the new powers of delegation found in ‘delegated acts’ and ‘implementing acts’. the new proposals for improving quality and efficiency in labour market statistics and investigations into new data collections and data sharing methods are positive, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which aims to respond effectively to pollution caused by ships and oil and gas installations. in wales we are very proud of our coastline and in order to protect it there must be proper mechanisms in place because we also have major energy installations.
in writing. - whilst i strongly believe that management of offshore oil and gas production must remain a national competence, i also consider that emsa has an important role to play in combatting the effects of oil spills. i could therefore support my colleague mr taylor's report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these proposals, which were for renewing the multi-annual funding for the european maritime safety agency. this agency is vital in coordinating pan-eu action in responding to maritime pollution, which can affect beaches and sea around scotland. in short, there will be no additional increase in the funds for the emsa just now, which i support.
in writing. - the proposed regulation lays down the detailed arrangements for the financial contribution of the union to the budget of emsa for the implementation of the new tasks assigned to it in the field of responding to pollution caused by ships and offshore oil and gas installations. the commission proposed the financial envelope for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020 of eur[nbsp ]160[nbsp ]500[nbsp ]000 in commitments be maintained but included a possible adjustment of the financial envelope of up to 8%. this can be considered following the commission’s mid-term evaluation. throughout the legislative process conservative colleagues have called for a 0% increase in emsa’s budget, believing that the budget for new tasks can be found from savings within the existing budget. i continue to endorse this position, and therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this agreement which ensures that the european maritime safety agency (emsa) has sufficient funding to carry out its new enlarged responsibilities, responding to marine pollution caused by oil and gas installations as well as vessels. this agreement will be of great help to those states affected by marine pollution as these can now request the assistance of emsa’s anti-pollution vessels to clean up their coastlines. emsa also has a satellite system for the monitoring and detection of oil spills (cleanseanet) which in return will reduce such natural disasters. third countries sharing a regional sea basin with the union are also included on the scope of the emsa action for marine pollution response, promoting a safer environment beyond the shores of eu countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the facts that businesses can only create jobs and recruit more people if the market allows for it, if they can rely on a qualified workforce, if labour markets are sufficiently flexible, if labour costs including wages are in line with productivity, if social protection systems make work attractive, and if regulation is proportionate and evidence-based. the report seeks to address a number of issues including how the eu and member states can improve access to finance, promote entrepreneurship and develop better regulation. central to this is the need to create the right regulatory environment, by removing unnecessary barriers which impose disproportionate costs on businesses and inhibit their ability to grow, create jobs and compete globally.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a hospitable environment for enterprises, businesses and start-ups to create jobs. the report aims to create the right environment for job creation, which will help to reach the eu2020 target of having 75[nbsp ]% of eu citizens in active employment by 2020. this report highlights a number of key points such as the concept that businesses – in particular smes and microenterprises – must be equipped with the knowledge and knowhow on how to access eu support through, for example, one-stop shops and web portals. moreover, this report also welcomes innovative initiatives that help entrepreneurs, including the create programme, erasmus for young entrepreneurs and the entrepreneurship strategy 2020. the measures in this report will also help businesses to grow, create jobs and compete globally by removing unnecessary barriers which impose disproportionate costs.
in writing. - ukip’s position is to vote against, as the report wants the commission to organise a european planning conference. it wants to use european structural and investment funds to improve ict infrastructure and for eu-wide surveys and the massive expansion of the erasmus programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which focuses on innovation in education and training institutions, use of open educational resources and availability of information and communication technology (ict) infrastructures and equipment. further, it proposes increasing recognition of skills acquired online and supporting teachers’ acquisition of digital competences, promoting open access to publicly-funded educational materials, and improving broadband connectivity and ict equipment in the classroom.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which comes in response to the commission communication on ‘opening up education: innovative teaching and learning for all through new technologies and open educational resourcesʼ. this report aims to improve the quality of european education by promoting innovation in schools and training institutions, increasing the availability of ict infrastructure and equipment, supporting the use of oer (open access to publicly-funded educational material) and exploiting the potential of moocs (massive open online courses). such measures will also be applied in primary and secondary education and will also be made available to disadvantaged groups, people currently not in education, employment or training and older generations. this will result in filling in the digital skills gap (90[nbsp ]% of jobs will require digital skills by 2020), as well as ict-related vacancies in the eu (up to 900[nbsp ]000 vacancies in the field are expected by 2015) in the near future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) aims to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. the current proposal revises the existing cites regulation. it is vital that we protect our biodiversity. it is estimated that the revenue lost through damage to local biodiversity and the resulting decrease in the production of foods and other natural materials costs wales about gbp[nbsp ]7[nbsp ]billion.
in writing. - the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites) enables the eu and its member states to work with 151 countries to protect endangered species of plants and animals by restricting and monitoring international trade in them to ensure that trade is carried out in a sustainable way. trade in endangered species is regulated by a system of permitting. cites is implemented in the eu by council regulation (ec) no[nbsp ]338/97. this regulation has been amended a number of times since adoption, through commission regulations. in april 2012 the commission initiated codification of the regulation, including allowing for further changes regarding delegated and implementing acts (following the adoption of the lisbon treaty). this has been satisfactorily transformed into a recast. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this proposal as it aims to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. this proposal also ensures that the council regulation (ec) no[nbsp ]338/97 deals with the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein. it lays down the provisions for import, export and re-export as well as internal eu trade in specimens of species listed in its four annexes.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against such fishing agreements.
in writing. - the eu-seychelles fisheries and partnership agreement (fpa) was signed on 5[nbsp ]october 2006. a new protocol to this fisheries agreement was initialled on 10[nbsp ]may 2013, covering a period of six years from its provisional application. given that the current protocol expired on 17[nbsp ]january 2014, the new protocol needs to be provisionally applied from 18[nbsp ]january 2014 in order to guarantee continuity for the eu fleetʼs activity in seychelles. the new protocol tallies with the objectives of the fpas, making it possible to maintain a european presence in distant-water fisheries and retain fishing opportunities in this part of the indian ocean, contributing to sustainable fishing and boosting cooperation between the eu and seychelles. for the reasons outlined above, i consider the new protocol to be balanced and favourable to both sides, and therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - ukip’s position is against such agreements – in this case with the comoros islands, which are in the indian ocean between africa and madagascar.
in writing. - this fisheries protocol between the european union and the union of comoros will benefit both parties and the fishermen in the area, in addition to creating jobs and generating wealth, therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this report on fishing opportunities and financial contribution. this report re-stresses the eu's obligation to take into account the objectives of development cooperation in the policies that it implements which are likely to affect developing countries. this report also recognizes the important role the eu could play in promoting sustainable fisheries management and good governance in third countries and calls on the eu to achieve a more concerted and coherent policy.
in writing. - the first fisheries agreement between the eu and madagascar dates back to 1986. this two-year agreement was signed in december 2012 and is due to expire at the end of this year. the uk has three vessels active under the existing protocol although spain and france are the main beneficiaries. italy and portugal also have a small interest. the uk is generally supportive of this proposal, particularly if measures requested by madagascar to minimise the level of sharks catches taken under the previous protocol are included. i endorse this position, and voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the republic of korea is one of the european unionʼs most important partners in asia. it is important that the eu has strong links with countries outside the eu in order to boost trade.
in writing. - this new framework agreement will help enhance cooperation in a wide range of areas of mutual interest such as trade, the environment, counter-terrorism, and organised crime between korea and the eu. this part of the framework agreement regards matters relating to readmission. readmission agreements set out clear obligations and procedures for the authorities of the non-eu country and of eu member states as to when and how to take back people who are irregularly residing in the eu. they are in principle technical instruments to improve cooperation between administrations and can only be used after a return decision has been made in accordance with certain procedural guarantees set by the return directive and the relevant eu asylum acquis. as the uk has not opted into this measure, i abstained on the report.
in writing. - our position is against. this report considers the eu-korea agreement. in particular, it complains about the fact that usually the council delays until most member states’ parliaments are on the verge of ratification and argues there is no legal basis in the treaties for doing so. the report calls on the eu to enter into the agreement so as to strengthen the eu’s influence in this sensitive part of the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the republic of korea is one of the european unionʼs the most important partners in asia. it is important that the eu has strong links with countries outside the eu in order to boost trade.
in writing. - as one of asia’s economic powerhouses, eu relations with the republic of korea have taken on increasing significance in recent years. since 2010, the eu and south korea have upgraded their relationship to a strategic partnership, ensuring a high level of commitment from both sides. the eu-south korean framework agreement (2010) addresses a wide range of international concerns, including non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and human rights, and is currently undergoing national ratification procedures in all eu member states. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report recommending that parliament consents to the conclusion of the protocol on relations with montenegro in the context of croatia joining the eu in july 2013. the aims of the association agreement are to support the balkan state in order to strengthen democracy and rule of law, to contribute to political, economic and institutional stability, and to support economic and international cooperation.
in writing. - ukipʼs position is against. this report calls for georgia to be allowed to participate in eu programmes. this is obviously being accelerated in light of the events in russia-ukraine. the ultimate goal of this is eu membership for georgia, something we do not want.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which will enable georgia to participate in certain union programmes. georgia has participated actively in the european neighbourhood policy since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since 2009. it is important that the eu creates strong links with its neighbouring countries; such agreements are beneficial for both the eu and the countries involved. a stronger eu is beneficial to wales.
in writing. - relations between the eu and georgia started in 1992, with the former soviet state playing an active role in the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership. a partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the eu and georgia came into force in 1999. a protocol to the pca was signed last december, laying down financial and technical rules to enable georgia to participate in certain union programmes. the eu and georgia completed the negotiation of an association agreement, including the deep and comprehensive free trade area element in july 2013 and initialled the agreement at the vilnius summit of november 2013. i look forward to both sides signing the final text in 2014, and therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - article 349 of the treaty authorises portugal to apply a reduced rate of excise duty in the outermost regions of madeira and azores on locally produced and consumed rum, liqueurs and eaux-de-vie. this derogation expires on 31 december 2013, and the proposal seeks to renew this authorisation until 31 december 2020. in line with my consistent position on such special article 349 fiscal measures, i opposed this report, on the basis that the treaty provision only applies to france, spain and portugal, even though all member states have their own peripheral regions and yet cannot benefit from such special fiscal exemptions and reductions.
in writing. - article 349 of the treaty authorises spain, up to 30 june 2014, to apply exemptions from or reductions in the ‘arbitrio sobre importaciones y entregas de mercancías en las islas canarias’ (aiem) to a number of products produced locally in the canary islands. on 4 march 2013, spain requested the commission to prepare a council decision authorising spain to apply exemptions from or reductions in the aiem to certain products produced locally in the canary islands for the period 2014-2020, modifying the list of products and the maximum rates applicable to some of them. in line with my consistent position on such special article 349 fiscal measures, i opposed this report, on the basis that the treaty provision only applies to france, spain and portugal, even though all member states have their own peripheral regions and yet cannot benefit from such special fiscal exemptions and reductions.
in writing. - article 349 of the treaty authorises france, until 1 july 2014, to apply exemptions or reductions to the ‘dock dues’ tax for a number of products produced in the french outermost regions. the commission has proposed that these fiscal exemptions and reductions should be extended for an additional period of six months in order to allow the commission more time to grant a longer-term programme of fiscal exemptions and reductions until 2020. in line with my consistent policy on such special article 349 fiscal measures, i opposed this report, on the basis that the treaty provision only applies to france, spain and portugal, even though all member states have their own peripheral regions and yet cannot benefit from such special fiscal exemptions and reductions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i hope that by reducing the number of questions tabled to five per mep per month, the content of written answers by the commission will be enhanced. i write to the commission on issues that are extremely important to my constituents and i hope that the answers i receive will be delivered quicker and will be more detailed thanks to this revision of the rules.
in writing. - parliamentary questions are an important way in which the european parliament can hold the commission to account and obtain clarification on certain issues. i voted in favour of this report, which limits the number of questions each mep can ask per month, because some meps were abusing the system and asking an unreasonable amount of questions. it takes a lot of resources and cost for the commission to answer each question. this is a show of how labour are helping to control cost in the eu institutions, but mainly transparency.
in writing. - this report concerns two distinct but linked points, firstly the procedure in plenary for question time, and secondly the rules covering the tabling of written questions to the commission. concerning the plenary question time, the provision rules in place currently are formalised, while a further innovation is proposed in the report: that rather than relying on ‘catch-the-eye’ speaking time will be allocated by ballot. regarding written questions, the rules will now limit electronic submission of questions to five per month.
in writing. - i was the rapporteur for this report and i voted in favour of it. it is important that the parliament’s rules of procedure are in line with the treaty of lisbon. this report concerns international agreements, which under lisbon, now require parliament’s consent. the timings of referral from council and parliament’s ability to request opinions from the ecj are important changes this report brings about.
in writing. - this report is the second report tackling the reform of the consent procedure. the first report dealt with the general procedure, while this follow-on report addresses specific changes necessary to rule 90 which covers international agreements. the changes to the rules clarify that the parliament may offer recommendations at any time in the process, including where an agreement has been concluded but not yet signed. furthermore, parliament’s rules are updated in 90(5), where previously it was suggested that the parliament must be consulted at a specific stage in the process. following receipt of legal advice, the report now clarifies that the council may ask consent at a time of its choosing, and parliament’s rules are updated to reflect this fact. i voted in favour of this report, as it is important to ensure the rules of procedure are kept up to date and are reflective of the legal position as it stands.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to extend the pilot project allowing for the digital signature of amendments at committee stage from five committees to all committees and to plenary documents. this will cut down on time and save money, which would be beneficial to my constituents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will allow meps to sign documents electronically in certain circumstances. this is an internal adjustment to the parliament’s rules and follows a trial period. it is important that parliament adjusts appropriately to changing technologies.
in writing. - this report introduces the necessary amendments to parliament’s rules of procedure to permit the electronic tabling of documents, in particular amendments, following the setting down of practical rules by the conference of presidents. i support this measure as a means to cut down on administrative costs, and therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - draft amending budget no. 1/2014 relates to a number of adjustments necessary for the implementation of budget 2014 in line with the adoption of the latest legislative acts and, in particular, adjustments needed to implement the proposed european investment fund (eif) increase, changes arising from the legal basis of horizon 2020 adopted after the formal adoption of budget 2014, and adjustments linked to the creation of the budget structure for the proposal of the shift2rail joint undertaking. i voted in favour of this technical adjustment to the 2014 budget.
mr president, as an mep representing london, this is a subject very dear to the hearts of millions of my constituents. london is home to the world’s busiest airport, heathrow. huge numbers of people live under its very active flight paths and are disrupted by noise on a daily basis. this report introduced operating restrictions in accordance with the icao balanced approach, to help limit the number of people affected by the harmful effects of aircraft noise. whilst i did have some concerns about the initial proposals, which would have had a negative impact on some of our regional airports and local businesses to the detriment of local employment, the report in its current form has come up with a balanced and suitable compromise. furthermore, the provision allowing for representatives of affected residents is a positive move in recognising their needs, as well as involving them in the process on a consultative basis. this aspect, i believe, has the potential to be used as a means of executing more constructive dialogue between airports and local residents, something which my london constituents will be very pleased about.
in writing. - i was not in favour of this report as the proposal as it stands will not improve the situation of residents living near airports. i still fear that night bans can be avoided by the commission in favour of the interests of the air industry. it is vital that a proper regulation is put into place to minimise noise disturbance from planes for all constituents, including in wales.
in writing. - it is the environmental noise directive that helps member states coordinate maximum noise levels for those living near airports. i voted in favour of these proposals, as they reiterate the need for regular noise assessments and reviews on how to implement noise reduction procedures. the eu listened to those living near airports and took many of their concerns into account and this resulted in the strong proposals today.
in writing. - this second-reading agreement lays down rules on the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions in a consistent manner, so as to help limit the number of people significantly affected by the harmful effects of aircraft noise, in accordance with the icao balanced approach. the proposed right for the commission to suspend decisions on operating restrictions at airports has been removed – the commission now only has the right to make non-binding recommendations to the local competent authorities, which can be discarded. secondly, i am satisfied that overly-subjective criteria on assessing the health impacts of exposure to aviation noise have been removed from the final agreement. finally, the agreed text ensures that concerned local residents should be represented by elected local representatives and reduces the possibility for pressure groups to exercise undue influence over the process. this final agreement satisfactorily addressed initial concerns of over-regulation on regional airports and local business, and therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i fully support this regulation concerning new rules for reducing noise at airports. the main aim of this regulation is to protect eu citizensʼ health. prolonged exposure to sounds above 85[nbsp ]db can cause hearing loss and sound pressure near airports often peaks at well over 100[nbsp ]db. noise reduction is already a priority for aircraft producers and therefore aircraft already in service are often retrofitted with noise reduction kits, so air travellers should not be hit with higher priced tickets. this regulation also preserves the right of local communities to have a say on noise restriction measures.
in writing. - i voted against the amendment to reject the text from the council. it is vital that the selection process for future capitals of culture gets underway as soon as possible. european capitals of culture is an excellent initiative and i hope to see a welsh city being given the honour very soon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the new proposal lists the order in which countries will be nominating cities for the title until 2033. in addition to two member states sharing the title each year, the proposal suggests that eu candidate or potential candidate countries can also nominate a european capital of culture every third year. importantly, the member state acts as host to the capital, not the council, and will designate a city based on the recommendations of the panel of experts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it relates to council regulations aimed at preventing or minimising accidental catches and the death of marine mammals such as whales, dolphins and porpoises in eu waters. the number of whales, dolphins and porpoises has decreased dramatically, with thousands dying every year, including via habitat degradation, collisions with vessels and underwater noise pollution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which supports equal opportunities in learning, most especially with equal access to ict and investment in education facilities. it also calls on member states to strengthen informal education on online safety. the welsh education system needs to be improved and one thing the welsh government could develop is education through ict.
in writing. - i voted for a number of the amendments to this agreement and am disappointed that they were not successful. i therefore consider the final report to be flawed. nevertheless, the changes to the current law will bring some benefit and i will campaign in the coming years for further improvements to be made.
in writing. - i voted against these proposals because, although i want stronger provisions at the eu level for posted workers, i felt that the enforcement directive has been rushed through and fails to solve the key problems with the directive; namely its inability to fully protect posted workers and prevent social dumping. labour are committed to this issue and will fight for better provisions in the next parliamentary mandate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft directive as it will improve the implementation and enforcement by member states of the 1996 directive in establishing a legal framework for businesses to send workers from their home country to another in order to provide a service on a temporary basis. any proposals seeking to shift the duty to enforce workers’ rights onto client companies would be onerous and run counter to the objective of facilitating service provision in the single market (joint and several liability (article[nbsp ]12)). the compromise text now provides that national governments will have an option to use other appropriate measures to fight abuse, respecting different control needs, and that member states can introduce national control measures provided they are proportional and justified.
in writing. - it is right that the eu takes measures to ensure each nation’s cultural heritage is protected and that national treasures are returned. a couple of decades ago the stone of destiny was returned to scotland after a near continuous absence of seven centuries. more importantly, in a few months the people of scotland will have the opportunity to return the substance of scottish nationhood.
in writing. - the proposal is to recast directive 93/7/eec on the return of cultural objects classified as ‘national treasures’ that were unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state after 1 january 1993. the purpose of the directive is to reconcile the free movement of goods within the eu internal market with the need for effective protection of member states’ cultural objects that are classified as national treasures. the report as amended does not support the principles of subsidiarity, and i therefore voted against the recast.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i am proud that in wales there are laws already in place that enforce carrier bag charges on all carrier bags and which have been successful in reducing plastic in landfill and raising money for local charities.
in writing. - i support action to cut down on plastic bag use and would have supported the original proposals brought forward by the commission. however, i have abstained on the report at this stage. forcing member states to use charges, rather than giving them the flexibility to choose the most appropriate policy for their territory, would be prescriptive, costly and disproportionate. i am not against a tax on plastic bags but taxation is not an eu competence. the parliament’s changes to the draft law would require small shops to produce reports on their use of plastic bags at a cost of gbp[nbsp ]20 million; includes unclear definitions which may inadvertently restrict certain types of ‘bags-for-life’ intended for multiple use; and force all european governments to adopt an 80% reduction target, which fails to take account of the different starting points of member states in terms of reduction measures as well as the need to consider subsidiarity and flexibility. we want proposals that actually reduce plastic bag use, allowing member states to pursue the measures they deem best, rather than having the minutiae decreed from brussels. i hope these issues will be resolved during upcoming negotiations with the european council.
in writing. - i welcomed the commission proposal which set out a variety of options for member states to pursue. however the text by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety included prescriptive and disproportionate requirements which i was unable to support. i opposed the 80[nbsp ]% reduction target demanded by the committee. this was rejected in the commissionʼs own impact assessment due to the need to account for the different starting points in member states, plus concerns over subsidiarity and flexibility. mandatory charging is being considered for introduction in england in 2015. however, i oppose its inclusion as an obligatory measure, as it is only one of many possible policy tools from which member states should have the flexibility to choose. i could not support the demand to force member states to replace plastic bags with biodegradable bags. biodegradable materials can be promoted, but a target for replacement goes too far – the right material needs to be used for the right job. to require a switch would also damage the economic viability of existing collection and recycling systems where plastic films are part of the mix. since these three provisions remained in the final text, i was unable to support the report and chose to abstain.
in writing. - the scottish government has already taken action to reduce the use of plastic bags. this is an issue which has wider impacts within the internal market, and i welcomed the opportunity to support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the auken report today. i am pleased that we have set a target to reduce consumption of lightweight plastic bags by 80[nbsp ]% in the next five years. with the environmental damage caused by plastic bags, for example to marine animals in the north sea, it is important that we have ambitious targets to tackle the problem. i am also glad that member states will have the flexibility to decide how to achieve this target.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these proposals because plastic bags are incredibly damaging to the environment and should be discouraged. it is also an eu-wide issue; because they take so long to decompose waste bags can cross borders and enter water systems. therefore to keep scottish beaches clean and marine animals safe, i welcome these proposals.
in writing. - labour meps today supported ambitious measures to crack down on plastic-bag waste across europe. single-use plastic bags are only used for a few seconds, yet it takes hundreds of years for them to degrade – and many end up floating in our oceans and seas, poisoning wildlife. we voted for binding targets to reduce the number of single-use plastic bags we use by 80[nbsp ]%. only binding targets will do the job – and so we are glad that amendments to water this down were not accepted. we also voted to bring in a charge for single-use plastic bags in supermarkets and other food shops. this will bring the rest of europe in line with what the uk has already legislated to do. wales sets a particularly good example – three years after bringing in a 5p charge for plastic bags at the check-out, the welsh use fewer plastic bags than most other countries, and they have already met the 80[nbsp ]% reduction target that we voted for today. labour meps did not support the amendment to exempt fast-food outlets from the charge, as this would be inconsistent with the laws being brought in throughout most of the uk.
in writing. - the proposal includes a series of controversial measures: it introduced an eu-wide reduction target of at least 80% to be achieved within two years; sets an eu price for carrier bags; and empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts to identify the criteria for resourcing bio-based materials in a sustainable manner; phased out oxo-biodegradable plastics from packaging materials; and proposed substituting hazardous substances for packaging as a whole. as a single market measure under the new approach framework, legislative harmonisation must be limited to the essential requirements needed to ensure the free movement of products throughout the eu. i am therefore not in favour of the eu defining limits or the types of packaging used for specific applications in member states. although i support measures to reduce the consumption of plastic carrier bags, i believe this is better off left to national and regional governments to implement.
in writing. - following the tragic loss of life in lampedusa and the mediterranean over the last few years, this proposal is intended to establish rules for the surveillance of sea borders by frontex and help rescue lives at sea. frontex will be involved in search and rescue, operational planning, detection of vessels, interception and rescue, and disembarkation. those measures will help prevent human trafficking and drug smuggling through the eu’s external sea borders. nevertheless, the uk does not participate in the aspect of the schengen acquis which this instrument is built upon, for this reason while i do welcome some measures of the proposal, i abstained on the report.
in writing. - our position is to abstain as we cannot approve this eu power, but we should not oppose agreements essential to international trade.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these proposals because it calls on the commission to ensure that the ‘right to regulateʼ is respected when negotiating investment agreements between the eu and third countries. labour meps are against the inclusion of investor-state dispute settlement (isds) in a free trade agreement with the united states as it is not necessary between two countries with developed legal systems, and it has a worrying precedent of challenging health legislation. todayʼs legislation does not introduce any isds measures but sets out a mechanism for dealing with it in the eu if it is introduced.
in writing. - with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the eu gained competence on foreign direct investment (fdi) and started to negotiate investment protection provisions, including isds, as part of its free trade agreements with third countries (singapore, canada/ceta, possibly us/ttip). these new circumstances brought about the need to clarify as part of a regulation who – the eu in its own legal personality or a member state – would be the respondent in international arbitrations where a third country investor (the claimant) would bring a case against a measure of a member state or the eu that would be allegedly hampering its investment in the eu. the underlying principle of the deal reached in trialogues is the “polluter pays principle’: if the measure that is being challenged in arbitration is a member state’s one, the member state shall be the respondent and in case it loses the arbitration, it shall bear all the costs. the same applies mutatis mutandis when eu-level measures are being challenged in arbitration. i agree with the proposed deal that it is an acceptable compromise, and consider that failure to adopt this regulation would put in danger the legal certainty investors need to engage in eu-inwards fdi. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - ukipʼs position is to abstain as we cannot approve this eu power but we should not oppose agreements which facilitate international trade.
in writing. - the eu trade defence instrument rules have remained largely unchanged for more than 15 years since the 1995 uruguay round of multilateral trade negotiations. an amendment was made to the system in 2004 to reflect changes to the decision-making process in the council (simple majority to reject a commission proposal instead of simple majority in favour). the parliament cast a partial vote on the amendments adopted in committee on 5 february 2014 which were all adopted, but no trialogue meeting took place as member states in council remain widely divided, especially on the removal of the lesser-duty rule. in light of the absence of consensus amongst member states, i voted against the report, and hope further legislative work on this file may be continued in the next parliament legislature.
in writing. - our position is against further regulation of european political parties. many of the changes are designed to help european political parties attack parties of which they do not approve and to enable them to cut off funding. also changes to the requirements are promulgated, i.e. a european political party must observe, in particular in its programme and in its activities, and through those of its members, the values on which the european union is founded, namely respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. ukip opposes the existence of these entities and the costs associated therewith. in addition this is a proposal for legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of these proposals because they will tighten and clarify the rules regarding european political parties, and will also give them a legal status for the first time. after long negotiations with the council, a procedure was agreed that will prevent fascist groups like the bnp from receiving eu funding, whilst keeping the system transparent and democratic. it has decreased european political partiesʼ reliance on eu funding and has strict rules over when they can use funds.
in writing. - this report concerns the reform of the legal structure and process for recognition for european political parties (eupps) and the funding regulations applicable to them. i do not support the central funding of european political parties, and therefore i voted against the report.
in writing. - ukipʼs position is against. we are opposed to the existence of and funding of european political parties.
in writing. - although i oppose the eu funding european political parties, in order to take account of the agreement reached by parliament and the council as regards the financing of european political parties, the committee on budgets must amend the financial regulation in order to ensure that all the rules agreed therein are properly transposed into law. this includes the ability of parties and foundations to carry over unused appropriations from one financial year to another, corresponding to up to 25[nbsp ]% of total income for that year provided that it is used before the end of the first quarter of that following year. although i am against the funding in principle, this report will prevent any build-up of appropriations in the budgets of the parties and foundations and will represent better financial management. for these technical reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - in the framework of the last negotiations on the financial regulation, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed to revise the financial regulation in order to take into account the outcome of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the years 2014-2020. accordingly, the commission presented a legislative proposal adjusting some provisions of the financial regulation following the political agreement on – and subsequent adoption of – the mff and cef regulations. this report constituted the mandate for parliament’s negotiators. coreper adopted its own negotiating mandate on 26[nbsp ]february. on 20 march, an agreement was reached in trialogue, with a compromise text agreed on both sides in relation to the cef carry-overs. coreper endorsed that agreement on 27th march. i broadly support the trilogue agreement, and therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. we need urgent action to decrease our co2 emissions from sectors in order to fight climate change. the one wales government set up a climate commision to ensure wales played its full part and set greenhouse gas reduction targets.
in writing. - i prefer to see the adoption of measures to address greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions from ships at a global level through the international maritime organization (imo), because international shipping is a global industry and the global application and implementation of imo standards promotes a level playing field, provides clarity of regulatory approach and removes regional obstacles to fair trade. the eu has encountered vigorous international opposition with the introduction of international aviation into the eu ets and in the face of strong global opposition from non-eu states, including our allies, the eu has been forced to retrace its steps. i am of the opinion that this must not be repeated in the case of international shipping. the development of a market-based measure can only be realistically achieved at a global level through the imo. in committee, we unsuccessfully opposed the extension of the scope of the measure to cover other gases besides co2, and the inclusion of ships below 5[nbsp ]000 gross tonnes (gt). as these proposals could not be defeated in committee, i cannot support the report as it stands and accordingly voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. dealing with invasive species, eradicating or trying to control them, costs the welsh economy about gbp[nbsp ]125[nbsp ]million per year. that is without the revenue lost through damage to local biodiversity and the resulting decrease in the production of foods and other natural materials. it is thought that these costs amount to about gbp[nbsp ]7[nbsp ]billion in wales. it is of utmost importance that there is an eu strategy. the other 27 member states of the eu are our closest neighbours so it makes sense that we work on an issue that affects us all. an eu invasive species strategy would be cheaper and more effective. there would also be more rapid detection of invasive species, as member states could contact a central point which would then alert all others of any new sightings or discoveries.
in writing. - i am pleased that parliament backed proposals to tackle the spread of non-native animals and plants throughout the eu. these proposals will see governments working together to detect invasive alien species and minimise the harm they cause. in scotland we have a particular issue with japanese knotweed, and i hope that these measures will help us tackle the problem. it is a step in the right direction, and we must wait and see how it works in practice.
in writing. - invasive alien species (ias) are transported by means of human action outside of their natural range and across ecological barriers, and then survive, reproduce and spread, with serious ecological, economic and social consequences. ias are cited as a major cause of biodiversity loss and species extinction and can cause health problems, damage infrastructure, undermine forestry and cause agricultural losses; indeed ias are estimated to cost the union at least eur[nbsp ]12 billion per year. the commission proposal establishes a framework for action to address ias within the eu. the rapporteur’s draft report contained, as its central feature, the same approach to the selection and constitution of the union list than that proposed by our shadow rapporteur: an inclusive list with opt-outs. it also proposed that actions be undertaken within timeframes related to when the list of species is adopted rather than when the regulation is adopted. importantly, the draft report also recognised that member states should be free to implement stricter national measures. therefore, despite reservations on some of the detail, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which provides the basis for adopting the technical rules needed to ensure the implementation of the kyoto protocol in the eu. it is vital that we correctly implement the kyoto protocol to ensure the fight against climate change is effective in wales and globally.
in writing. - the unfccc climate change conference in doha, qatar, in december 2012 adopted an amendment to the kyoto protocol establishing a second commitment period running from 1[nbsp ]january 2013 to 31 december 2020. ratification of this second commitment period by the eu and its member states is necessary well in advance of the unfccc conference in paris in 2015 if the new global agreement expected to be finalised there is to be successful. the agreement voted on amends the monitoring mechanism regulation (mmr) to resolve technical issues associated with the process of ratifying the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. i am satisfied that the trilogue compromise agreed on 17 march adequately defines in the mmr amendment itself the powers delegated to the commission, such that it does not allow the commission discretion to deal with those elements that member states consider to be ‘essential’. the agreement also limits the duration of the delegation of powers so that they will only allow the measures to be used for the purpose of the technical matters needed to implement the second commitment period. i was able to support the report
in writing. - as an mep for northern ireland, a region of the uk blighted by organised crime led by republican terrorists on the border with the republic of ireland, i welcome this focus on tackling fraud across europe. however, it is completely unacceptable that this, or any other, institution of the eu should pursue a fascination with harmonising criminal law. member states should retain complete sovereignty and flexibility over powers of criminal investigation and the type of punishments handed out to those convicted of fraud and other forms of organised crime. it should be for national courts to decide these penalties and our judges should not be constrained by the ill-thought minimum provisions set out by eurocrats here in strasbourg. i am glad that this report included an amendment accepting so. ultimately, while cooperation is important, it should be national agencies such as the national crime agency in the uk – and support for those investigative bodies – that should take forward the aim of combating organised crime.
in writing. - the focus of this proposal for a directive is on how fraud and related illegal activity within eu institutions affects the financial interests of the eu and, in turn, the taxpayer. this legislative proposal introduces criminal law measures in order to counteract such fraud and other illegal activities deemed detrimental to the eu’s budget. as the uk does not participate in these measures, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. - the report focuses on three main issues: innovation in education and training institutions; use of open educational resources (oer); and availability of information and communication technology (ict) infrastructures and equipment. referring to the commission communication, ‘opening up education: innovative teaching and learning for all through new technologies and open educational resources’, the report proposes to increase recognition of skills acquired online and supporting teachers’ acquisition of digital competences, to promote open access to publicly-funded educational materials and to improve broadband connectivity and ict equipment at the classroom level. as these are voluntary programmes, i was able to support the report.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i thought it was remarkable that 28 individual member states should all be able to agree an mff for the next seven years in the way that they did. what is more, in my opinion, the fact that most of the revenue should be set at 1% gni properly reflects the disciplines which were being applied in the member state economies. i think the system is fair, particularly with regard to corrections, and i think it has the added advantage that it places least burden on individual taxpayers. but as we move forward our priorities ought to be to ensure that the budget delivers value for money, to ensure the budget is accountable, and to ensure the budget properly addresses the main challenges of the day. to that end, i welcome opportunities in the next parliament to review. those will be good opportunities to look critically at the current spend and revenue systems, but it should not be another opportunity for a bigger european union budget. to deliver best added value, we need to be working closely alongside member state governments. that means, in my opinion, that the budgetary process ought to be more engaged with the member states and that there should be more democratic control of the budgetary process from the member states. so on the whole question of own resources i do think it is important we approach it with an open mind. in principle, however, i am not convinced by the case for further tax-raising powers at eu level as currently proposed. current proposals for taxation based on vat and ftt were, in my view, overly complex and potentially damaging to the competitiveness of some sectors of the european economy. secondly, i am not convinced that further budgetary independence would mean greater efficiency, and lastly, i see the risk that greater budgetary independence would take the eu institutions further away from the member states, further away from the european public, rather than closer.
mr president, i was speaking today primarily not as a ukip mep but as a fellow of the institute of chartered accountants of england and wales. one fact is beyond dispute: the court of auditors has not passed the accounts of the european union for the last 19 years. this is even though the court has only to sign off a declaration of assurance, which is probably a lessor standard than the true and fair view of the anglo-american world. this, then, is the context: the context of 19 years of unsigned accounts, in which this parliament is now discussing own resources – and the conclusion is clear. the institutions of the european union are unreformable, otherwise they would have been reformed back in 1994 – the first time that the accountants did not pass the test of the auditors. this is a disgrace, and i hope that the next parliament will do something about it because for sure this parliament will not.
mr president, ‘own resources’ is a rather misleading euphemism. the eu has only the resources of its member states, so their populations pay taxes perhaps more directly to the eu instead of through the treasuries of member states. one of the purposes might be to disguise which countries are net contributors and which are net recipients, thus obviating the necessity for rebates and correction mechanisms and replacing them by a series of lump-sum payments over the next six years. you also remove from potentially rebellious member states the power to threaten to withhold contributions from the eu. there is also a symbolic – or perhaps a psychological – significance of people paying taxes directly to the eu. it sends a subliminal message to taxpayers that the eu has the status of a state. how will own resources be enforced? by using officials and judges employed by member states? or perhaps new eu tax officials and courts will emerge, as though from nowhere.
blue-card question. – you mentioned in your remarks that we should look at the impact of climate change on flooding. have you ever considered the impact and consequent causes of eu directives on flooding?
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, my constituents in the area known as the somerset levels have suffered badly from flooding. this flooding is in large part the direct consequence of eu directives, especially the eu directive on wildlife. money has gone on wildlife habitats, and routine maintenance and dredging – which is highly necessary – has been barred. people in the somerset levels are prime candidates to benefit from eu solidarity funding. they should get back some of the disproportionate amount that we in the uk are paying to the eu. however, the uk’s coalition government has not even applied. this is an appalling decision, and i therefore ask two questions. first, what use is the coalition government? – and second, what is the purpose of britain remaining in the eu?
madam president, we are still facing difficult times in the european union, but the poorest should not carry the burden. the shortage of payments affects humanitarian aid and other external financing instruments such as the european instrument for democracy and human rights. the situation is such that, should a crisis arise tomorrow, we would not be able to intervene and provide assistance. how can we be serious about our funding values if the first cuts we make are towards those who need it the most? what kind of message are we, as an eu of 28 member states, sending to the rest of the world? not only do we close our borders in the face of the syrian crisis, but we fail to meet our commitments to those countries who welcome syrian refugees: over nine million of them. the european instrument for democracy and human rights has proved indispensable in protecting the rights of vulnerable people, minorities and women, promoting the work of human rights defenders. now is not the time to pull away that instrument. now is the time to support it. after 15 years in this house this is my last speech. i say to those citizens who put me here: thank you for the privilege of being able to give a voice to the voiceless, to stand up for those whose rights would be ignored and taken away from them. this europe is a europe that must be defended, because at its roots are the principles of equality, fairness, human rights and justice. (applause)
in writing. - our position is against. whilst there may be occasions when a parliament might properly instigate and inquire into some matter, this parliament is unlikely to do that effectively. there have hitherto been only two or three inquiries (one, which was somewhat unsatisfactory, on the equitable life business). this is also a proposal for a regulation and as such ukip opposes legislation unless there is a very clear case for not so doing. (vote)
in writing. - i am rapporteur for this report and i voted in favour of it as some gains were made in negotiations this mandate, and we should keep the file open so negotiations can continue in the next parliamentary mandate.
in writing. - this report concerns parliament’s right of inquiry, which following the introduction of the lisbon treaty is subject to detailed rules set down on the initiative of parliament, with only the power of consent reserved for the council and commission. the report seeks to strengthen many aspects of the existing rules governing the right of inquiry, including introducing the power to summon member state officials to give explanations on, for example, implementation of a directive. it also includes a right to carry out ‘on-the-spot’ investigations and to impose sanctions should parliament’s rights not be respected in this area. conservatives did not endorse this report when it was presented in order to receive a mandate for negotiations. however, discussions with the council have been entirely fruitless, and in view of the lack of substantive progress, i voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which calls for obligatory testing of marine equipment if evidence is presented that a risk to maritime safety, environment or health exists. in wales we are very proud of our coastline and in order to protect it there must be proper legislation in place. we must also protect the health and wellbeing of our fishermen and women.
in writing. - relations between this house and the national parliaments are vital if the eu is to maintain true democratic legitimacy. unfortunately at the moment my own country's parliament does not have full and proper relations with this house and my government does not have full access to the council. scotland however will have the opportunity to change that relationship in september's independence referendum.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is important that parliament takes stock of all the developments in the last mandate and especially since the implementation of the lisbon treaty. labour supports a strong role for national parliaments in the european union and there should be some reform in this field. this report will help in this process.
in writing. - this report is the last in the series of introspective reports coming from the committee on constitutional affairs ahead of the end of the parliamentary term. the report purports to examine the way in which national parliaments can contribute to the european decision-making process, but much of the focus is instead placed on interparliamentary dialogue and the role of the conference of community and european affairs. conservatives tabled a series of amendments that would have addressed how to improve the functioning of the subsidiarity check. in addition, conservative colleagues advocated several steps to strengthen this role, in particular by introducing an informal extension of the deadline when three reasoned opinions are issued. regrettably, the amendments were not adopted, and for this reason i voted against the report.
in writing. - this is a new innovation provided for in article 311 tfeu, and is given legal character by article 9 of the ord. parliament is required to give its consent, and in addition the rapporteurs have drawn up a non-legislative resolution to accompany the consent. this deals mainly with the administrative and procedural aspects of the ord, with provisions relating to administrative cooperation, accounts, reporting, adjustments, timing and management of cash resources.
in writing. - this establishes the categories of own resources, their calculation method, the own resources ceilings and correction mechanisms (including a couple of articles specifically on the uk rebate). the draft report of the parliament recommends some amendments to the recitals concerning the prevailing view on the own resources system – namely that it is illegal, non-transparent, unfair and not subject to parliamentary control, highly complex and incomprehensible to eu citizens. while i do not support some of the amendments voted in the committee on budgetary affairs, the legislative resolution itself is acceptable as it implements the deal reached in february 2013 by the heads of state and government on the mff – namely, no new own resources and the maintenance of correction mechanisms. therefore, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - this covers more the relations between the member states and the commission on the methods and procedure for making available the own resources to meet the cash requirements of the commission. as this is a recast and a council decision it is unproblematic and the parliament is recommending in its consultation that it has no problems with the council position. for this reason, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - this legislative proposal establishes an eu wide voluntary network of public employment services (pes) with the aim of expanding, reinforcing and consolidating on-going initiatives to modernise those services and to improve the operation of european labour markets. the proposal enhances cooperation between pes, whilst still protecting member state competence and not compromising subsidiarity.
in writing. - ukip's position is against. while member states remain responsible for organising, staffing and running their pes, this legislative proposal establishes a european network of public employment services, providing a platform for comparing their performance at european level, identifying good practices and fostering mutual learning in order to strengthen service capacity and efficiency. budget eur[nbsp ]4[nbsp ]million.
in writing. - this legislative proposal establishes an eu-wide voluntary network of public employment services (pes) with the aim of expanding, reinforcing and consolidating on-going initiatives to modernise those services and to improve the operation of european labour markets. the proposal enhances cooperation between pes, whilst still protecting member state competence and not compromising subsidiarity. the uk benefitted through the ability to use this collaboration as a platform to promote uk policy, and it has been successful in a number of areas including member states acceptance of the use of private partners in delivering employment programmes, such as the uk’s work programme. participation remains voluntary, therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal as it seeks to stregthen cooperation between the public employment services of the member states by establishing a formal network. one of the objectives is to help implement and deliver on the europe 2020 employment rate targets, including the reduction of unemployment for all age groups and for vulnerable groups. the network is also expected to contribute to cutting the duration of unemployment inactivity, to improve the functioning and integration of labour markets as well as the filling of vacancies, including though voluntary geographical and occupational mobility, and to help combat social exclusion. i also voted in favour of this proposal since the close cooperation of public employment services is an important contribution in order to combat unemployment and achieve higher employment rates in europe. it must be ensured that all member states participate in the exercise.
in writing. - this first-reading agreement revises the eu solidarity fund (eusf) which was created in 2002 with the aim of enabling the eu to respond to major disasters inside the eu and in candidate countries. the purpose is to grant affected countries financial aid, where necessary, to help them bear the financial burden inflicted on them by natural disasters, provided certain criteria are met. given the damage caused by recent climatic events to welsh coastal areas, i am supportive of this revised fund. experiences in wales have highlighted the need for such an instrument provided it is run in an equitable and efficient manner. the revised regulation should making the instrument quicker to respond to disasters and simpler to use, with clearer provisions in place.
in writing. - i supported this report on the reform of the eu solidarity fund. i firmly believe that this fund can be used effectively to provide much needed financial assistance to areas of the eu in the aftermath of natural disasters such as floods, forest fires, earthquakes, storms and drought. the new rules will introduce a quicker response to disasters, which will be vital to many areas. the reform also encourages member states to develop risk management and disaster prevention strategies. i saw for myself the destruction caused in the floods in my constituency of wales a few months ago and i very much hope that by introducing these new reforms, with clearer rules on eligibility and more coherent guidance provided by the commission, this fund will be used to its full potential.
in writing. - point 26 of the conclusions of the european council 19/20 december 2013 called on the commission and the eib further to enhance the capacity of the eif through an increase in its capital, setting a deadline of reaching a final agreement by may 2014. it is proposed to use part of the appropriations available for cosme and horizon 2020 for a proposed eif capital increase. the eu subscription to the new shares in the eif would be made over a four year period starting in 2014 and would cost approximately €170m (dividends being used to cover part of the cost of the new shares). the necessary adjustment to the 2014 budget has been proposed separately in draft amending budget no.1 to the eu budget 2014. it is budgetary-neutral and its final outcome contains a change as to the treatment of revenue from dividends in the period 2014 -2017. in trilogue it was decided not to treat dividends as assigned revenue at this stage but the parliament and the council will address the issue in the framework of the next revision of the financial regulation or, at the latest, in the context of the interim report due by the end of 2016. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - eu pharmacovigilance legislation for medicinal products for human use was revised in 2010, in order to strengthen and rationalise the system for safety monitoring of medicines. it entered into force in july 2012 with additional amendments to pharmacovigilance legislation subsequently introduced following the 'mediator' case (a drug developed by french drug company servier for treating overweight diabetics that is estimated to have killed between 500-2,000 people before finally being banned in europe). these recent changes have led to a widened remit for the european medicines agency (ema), which has acquired pharmacovigilance competences also for nationally authorised medicines, in addition to reinforced competences for centrally authorised medicines. the report is proportionate an was endorsed by conservative colleagues in committee, i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - ukipʼs position is to vote against providing eur[nbsp ]300 million in loans to tunisia.
in writing. - european union aid forms part of a package of international aid approved for tunisia, which also includes an agreement the tunisian authorities reached in mid-april 2013 with the international monetary fund (imf) staff on a 24-month stand-by arrangement (sba) in the amount of $1.75 billion (400% of quota), which was approved by the imf board in june 2013. i welcome this financial assistance, and voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on macro-financial assistance to the republic of tunisia. the aim is to support tunisia’s economic stabilisation and continuing reforms. it will also follow key principles and objectives for economic reforms set out in the eu-tunisia association agreement and the eu-tunisia action plan for 2013-2017.
in writing. - the uk has no fishing interest in the bluefin tuna fisheries sector, but has taken a keen interest in ensuring appropriate management measures are agreed. this report provides a useful framework on changing aspects of the bluefin recovery plan relating to fishing seasons, therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean. this proposal aims to modify provisions on fishing seasons in order to ensure effective conservation of bluefin tuna stocks. it also provides a modification of the fishing seasons, defining fishing seasons as open seasons, as opposed to close seasons indicated in the previous iccat recommendations. this report also establishes actual dates when fishing is permitted by purse seiners, bait boats and trolling boats and explicitly allows all other gears the possibility of fishing all year round to avoid any uncertainty for those gears which are not subject to any specific rules on fishing seasons.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive seeks to protect the euro currency against counterfeiting. the directive covers the production, distribution and using of counterfeit euro notes and coins. references in the commission proposal obliging member states to introduce minimum criminal sanctions for the offences covered by the directive were successfully removed; thereby maintaining flexibility for member states. i therefore was able to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - today labour meps abstained in the final vote on honey. this is a complex issue, balancing consumer rights and practical issues for bee keepers. we have consistently supported amendments which sought to give consumers the right to know whether the honey they buy is made from bees feeding on gm crops – and we are disappointed that the final agreement made with national ministers does not provide for meaningful labelling. as a result, consumers will not know whether they are eating gm honey and we could not vote in favour. however, we also did not want to vote against and support the ecj judgment, which will be difficult to implement, especially for countries such as the uk where we have trial gm sites. british beekeepers are concerned that they may have to test their honey to prove that it does not contain gm pollen. where buffer zones exist between gm crops and hives, as they do voluntarily in the uk, labour meps think there is no need to carry out any additional tests on the honey or change labels in any way. however, as this guarantee was not written into the law, we could not give our support to either option.
in writing. - the report restores legal certainty to a sector that has been suffering from uncertainty and trade restrictions since the ecj ruling of 2011. the key issue is the definition of pollen, and i absolutely stand by the position that pollen is a natural constituent of honey and not an ingredient. pollen enters honey as a result of bees' activity and is not deliberately added by the beekeeper. this is consistent with international trade standards set for honey, which define honey as non-compound product with no ingredients. eu law should not be based on a false premise, and should not unilaterally punish beekeepers by undermining the reputation of their product. the adoption of this report by my conservative colleague julie girling, will restore legal certainty to the honey sector so that beekeepers and honey producers can return to their usual business as it was before the court ruling. for these reasons, i voted in favour and was pleased to be able to support welsh and european beekeepers.
in writing. - this forms the third pillar of reforms to the common fisheries policy and is intended to be more efficient and simpler to access for potential beneficiaries such as fishermen and coastal communities. it aims to promote more sustainable fishing, support coastal communities in economic diversification, finance projects in coastal communities, and make it easier to access financing. each country is allocated a share of the €6bn+ fund which can be used to co-finance projects alongside money from member states. the individual share of the fund is dependent on the size of the fishing industry in each member state. conservatives fought hard to ensure the fund is used fairly, achieves greater sustainability, and is not used to help large fishing nations subsidise their fleets and build bigger boats. this was reflected in the report, and therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new initiative that concerns the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). this initiative provides aid to help fishermen comply with new common fisheries policy (cfp) requirements. the emff aid will help make eu fisheries more sustainable and also boost the fishing sector as it will help fishermen to observe the discard ban, e.g. by buying more selective fishing gear, but will also be used to improve safety and working conditions, data collection and port infrastructure. moreover, a total of eur 520 million of the emff budget – a considerable increase over the original commission proposal – will be earmarked for data collection. this initiative also supports young fishermen, as fishermen under 40 years old are to be granted up to eur 75[nbsp ]000 euros in individual start-up support if they buy a small-scale and coastal fishing vessel between 5 and 30 years old and have five years’ professional experience in the sector. the emff also provides support for withdrawing, replacing or modernising engines for vessels up to 24m long, including a requirement for those of 12-24m in length that the new engine’s power output be less than that of the engine it replaces.
in writing. - the european police college (cepol) is currently located in bramshill in london. this site costs the taxpayer over £5m per year to run, and is not economically viable. the home secretary therefore, announced in december 2012 that the site would be sold by march 2014. the member states agreed that cepol should move to budapest in hungary. however, the commission and the european parliament demanded that there would need to be a formal decision and agreement between all institutions regarding its relocation. after a fast trilogue process and significant political division, it was finally decided that hungary would be the new location as originally agreed by council. as conservatives colleagues managed to negotiate that the uk would not be responsible for all the costs incurred during the move, i could support the proposal and voted in favour of the report.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the data retention directive was adopted at a very difficult time, as we have heard, and my group welcomes this very far-reaching and deep judgment. of course, it was adopted at the time of terrorist outrages and so on, but that is not the only reason that this judgment is important. many of those issues existed at that time and have now been corrected. we must acknowledge that, and my group does acknowledge that. the ecj judgment confirms that the current rules on data retention fail to strike the right balance between, on the one hand, security measures allowing police services to do the vital job of protecting citizens from serious crime and, on the other, protecting fundamental rights to privacy and data protection in today’s digital age by making sure data retention remains at all times proportional to risk. this judgment says that data retention can still happen, that we can address the security and terrorist risks, but we cannot collect bulk data as we did in the pre-snowden era. this is extremely important. the data retention rules fail the fundamental rights test and this judgment is a testimony to the high standards of data protection and privacy that exist in our european legal framework, and that is why this judgment is so important. in the post-snowden era this judgment prohibits mass surveillance, which is now unequivocally held as an infringement of the eu charter of fundamental rights to privacy and to data protection. any such infringement of these fundamental rights must have clear justification and stringent safeguards in place, including a definition of serious crime, the purpose of access to data and, importantly, a system in place to control the access to data which should include judicial authorisation. following the judgment, questions now focus on what happens next. for us here in the european parliament this is an opportunity to stress to the council the importance of finding agreement on the text of the data protection package, especially the directive on law enforcement. we must now underline that in light of this judgment. parliament has already put forward its position and the next step in this debate is the completion of this legislation. we have said this following the snowden revelations and following the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs inquiry and the resolution on mass surveillance. yet again, we stand here in parliament calling on the council to recognise the importance of this legislative package and to quickly move forward with these negotiations to do justice to this seminal ecj ruling.
mr president, the court judgment is a landmark one for data protection and privacy law in the eu and, undoubtedly, beyond. it sets limits on what is acceptable in the restrictions on liberty in the pursuit of security. we have been debating this for the entire time – the 15 years – that i have been in parliament, and it has got more complex in an era of online data and communication. as a liberal democrat and member of the alde group, i strongly opposed the proposed directive in 2005, in line with the recommendations of my alde colleague and the rapporteur, alex alvaro. it was – as my colleague sophia[nbsp ]in ʼt veld has said – a classic example of policy-laundering, not least by the then president of the council. the uk was in the presidency, and the person who pushed this through was the then uk home secretary from the labour party, charles clarke. they had been unable to get through a mandatory data retention scheme in the westminster parliament, so there was no british law to this effect. so what happens? it gets pushed through the brussels system with the connivance of the socialist and ppe groups. it was an appalling example of policy-laundering. the ruling by the eu’s highest court – that bulk storage of metadata on every single person’s communications is an unjustified and disproportionate invasion of privacy and a breach of human rights – is a vindication of the stance that we took in 2005. member states must indeed urgently review national implementing legislation to ensure full compliance with the ruling. if they do not, i am sure that national courts will do so. governments certainly need to be able to protect their citizens from serious crime and terrorism, but the knee-jerk resort to mass data collection – with no basis in suspicion – is utterly disproportionate. this is the significance of what the court has said. the gross encroachment of our rights through the mass collection of data and snooping on our citizens, coupled with unaccountable surveillance with insufficient oversight, cannot simply be justified in the name of the fight against serious crime and terrorism. you cannot just invoke ‘we’re fighting criminals and terrorists’ to justify disproportionate restrictions on freedoms. i note that the court specifically criticised the lack of a requirement for a court order before the retained data could be accessed. so the court has unequivocally upheld fundamental rights to data protection and privacy as a shield against indiscriminate blanket retention of data. it throws a real spanner in the works of increased data collection and, hopefully, marks the end of a decade and a half where surveillance overkill has been the name of the game. i am looking forward to seeing what the implications for the pnr and the swift agreements are. i believe we can be proud of the work that parliament has done in this area, leading to the questioning and investigating of mass surveillance practices – not least by mr moraes, who has redeemed himself for his vote in 2005. we are demanding answers to difficult questions and ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, it is apt as this five-year session of the european parliament nears its close that we devote ourselves to a debate on reconciling proper respect for cultural diversity without compromising steadfast compliance with fundamental rights. this remains a challenge in europe as across the world. i hope some of the past left-right differences in this house will be overcome in the vote and i welcome a text which calls for respect for all religions and beliefs in paragraph[nbsp ]16. i recall the european conservatives voting against this parliament’s annual human rights report on the basis that they put equal emphasis on economic, social and cultural rights as on civil and political rights. i hope tomorrow’s vote will demonstrate otherwise. it is not long since the leaders of both germany and the united kingdom criticised the concept of multiculturalism – a concept which europe needs to cherish, not undermine. i am also very concerned that once again the ecr group, led by the british conservatives, has called for a separate vote on paragraph[nbsp ]7 on the death penalty, where their failure to support brings deep shame to the worldwide campaign for its abolition – and, i have to say, to the reputation of my own country. i am pleased to see paragraph[nbsp ]30 contains an unswerving commitment to the inclusion of human rights clauses in the eu trade agreements. but i know that this is challenged from some quarters in this parliament and that invoking these clauses in the vast majority of cases where human rights concerns arise has proven to be almost impossible. and europeʼs ability to combat religious persecution abroad must be strengthened if we honestly confront religious discrimination here in our own countries. i add my thanks to the many others who have congratulated meps who are making their final speeches before retiring from this parliament, including ms giannakou. i hope to return, but place on record the pride i feel having served as human rights spokesperson for my group for the past five years, and my thanks to the human rights organisations and defenders with whom it is a privilege to work. the late robin cook, a former foreign secretary for my party in britain, famously introduced what he called an ethical foreign policy and was widely criticised for choosing this aim. for me, in seeking to work for a better world, morality is something which guides me. not a morality based on one religion or ideology but a recognition that human rights involve a very clear distinction between what is right and what is wrong.
author. - mr president, i rise on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism to present this oral question. regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 establishing common rules concerning the conditions to be complied with to pursue the occupation of a road transport operator was adopted in 2009 as part of the roads package. amongst other things, the regulation is meant to ensure that undertakings have an effective and stable establishment, as part of a set of conditions, and have the status of good repute and the necessary community licence to operate within the internal market. the regulation came into force in december 2011, making so-called letterbox companies illegal. however, there is evidence that letterbox companies not only continue to exist, but are expanding. they are the main channel for organised, systematic social dumping in the road transport sector. letterbox companies are used in order to recruit professional drivers from member states with lower pay and working conditions, with a view to making them work within countries with much higher standards. it is the classic social dumping model. this way road transport operators can save 90% on labour costs and social contributions. in search of a better future for themselves and their families, drivers get caught in the system. they depend on their jobs and accept working on the fringes of the law. due to their complex and untransparent construction, letterbox companies make it difficult – if not impossible – for the driver to claim rights or access benefits to which they are entitled, and it is difficult to get unpaid leave, unpaid wages, health care, medical insurance, unemployment and pensions. it is also difficult to track down and challenge the part of the business which is legally responsible for the prejudices brought against drivers. thus they create a double advantage for the employer – they circumvent the law while ensuring protection and flexibility to those companies practising this system. two years into the full application of this regulation, evidence shows that letterbox companies continue to exist and to proliferate. neither the eu member states nor the commission have made any sustained effort to enforce and run controls in line with this regulation. however, despite the calls, there is no data about the extent of the phenomenon that could prove that certain member states fail to meet their obligations on this regulation. there is no information on measures taken by the commission to develop the necessary level of cross-border enforcement needed in order to fulfil the aims and objectives of this regulation. indeed, some member states hosting letterbox companies show a deliberate lack of interest in cooperating in cross-border investigations, control and sanctions, even on specific request from other member states. in europe, where policymakers declare their full commitment to promoting jobs and addressing the shortages of drivers, more and more professional drivers work away from home for uninterrupted periods of up to three months. they are subject to dubious employment schemes that block their access to social and labour rights, they spend their nights and weekends in their lorries or in substandard accommodation such as improvised barracks, feed on canned food, have no access to basic facilities such as toilets and showers, and drive around europe on low wages – the clear victims of social dumping. this is unacceptable and must end. the committee on transport and tourism and parliament therefore ask the commission three distinct questions. how many letterbox companies have been closed down in the last two years per member state, and what information can the commission provide regarding national control and enforcement measures, or what we believe to be a lack of them? what measures has the commission undertaken in order to develop effective cross-border enforcement and controls? what measures has the commission taken against those member states who have so far failed to adequately implement this regulation and, indeed, in some cases are actively encouraging going against it? we have in the eu in 2014 a sector in which slave labour is on the rise. that sector is road haulage. frankly, it needs sorting out and the law not only needs to be upheld but enforced vigorously.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, thank you for your valuable comments. of course, when we talk about transport, we talk about a major, important and complex economic activity, one it is not easy to monitor, but as many of you have underlined we have to do it better. i have taken note of your comments and will make sure that they are taken into account by the commission in its future work. just to quickly address two issues: one mentioned was about the lack of statistical evidence. it is of course, by definition, difficult to provide statistical information on unlawful practices. in addition, reporting obligations under the current regulation – conditions to be fulfilled by road transport operators – do not cover this point. member states are not required to provide specific information on the enforcement of the stable and effective establishment letterbox criterion. the commission is therefore considering revising the reporting obligations as well as the provisions relating to checks on this criterion. subject to the new commission, proposals could be adopted in late 2014 to make enforcement of the regulation simpler and more effective. the commission is also considering clarifying definitions and strengthening the obligations for adminstrative cooperation between the member states. i sincerely hope that the commission will be able to count on the next european parliament’s support should it, of course, adopt those kinds of proposals. of course we are not inactive at this stage and we are proactively dealing with infringement procedures concerning the member states. whenever there is enough evidence of a possible breach of european union rules, the commission launches infringement procedures against member states. this can happen if member states do not transpose legislation and, of course, if it is not implemented correctly. as an example, seven infringement procedures have been launched against member states which have not connected to the european register of road transport undertakings and three against those that have not implemented the cabotage provisions correctly. in the past we have also quickly followed up member states which did not transpose existing legislation. for instance, 15 infringement cases were launched in 2011 following the extension of the self-employed drivers directive. two cases went to the court of justice of the european union and in fact all cases were closed in 2013. so the commission very much welcomes any input from honourable members who received substantive evidence of cases infringing european union legislation. the commission will continue to support member states in correctly enforcing the road transport acquis. proper enforcement of and above all compliance with road transport provisions is essential to guarantee a level playing field in the road transport market. it should not just be enforcement officers who are responsible for this. all parties involved in the supply chain, from freight forwarders to drivers, should organise their activities to comply with all applicable rules. we look forward to your support in creating a culture of compliance throughout the sector and i thank you again for your question.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to answer on behalf of my colleague, cecilia malmström, who is unfortunately not able to attend today’s session. the return directive provides very clearly that, after 18 months, administrative detention must be stopped and only lesser measures, such as residence restrictions or regular reporting can be applied. in our recent communication on eu return policy, we noted that before the return directive was adopted the maximum length of detention varied significantly across member states and in at least nine there was no upper ceiling on how long returnees could be detained. the return directive has contributed to a convergence and overall to the reduction of maximum detention periods across the european union. while the legal time limits for detention have increased in eight member states, they have decreased in 12 member states. all member states, including greece, now have legislation in force which respects the maximum periods provided by the directive. the only exception is the united kingdom, which decided not to opt into the return directive and which still allows unlimited detention. however, in an opinion last month, the greek state legal council concluded that, after a maximum of 18 months’ detention, it is possible to impose a further obligation on non-cooperating returnees to remain in a centre. the commission is concerned about the practical effects of this opinion on greek administrative practice. according to a preliminary commission analysis, the wording of the opinion is ambiguous and it remains to be seen if it will be used by the greek administration as a basis for practices compatible with the directive or incompatible ones. the return directive does not prevent the use of measures such as residence restrictions or regular reporting obligations for returnees released from detention. the important point is the nature of these measures. once the restrictions reach the level of deprivation of liberty, they would have to be considered as de facto detention. the commission will ask greece about the practical application and consider further steps once it has been clarified how the opinion is actually being applied. as regards detention conditions in greece more generally, the commission is constantly monitoring the implementation of the greek action plan on asylum and migration. in this context, the greek authorities have already closed some of the centres mentioned in the msf report, such as pagani in lesvos, palaio elliniko, aspropyrgos, tychero, piraeus, and venna. with the support of the european return fund, some modern detention centres have been opened and some other facilities have been renovated. however, there is still room for improvement. the report by médecins sans frontières (msf) primarily described an alarming situation in the detention centre located in komotini. the commission has already sent an inquiry to the greek authorities to know how the substantial support received by greece under the return fund to improve detention conditions in the pre-removal centre has been used in practice. the commission has regularly visited the detention centres in the region of athens – most recently in march – and is ready to go back to greece very soon to check the situation in the other detention centres, including komotini. finally, regarding any possible infringement procedures. to ensure mutual trust between the commission services and the member states, a degree of confidentiality is of course essential. the commission therefore does not comment on ongoing or planned infringement procedures but the commission will of course not hesitate to take appropriate steps if necessary. in conclusion, let me insist that the commission will follow up on all shortcomings identified in our recent implementation report on the return directive. in the context of the overall monitoring of the implementation of the directive, and in particular in the context of the greek action plan on asylum and migration, we will pay particular attention to those provisions of the directive which relate to the detention of returnees, safeguards and legal remedies, as well as the treatment of minors and other vulnerable persons in the return procedures. the new schengen evaluation mechanism will provide further opportunities to examine and assess the practices of member states in these areas and to check whether member states are fully complying with the directive and international human rights standards.
mr president, i trust our excitable friend is now lying down in a darkened room. i was one of those who negotiated the return directive. certainly the section on detention was an extremely difficult one and i think that the results are not results which we should necessarily be proud of, but the directive is extremely clear that any detention shall only be maintained as long as removal arrangements are in progress and executed with due diligence. so that means that things have to be moving, people have to be informed of what is happening and if that is not the case they should not be in detention. the courts are clear on this, unhcr has raised questions about the changes going on in greece, but i think we also have some issues here in terms of the follow-up to the stockholm programme, in what we are doing that actually helps make returns sustainable in terms of preparation, prospects and indeed follow-up, to find out what actually does happen to people on return. we have reports – verified reports – of people tortured on return, for example to sri lanka and indeed other countries. i think we also need to be paying more attention to those who cannot be returned, either because of the lack of cooperation of the country of return or the situation in that country and of those who are actually stateless. we have to avoid deliberately making people destitute and potential victims of criminals who prey on the vulnerable. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i think we have at least been able to talk to each other sensibly about these extremely difficult issues over the past. as a political group, we have problems with the readmission agreements, particularly when they are linked to questions of trade, because the readmission agreement is about individuals – human beings – and how we actually treat them. in terms of an integrated approach, i think you are right. the european union is very good at having a sort of piecemeal approach, but it has not looked at how these approaches actually work together, either for the benefit of the individuals concerned, or indeed for that of the societies in which they are moving.
mr president, there is a principle in english civil law called ‘to one who is willing, no harm is done’. in other words, you cannot sue if you put yourself in danger of loss or injury. these illegal immigrants were not kidnapped in their own countries by wicked europeans who then brought them to europe and incarcerated them for eighteen months or more. they chose to enter an eu country illegally and then avoided being repatriated. presumably they are free to return to their countries of origin, but refuse to do so. we have heard that illegal immigrants – those who do not leave – are usually given a piece of paper ordering them to leave, in order to avoid them disappearing. if their stay is a long one it is usually because of extensive court actions to avoid repatriation. while talking about a breach of the returns directive, we learned in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on 31 march that in 2012 only 37% of those given a return decision eventually left. the other 63% remained.
mr president, i welcome this trade negotiation, but have to say that, unlike my colleague, i believe it must be about more than just simply opening up markets. firstly, we have to make sure that any agreement promotes fair growth in vietnam. in particular, we have to deal with the issue of land grabbing, which is already a significant problem in vietnam, and we would not want any free trade agreement to encourage further land grabbing by european or other companies. secondly, like other colleagues, i insist that in any such agreement we have a robust development and human rights chapter. for my group, this will be a red line and we will insist on it. on animal welfare, we think it is important that we include animal welfare in any agreement with vietnam. the situation of animals then spills over into the phytosanitary situation. the situation of animals in vietnam is appalling. we already have the korean agreement as a template for this. so if we can do it with korea, we can do it with vietnam. finally, i believe that an agreement with vietnam, important as it is, is only a precursor for a regional agreement, and our aim should be to have an asean agreement as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, since the start of negotiations on this free trade agreement between the european union and vietnam in january 2012, important steps have been taken towards its definition and conclusion. i really welcome the progress vietnam has made in respecting human and labour rights, and i hope that this agreement will be a decisive step in extending these rights. i would like to stress the importance of including a chapter on sustainable development, with binding clauses, as this is a cornerstone of european trade policy. i would also like to stress that the respective interests and red lines of both sides should not be an insurmountable obstacle to the successful conclusion of the negotiations, because this agreement will undoubtedly represent a great opportunity for both sides in areas such as trade flows and foreign direct investment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, thank you very much to all the members of the parliament who have spoken in this discussion. most of the interventions coincided with the commission position that this free trade agreement should, if possible, be concluded this year and that this agreement would be positive for many reasons and for both sides. let me share some of the comments and concerns raised. first of all, the question of human rights, because it is extremely important that our economic and trade partners protect human rights. we are addressing human rights in our institutional dialogue under the eu-vietnam partnership and cooperation agreement and we will be extremely careful in monitoring protection of human rights and the situation of human rights which may be at risk in this country. regarding labour rights: labour issues are covered in the trade and sustainable development chapter of the free trade agreement in the present state of this text which is being negotiated and our negotiators have been able to agree on robust language on matters related to the ilo. good progress was also made on provisions dedicated to upholding levels of labour protection. another element which has been raised is animal protection. vietnam has agreed to include these issues in the text. vietnam prefers to cover the provisions in the trade and sustainable development chapter, but we keep pushing through our negotiators to have it in the chapter on sanitary and phytosanitary measures. so thanks for all your contributions, thanks for your comments, and i hope that in the first months of the next parliament we will be able – or the commission will be able – to inform you about the successful conclusion of these negotiations.
mr president, very briefly, firstly to welcome what we have just heard about the progress on the strategic partnership agreement, but to emphasise that over the summer we are going to have to decide whether we move on to a free trade agreement with japan. i very much hope that when the commission does its assessment of the current state of negotiations with japan it will be able to come forward and say that we should move on and start negotiating a free trade agreement. japan shares many of our values. it is a market that is very similar to ours, a mature economy with a number of elderly people, significant debt, unfortunately again not unlike us. i think there is a win-win situation in improving trade between japan and the european union, but we can only move ahead with a free trade agreement if japan is serious about tackling non-tariff barriers and actually making it possible for european companies to operate in japan on the basis of a level playing field. i hope that when we get the assessment that is what it will say: that it is feasible to go ahead and enter into detailed free trade agreement negotiations.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, let me thank very much all the members of this parliament who have intervened in this discussion and, of course, i want to thank mr peterle very much as the rapporteur of this report on the strategic partnership agreement between the eu and japan. the commission very much welcomes parliamentʼs engagement in this important upgrade to our bilateral relations with japan. since the joint declaration signed in 1991, ties between the eu and japan have deepened and cooperation now extends to almost every conceivable area from political, economic and sectoral specific matters – and some of these specific matters are extremely important, such as nuclear safety, climate change, research and innovation, and people-to-people exchanges. nevertheless the comprehensive package of the strategic partnership agreement and a flanking free trade agreement should enable both us, the eu, and japan to significantly enhance the cooperation between our strategic friends and partners. this should have a significant benefit for our businesses and citizens both in terms of growth and jobs via market openings to be negotiated in the free trade agreement, as well as in the political, economic and sectoral areas under the strategic partnership agreement which is the focus of this excellent report that we are discussing today. while we obviously cannot predict exactly what will flow from the negotiations, as the negotiations are still very much a work in progress, given the range of common societal challenges that the eu and japan both face – ageing, remaining competitive, non-traditional security threats such as international terrorism, pandemics and cyber-attacks, exploring space for the benefit of all mankind, and others – we are confident that we will be able to negotiate an agreement which will respond to the current and future needs of our citizens and thus significantly increase our visibility in probably the most dynamic area in the world. our combined economic, technological and increasing political might will be the engines of this cooperation, but it will continue to be underpinned by the bases of shared values and principles that lie at the core of the ties between europe and japan. japan is a stable democracy that shares our attachment to global norms and standards in the area of democracy, human rights, gender equality and the rule of law. i recall, and very much welcome, japanese alignment with the eu’s position on ukraine, an issue that presidents van rompuy and barroso discussed with prime minister abe during the recent nuclear security summit in the hague. it is this common basis which allows us to maintain very close ties with a significant player in the asean-pacific region and which will shape our discussions at the next eu-japan summit to be held in europe later this spring. we will continue to work with the new parliament to ensure that our common goal of achieving a mutually beneficial upgrade in relations with japan can be negotiated in a reasonable time frame, in line exactly with the recommendations contained in mr peterleʼs report.
madam president, yet again we vote on a report full of insane sabre-rattling against undemocratic russia but, as the nominations deadline for the eu elections approached for italy yesterday, the police force of your occupation government arrested dozens of forza nuova activists, imprisoning them without any justification ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i think that ms[nbsp ]harms forgot that the ecr and i were both present at the negotiations. we have signed the joint motion and we support the call for a roll-call vote.
madam president, i am one of the shadow rapporteurs for this text. i think you said that the original text of 22 fell. it should not have fallen; we should have voted on it, i think.
in writing. - this report concerns the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and albania that will update its status after accession of croatia to the eu. this agreement is a positive step forward in european-albanian relations, and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i support more cooperation with these countries through the european asylum support office as it adds value to eu-wide efforts to create responsible and efficient management on asylum issues. for this reason, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i support more cooperation with these countries through the european asylum support office as it adds value to eu-wide efforts to create responsible and efficient management on asylum issues. for this reason, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the uk strongly supports implementation of maritime spatial planning (msp) and integrated coastal management (icm) as they contribute to more effective management of marine activities and sustainable use of marine resources. within the eu, the uk is at the forefront of implementing both policies. the final agreement should have no or minimal impact on our existing process and will not impose new or added burdens. the icm element has been dropped from the final agreement in exchange for references to, and requirements on, land-sea interactions. the importance of this relationship between land, coast and sea is already reflected in our marine planning processes. the agreement allows the uk to move forward with the delivery of marine planning and recommend its adoption. it contains additional safeguards to preclude any overlap with or impact on land planning, and underlines that the content of the marine plans will be determined by member states. overall this report is a positive proposal that should benefit our coastlines in wales, and therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted against the 2015 parliament budget estimates. i feel that a 2.24[nbsp ]% increase in the budget compared to 2014 is unjustified. the liberal democrats tabled an amendment to the package which called for a freeze in real terms in the budget. it is regrettable that the two biggest groups in parliament voted against our amendment and kept the 2.24[nbsp ]% increase in the budget for 2015.
in writing. - as probably my last remarks in parliament, i can predict that there will be no united states of europe including the uk, because of the inertia and silence of westminster which, like any existing organisation, puts preserving itself ahead of explaining future options to the public. a united europe is the right way ahead for our corner of the planet. of course there are unsatisfactory aspects, due to compromises between 28 member states – such as the need to stop parliament trekking twelve times per year to strasbourg, and to abolish the useless committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee. the eu is an amazing achievement: permanent peace, freedom and democracy. many major problems face us. the greatest is climate change, a huge threat to the way of life of future generations. another is the growth of cross-border organised crime, which the national capitals also fail to fight through reluctance to share powers. they fail to create an fbi for our continent and a common external border force. i hope that, one day, the eu will directly elect its own president and that i will be able to cast a vote.
in writing. - the committee on budgets and the bureau agreed to set the draft estimates at 2.2[nbsp ]%, including 0.4[nbsp ]% for the salary adjustment for 2012. in addition, it was agreed that the secretary-general should produce an estimate of the construction costs of the new kad building in time for the reading of the budget in the autumn. given that the inflation rate (as set out by eurostat) is considerably below the 2.2[nbsp ]% figure agreed, i voted against the report.
in writing. - regarding rules governing actions for damages under national law for infringements of the competition law, it has been an amazing privilege to be an mep, for thirty years, to help in the project of building a united europe. i am sad if this is the end. as others have said, "it was the best time of my life". it's been amazing to work at the frontier on new problems, rather than the dreary pendulum at westminster. it's been amazing to work with brilliant people. alas, there have also been buffoons, able to orate but of rigid antique views, unfortunately more than once in my own region. as a brit in the eu has been to always be at the back of the queue, because westminster leaders have failed to take advantage of our leading role. historians may wonder why britain's decline was steep: it was due to a failure to face the future, preferring to dream of the past. the problem remains for an mep who represents millions of people: how to communicate with the voters. the "democratic deficit" remains, 27 years after i apparently coined the phrase in my 1986 pamphlet. to those who return, i say "continue building a united europe. and i hope that britain doesn't choose economic suicide by opting out.
in writing. - this proposal aims to improve the ability of those wronged by infringements of competition rules to claim compensation, in particular by the introduction of a limited disclosure regime for documents which would enable claimants to properly make their case. the recent amendments in trilogue have meant i can now support this legislation.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of the report on psychoactive substances today. while i agree that we need to address the issue of legal highs, i feel that the current proposal does not allow member states the flexibility required to respond swiftly and effectively to this fast-changing market. the profileration of new psychoactive substances is influenced by regional, national, international, social, economic and other factors meaning that each member state may be affected differently and have different issues to face in this respect. therefore, while cooperation is welcome on an eu level, member states themselves are best placed to deal with problems concerning psychoactive substances which may be prevalent on their territory.
in writing. - under this proposal new psychoactive substances that pose severe health, social and safety risks and are subjected to permanent market restriction under the regulation are also subjected to the minimum criminal-law provisions on drug trafficking set by the new directive. the purpose is to avoid problems in member state cooperation owing to the fact that the offences in question are not punishable under the laws of both the requesting and the requested state.
in writing. - under this proposal new psychoactive substances that pose severe health, social and safety risks and are subjected to permanent market restriction under the regulation are also subjected to the minimum criminal-law provisions on drug trafficking set by the new directive. the purpose is to avoid problems in member state cooperation owing to the fact that the offences in question are not punishable under the laws of both the requesting and the requested state.
in writing. - this report considers future economic, environmental, scientific and cultural cooperation, shared human rights values, and ongoing political and regional dialogue. i voted in favour, as this will strengthen the uk’s and japan’s long-standing economic relationship, and sustain thousands of jobs and companies in the uk.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it promotes respect for cultural diversity and tolerance vis-à-vis different concepts and beliefs, while combating all kinds of extremisms. it also strongly deplores acts of violence against all religious communities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for both parties to negotiate a balanced outcome, to foster open and fair competition between public and private market participants, to eliminate both tariffs and non-tariff barriers, to implement respect for a variety of intellectual property rights, and to commit to internationally shared values and standards in the area of human rights, labour rights and environmental standards.
in writing. - this resolution was drafted in response to the conclusions drawn from the commission’s consultation to find the ‘top ten’ most burdensome legislative acts for smes. the consultation identified a number of pieces of legislation that conservatives have long called for reform on, such as those on working time, temporary workers and the reach chemicals law. i strongly support this resolution which recognises the urgency of alleviating regulatory burdens on smes and calls on the commission to do more as part of a systematic and horizontal policy approach on minimising the burden of eu regulation.
mr president, the plight of minorities and refugees in syria is indeed terrible, but who have they fled from? i went to syria twice last summer and wrote the letter that the syrian government sent to help sway the uk parliament’s vote against a bombing campaign that would have killed and displaced even more innocent victims. while i was there, i met christian, alawite and muslim refugees. i can tell you that huge numbers of them have been forced from their homes by the same jihadi rebel terrorists that the eu has done so much to help. if you really care about the people of syria, you should insist that the cia and zionist warmongers stop arming their jihadi mercenaries and you should impose sanctions on saudi arabia and qatar for funding the invasion of syria by the thousands of islamist cut-throats from whom so many shia, christians, alawites and moderate sunnis have had to flee for their lives.
mr president, we all agree that the communist regime in north korea is an undemocratic shame. what are we to make of a regime that jails its opponents on trumped-up charges and keeps them in prison, even when the political motivation for it is tape-recorded and exposed? what are we to make of a regime that claims to hold free and fair elections, but then arrests its opponents to stop them collecting and delivering the 300[nbsp ]000 signatures they need to stand? if it happened in north korea you would rightly condemn it, but the victims in my first example are greeks, and in my second, italians. because the systematic police repression of forza nuova activists has happened there in the last 24 hours. so stop whining about north korea, as it is totally hypocritical unless you also stand for the right of european electors to choose golden dawn or forza nuova if they so wish. you have no power at all to change north korea, vile though the communist regime there undoubtedly is, but you could order your backyard occupation puppet regimes to restore democracy in greece and italy this afternoon. people in glass houses should not throw stones.
mr president, i rise to speak with a sense of duty. like so many of you arriving here today for the first time, i came in 2004 with great hope and celebration: we were reunifying our continent after decades of division. but today, colleagues, if we choose to listen there is a message for us to hear, a message which requires us to change our ways. i am told this election is a foregone conclusion, that the deal has been done before a single vote has been cast, and that i and you should simply bow to the inevitable. colleagues, there is nothing more sacred in the world of democratic politics than the right to vote: to cast a ballot for beliefs sincerely held, to express a choice that reflects the interests of all those who we have been elected to serve, to give a voice to cherished ideals and principles. but is that what we are being invited by some to do here today? what have we become if the presidency of this house – an office that should rise above partisan politics and ordinary political ambition – is reduced to nothing more than a bargaining chip, a counter in a game, a consolation prize for failing to get a consolation prize, plan d in a political life where plans a, b, and c have failed? we were told in the recent election that this time it would be different, that transparency would prevail over secrecy, that principle would override expediency, that honest, democratic politics would triumph over the backward-looking backroom deal. but sadly, just a few weeks after the european elections, we are being invited to endorse a cosy consensus brokered behind closed doors. this is a shoddy, shabby, shameful vision of our union. this is not a vision i could possibly share. it is a mandate to carry on exactly as before, a deaf ear to the message conveyed by the majority who felt compelled to stay away from the ballot and the millions who felt compelled to demonstrate in the only way left to them by turning to the extremes. as a former commissioner once said, it is hard to respect a parliament that does not respect itself. well, i respect this parliament. it embodies so many hopes for the future. i did not come into politics to defend the status quo or to secure high offices for the select few. i am sure you did not either. all my political life, i have espoused the vision of europeans cooperating together in open, democratic and fair institutions. i am sure many of you also share this vision, in which one nation alone does not shape our paths and priorities, but we fight our battles and accept the results. we see this happening among our national leaders who, late last week, did not all agree but who have come together again to cooperate, as we too must do in order to respect the wishes of the electorate and deliver the change and opportunity they call for. of course, while we share hopes for the future, we have many different views about the route to be chosen to fulfil these aspirations. our institutions should not, however, be snared by one political faction or another or traded for control elsewhere. i believe that the president of parliament should not use his office to express personal opinions or promote his personal interests or to advance his personal career. no, i have a more noble vision for the office of president of our house. the president should reflect the diversity of this house, as this house reflects the diversity of the peoples of europe. the president should be fair to all, open to all, attentive to all. the president should represent this house with honour and dignity throughout europe and indeed the world. that is the kind of president i aspire to be. i do not want to play politics: i want to enhance the reputation of our shared institution. i do not want to look after my interests, i want to look after yours. i do not want to return to the politics of backroom deals of years gone by, i want to reach out to all those europeans who look to our institution with hope for the future. this is my dream for the european parliament, but such dreams will not become reality if we allow the better angels of our nature to be defeated by political calculation or personal ambition. when you are about to cast your ballot this morning, and you stand alone with your beliefs and conscience in making your democratic choice, will you vote for the backroom deal, or will you vote for a europe of openness, transparency, democracy and hope? i humbly ask for your support for my vision of a presidency worthy of this house and worthy of the peoples of europe. (applause)
mr president, i was trying to get your attention earlier on to say that i think rule 17 does not preclude us also hearing from the vice-presidential candidates, as we did from the presidential candidates. i would not say we needed as long as for the presidential candidates – i think one minute each would have been sufficient for us to get an idea of who exactly we are voting for – but i think that it would have been a very helpful thing to do in terms of transparency, because there is a huge number of new members in this house.
blue-card question. – mr pittella, thank you for taking my question. in your speech, as conveyed by the interpreter, you described the nomination of mr juncker as a victory for democracy. at the next session of parliament will mr juncker’s name be the only name put forward for parliament to vote on? if mr juncker’s name is the only name put forward for parliament to vote on (as has always happened in the past), how can this possibly be a victory for democracy – even for a socialist? (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i stand before you as the third new leader today – the third virgin on the front row, if you like, but the leader of the third-largest group here in the european parliament. (applause and gradually some laughter) they take a bit of time to warm up. much has been said about the winners and losers in the recent european elections. let me ask you to consider the real loser: the status quo. for a growing number of people believe that europe cannot go on as it is. europe has to change, and that change has to start now. they do not believe that the choice is between more europe or no europe: they want a better europe, a europe that allows our nation states to cooperate freely and not a one-size-fits-all european super-state; a europe which embraces the future, not one that lives in the past; a europe to meet the challenges of the 2050s, not the problems of the 1950s. and in the ecr we aspire to give these people a voice. so as the leader of this new, exciting, growing force, i want the ecr to become an exciting hub for new ideas for reform: ideas that make the eu fit for the challenges of the future in an interconnected global economy. but so far this week we have seen too much of the politics of the past – the type of politics that voters rejected in may. that is why, to all those new and re-elected meps across the house, i make this plea: let us turn our backs on the parliament of the backroom deal and the division of spoils. let us reject a parliament of self-interest and personal ambition. let us leave behind a parliament of intolerance towards minority views that challenge the conventional wisdom. instead, let us build a parliament based on tolerance and respect. let us build a parliament of passionate debates and stimulating ideas, and let us build a parliament that seeks fresh approaches and new solutions. let me give you all this pledge. our group will work together and form coalitions with others based on ideas for reform, and we take the nomination of mr juncker in the same spirit. our concerns about the process are well known. they need not be repeated again today, because we are a group that wants to look forward, not back. but if this parliament elects mr juncker, then we will work with him, and we will work with the commission if he pursues a forward-looking agenda of reform; if he pursues a forward-looking agenda of decentralisation; and if he pursues a forward-looking agenda to face the challenges of the 2050s and not to look back to the ideas of the 1950s. mr van rompuy, we welcome the fact that the summit communiqué set out a number of priorities for the future. we welcome the reference to different paths of integration, recognising the diversities of our interests and our traditions in our different member states, a flexible europe of nation states cooperating where there is mutual interest and public support rather than that old dream of a one-size-fits-all european super-state. let us turn those ideas from the european council statement – of exploiting the single market, of creating a climate of entrepreneurship, of opening trade, of enhancing energy security and efficiency, of supporting our neighbourhood and of cutting bureaucracy – let us turn those ideas into the building blocks for reform. if you want to deliver real change in the eu, we look forward to cooperating with you. if you want to defend the status quo, we will urge you to embrace change. if you want to look back to the past, we will confront you with the challenges of the future. and that is the real division in this parliament today: between those who want to prepare the european union for the 2050s and those who cling to the ideas of the 1950s. the ecr is a new force with a modern agenda: to give europe a fresh start. that is our belief and our mission. we will work with all of you who want to succeed, by embracing the challenges of the 21st century together. (applause)
blue-card question. – i would just like to clarify a point that mr verhofstadt made. mr cameron is actually a member of parliament for witney, where he has been elected. mr juncker has not been elected by the people. that is the key difference, mr verhofstadt, and that is the reason why people are turning against the european union. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, good morning, and what a privilege it is to address the three great presidents of the european union on behalf of my group and on behalf of ukip, which topped the poll in the united kingdom. not, of course, that it happened only there: right across europe, on the left, the centre and the right, there are now more eurosceptics in this parliament than have ever been seen before. so imagine my surprise, on 27 may – heading to the conference of presidents’ meeting in brussels, where all the european leaders were sat in a room and i was not sure whether they would be nice or nasty to me, and whether they would accept that something fundamental had changed – when i found that, no, it was business as usual. coming from the uk, we did not even realise that these elections were seen to be significant as far as the next commission president was concerned. the tories did not have a horse in the race; the british labour party disowned martin schulz; and, as for the liberal democrats – who, i am pleased to say, have collapsed to one member – had you put old verhofstadt on british television they would have lost the lot! so we were pretty unaware of what was going on. a victory for democracy? i am not sure. who is the loser? martin schulz. he has become the president again of the european parliament. it all looks like a bit of a stitch-up to me. dave obviously misunderstood the mood. not realising this, and after some initial encouragement from a few other member states which he thought might block mr juncker, he then ran into the new golden rule of eu politics, which is that when ms merkel speaks the other heads of state obey. and the support for us simply melted away. you would have thought it was time to apply the principle ‘when in a hole, stop digging’ – but no, dave kept on digging away, and i must say as the final vote approached it began to feel a bit like the eurovision song contest where it does not really matter how good the british entry is: such is the dislike of our country around much of europe that we are always going to lose. i wonder what the prospects are now for renegotiation. well, mr juncker has had a rough ride in the british press: we are told that he drinks cognac for breakfast (that is not in the ukip manifesto, i promise you); we are told he is ‘juncker the drunkard’; we are told he is a smoker. my god, isn’t that awful! some have even said that he drinks endless cups of black coffee, which is why he looks so old. i cannot see him being in any mood to concede. to come back to ms merkel: she was quite clear, after the summit when cameron challenged the principle of ever-closer union, and she very gracefully said that we are all allowed to move at different speeds towards ever-closer union, but we must continue in the same direction. we have a referendum coming up at some point in the not-too-distant future in britain. there is one thing that would convince the british voters to vote to remain part of a european union and that is a fundamental treaty change that says we no longer have to accept untrammelled access for countless millions of people from across the whole of europe. we need, and the british people – 80% of them – demand that we should get back control of our borders so that we can choose who comes to britain. (applause) having lost 26:2 in the last vote in the council of ministers, we are going to need to succeed with this. to end total free movement we are going to need the support of the european parliament. are you going to help britain to end the free movement of peoples? i do not think so. are we going to win 28-nil in the council of ministers? i do not think so. it is not going to happen. we are whistling in the wind and we are closer now to exit than ever. as for the rest of the eu, i suspect the next five years will bring endless misery for the southern mediterranean eurozone countries. that is perhaps reflected in the number of italians we now have in our group. and what have we seen in the last 48 hours? we have seen naked militarism, with the eu flag being virtually goose-stepped around the yard, we have heard the european anthem and, actually, i can tell you that we, the eurosceptics, are now the progressives. the two gentlemen we have just heard had nothing to say today. it was the usual dirge-like, dull looking-back to a model invented 50 years ago. we are the ones who want democracy, we are the ones who want nation states, we are the ones who want a global future for our countries, and do not want to be trapped inside this museum. (applause)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr lamberts, i have to say that you sound like somebody from the old communist era saying that, if anybody else has a different point of view, clearly they are mentally ill or there is something wrong with them. what you are going to have to get used to – all of you – is the idea that across the political spectrum there are now more eurosceptics in this parliament than there have ever been, and many of them do not subscribe to ever-closer union, they do not subscribe to that flag and they do not want a european anthem. they want a modern europe where we can trade together, cooperate together and have mutual respect for each other. i will tell you this, mr lamberts: do not worry too much about my presence, because within the next five years, i will not be here, all right? (applause)
mr president, the recent european elections delivered a stark message to these institutions: across europe, people went to the ballot box not to commend the eu for work done, but to express disillusionment and to call for radical change in how brussels operates. that genuine desire for a better europe must not be ignored. in the united kingdom – but not solely in the united kingdom – the consensus is that europe is not working. people see an eu that has lost its way, that is obsessed with ever closer union rather than what it was intended for: trade, cooperation and friendship. after the european summit and the anointing of mr juncker, and after listening to the tone of this debate, i fear that the european establishment intends to answer the people with more of the same. more of the same economic and monetary union, which has brought record unemployment and a generation of young people condemned to long term unemployment and loss of hope. colleagues, it is time for change. sadly the tone of this debate suggests business as usual.
mr president, last week the british prime minister suffered a humiliating defeat, outvoted 26 to 2. for someone who has staked britain’s membership of the eu on reforming europe, he is certainly not very good at making friends and influencing people. perhaps it was his decision to pull out of the epp and away from the centre-right leaders across europe; maybe it is the fact that he is now allied with the german version of ukip, or maybe it is his constant threats that he will pull out of the eu if he does not get his own way. it is clear to everyone that whatever cameron does is not really about trying to change the eu for the better but rather to appease certain sections of his own political party. it is not about the british national interest; it is about the interests of the tory party. yes, we need reform; the election results across europe told us that people expect better – an alternative to relentless austerity. they expect us to prioritise jobs and growth, and they expect us to address some of the absurdities of the eu, such as travelling here once a month. i have no doubt that a majority of us in this parliament are ready to take on those challenges, but we must ensure that the new commission president is up to the job of making the reforms we desperately need. in order to achieve real reform, you have to build alliances and work together; grandstanding, posturing and threats get you nowhere. europe started off divided over mr juncker, but cameron’s total incompetence has united europe against him to the detriment of the british people.
mr president, the european council is the most difficult of all the european institutions to be president of, because it cannot agree anything on policy matters without consensus from 28 very different presidents and prime ministers, many of whom are used to getting their own way in a national context. but none of them can get their way in this context without agreement from all 28 prima donnas around that table. so i would like to pay tribute to president van rompuy for the way that he succeeds, again and again, in getting at least some sort of consensus out of those 28 prima donnas. however, those consensuses are sometimes good and sometimes less good. the programme that has been agreed at this meeting for the future direction of the union is good in its headlines – but the devil is in the detail. when we talk about eu reform – and we all talk about reform; there is not a politician in europe who is not saying that we need to reform this european union – there is a big divergence as to what reforms. please do not go down the line of reform proposed by... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – we have heard a lot about philosophers today, and that has been very interesting. are you aware of the great british philosopher who said that ‘the trouble with socialism is you sooner or later run out of other people’s money’? you cannot create a recovery based on masses and masses of debt and bankruptcy for the whole of europe. otherwise, you will be bankrupt in the future. can you not see this?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister to the parliament. i am afraid that my speech will not be as flattering as the last one towards you. europe is in crisis. we see little or no growth. you have identified that global competitiveness is in decline. we see high levels of unemployment, and the results of the european elections are clear. whether you voted for the left or for the right in the last elections, europe cannot go on as it is. europe has to change. europe needs reform now. here in the european parliament, i am proud to lead the european conservatives and reformists group, a group committed to reform and to working with those who are prepared to take the tough decisions to meet the challenges of the 2050s, not look back to the 1950s. so, while we may not agree with the old idea of a united states of europe, i very much hope and believe, mr prime minister, that you are one of those modern politicians who seeks positive change to meet the challenges of the future. so, as you advance the agenda of your presidency, we will give you our support when you make the case for reform. we will give you our support if you make the case for economic reform, and we will look to you to champion the single market and the digital economy, to reduce bureaucracy and to cut red tape, to open up markets and to stimulate trade. on the digital economy, let us no longer seek to second guess digital entrepreneurs or to engage in the soviet-style economics that tells companies how much they can charge their customers. let us instead lay down a framework for strong competition and for cross-border commerce. then we should get out of the way and allow entrepreneurs to do what they do best: create jobs, generate wealth and improve our standard of living. that is why we welcome the commission’s second tranche of refit announcements to cut the burden on our businesses. but this parliament can help by asking some questions. where is legislation no longer needed? where is legislation destroying jobs? where is legislation standing in the way of economic growth? and do we really need all of the 180 proposals carried over from the last european parliament? on trade, my group will work with you for an eu that is open to trade, not an eu of protectionism sheltering uncompetitive businesses behind barriers at a cost to the consumers. we should instead seek more trade agreements with negotiations which are as transparent as possible to prevent those with an anti-trade agenda from hijacking these discussions. let us now turn to two vital political questions: the mediterranean and energy. all of us in this house have been shocked by the tragedies that continue to occur in the mediterranean. frontex can clearly play a role by helping to secure the borders and by stopping those seeking a new life from falling victim to traffickers or to the roaring seas. but, in meeting this challenge, it should be about cooperation and not coercion – and not the erosion of sovereign member states. turning to energy policy, we should seek to reduce our over-dependence on regimes which do not share our values, whether in the middle east or russia. so let us not seek yet another rhetorical union, but instead a functioning market identifying and eliminating the blockages in the single market and encouraging better interconnections. prime minister, you have a busy agenda. where we disagree with your proposals, we will offer an alternative. where you pursue the 1950s agenda of ever-closer union, we will urge you to look to the future but, where you look forward to the 2050s, we will work with you. we hope that a fresh face in the council chair will see fresh ideas and a fresh break in the politics of the past. if you can deliver this, we look forward to working with you. (applause)
blue-card question. – mr sassoli, thank you very much for your speech. you made a suggestion that the prime minister of italy has indeed had a vision for europe. well, i would like to ask you a question concerning the vision of europe of the italian prime minister when he made the following quote in this chamber: that in nigeria there were africans who attacked the girls because they have western values. is it correct that we should have a leader of a european parliament or a european government that suggests that western values are better than african values? i do not accept ... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – mr arias, we have heard about the injustice done to a christian woman in pakistan, and it is correct to say that. but i must say that injustice in countries like that poor country happens to everybody – not just christians – and it has to be deplored. what we in the european commission need to do, to stop people dying off the coast of lampedusa, is to have open trade with these countries in order to lift them out of poverty, so that they do not have to resort to asylum.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good luck and good wishes. prime minister renzi and minister mogherini for the italian presidency. i'm a big italian fan even though i'm english. i've always loved italy, but now i'm going to speak in shakespeare's language, i'm sorry. the eu rotating presidency has a major role to play in the european neighbourhood policy and one of its members, jordan, is now facing an existential threat from the terrorist onslaught by isis. what more can the european union do during the italian presidency to support this moderate monarchy and key ally in peace with israel and peace in the region and a two-state solution? second, given rome's traditional closeness to moscow, we need some reassurances from you and your government that any further aggression by president putin against ukraine will trigger eu sectoral economic sanctions as a consequence. we cannot allow annexation and illegal seizure of territory to prevail with our eastern partnership partners of ukraine, moldova or georgia. lastly, given the crisis in syria and iraq, what do you think of the referendum announced by president barzani for an independent kurdistan?
madam president, i want to raise on the floor of this house the excellent work of traidcraft in effectively challenging european supermarket power by highlighting the negative impact that certain supply chains can have on the poorest farmers across the world. we know that there are great benefits from fair trade. however, there are still too many unfair commercial practices which have to be exposed and tackled. therefore i call on the european commission, and in particular the new set of commissioners, to take urgent action to address these vitally important issues. i have had dozens of constituent inquiries: these issues matter to european citizens. after all, the test of our progress in this house will not be that we helped those who already have much but that we helped those that have so little in this world.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, mr juncker, major change does not happen on its own. it needs leadership to drive it; leadership that looks forward, not back; leadership that recognises the challenges of the 2050s – not those of 1950s; leadership that understands the concerns of the people of europe, who want a europe of cooperation – not a europe of centralisation. if you put forward an agenda that opens markets, tears down barriers and decentralises power, then we will stand with you. but if you espouse an old, tired, backward-looking agenda, we will simply offer constructive, positive alternatives. many of us are looking for you to clarify your position, mr juncker. in last week’s hearings in the political groups on issues such as euro-federalism, maternity leave and budgetary rigour, you told the ecr one thing and seemed to tell the other groups another. we need the real mr junker to stand up and tell us what you really believe. but in reality, you know and we know that none of this really matters. the deal has been done; the spoils have been shared out. the election which was supposed to end all backroom deals has resulted in the mother of all backroom deals. you know, and we know, that you are likely to be the next president of the commission. mr juncker, we wish you well, but members of my political group will not be able to vote for your today for two reasons: firstly we do not subscribe to the process that brought you here; we do not believe that you have an eu-wide mandate that stretches across all 28 member states. secondly, members of my group are not yet convinced that you are the right man to lead the charge for european reform. i hope that, over the next few years, you will prove us wrong. the question i want to put to you is this: do you want your commission to be the last of an old era or the first of a new era? that is the crux of the leadership we would like to see. we need leadership to reform the budget for a new era, moving away from the idea that a bigger budget means a better budget. instead, let us have a better budget, to invest – and facilitate investment – in infrastructure, technology and research. let our children inherit a vibrant economy built for their future. they must not inherit the large debts built up in the past. instead of focusing on how to raise money from our own resources, let us lead a debate towards how we spend taxpayers’ money better. that is why my group would like to see a dedicated commissioner for budgetary control. we need leadership to build a single market fit for the new era. yet eight years since the services directive, a single market in services is still far from reality. why do we not sit down with the digital entrepreneurs and ask them about the barriers they face – and then let us tear them down. it is time we delivered a single market for all. let us look at the energy market and together identify and remove blockages in it; create incentives for consumers to promote energy efficiency, and ensure investment in energy security, new energy sources and more interconnectors to reduce our dependence on regimes in the middle east and russia. we need leadership to deliver trade and international development policies fit for a new era: more open, and yet more transparent trade agreements with fast growing economies, but also international development programmes to promote property rights, legal and financial systems, support for entrepreneurs in poorer countries to create wealth and jobs for local people in their countries. we need leadership to promote better regulations that are fit for a new era; talk to businesses of all sizes directly and ask them what stops them from creating extra jobs, what stops them from creating that growth. we need leadership to address the underlying weaknesses in the eurozone; the significant productivity gaps that are inflicting job losses and crippling levels of youth unemployment in southern europe. now, with the euro, many member states have lost the instrument of exchange rates to address these problems. as a result, we have seen burdens passed from banks to taxpayers, treaties broken and untold state intervention. (scattered applause) we need leadership on immigration in order to restore people’s faith in both the principle of free movement of those workers who wish to work and contribute to their new host countries, as well as in controlled migration which respects the rights of all member states – both those welcoming new workers, and those member states who are losing their youngest and brightest talents to other countries. mr juncker, today i have only outlined a few examples of where leadership is needed to build an eu fit for a new era; to build an eu fit for the century ahead of us, not the century behind us; leadership to address the fears and suspicions of our voters towards the eu’s direction; leadership which seeks to fulfil people’s hopes and aspirations for the future. sadly, mr juncker, members of my group do not feel able to vote for you today. but where you put forward an agenda which leads the eu towards the future – to the challenges of a new era – then you will be able to look to us for support in the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, if this is european democracy in action, as we have heard this morning, then i suggest we have a rethink. we are told that as a result of the european elections, mr juncker here is the nominee. well i can tell you that absolutely nobody in the united kingdom knew that when they voted in the european elections it had anything to do with the next nominee. the truth of it is that no voters in any of the countries actually realised what this process was. mr juncker’s name did not appear on any single ballot paper. the whole thing has been the most extraordinary stitch-up. the loser, mr schulz, gets the consolation prize of being an unprecedented second-term president in parliament. it is all just a pretence that we are increasing democracy. of course, i will be told ‘ah yes, but hang on a second, the european parliament, the elected bit of the european institutions, did actually have a say and did decide whether mr juncker was to become commission president or not’. well, let us just have a think about the process we are about to engage in. we are all going to be asked to vote – and we have got one candidate to vote for! it is like good old soviet times, isn’t it? surely, democracy means you get rather more of a choice than one. but far worse than that is that it is going to be a secret ballot. you really could not invent it, could you? hard on the heels of european elections, our voters are not going to know how any of us have voted. i would say to you mr schulz, as president of the parliament, that parliament should not vote in secret. the whole point of being publicly-elected representatives is that we should be held accountable for our actions to our own voters. to be asked to vote in secret is a huge insult to voters. (applause)i would have thought that after the huge advances in the eurosceptic vote, there might have been a rethink somewhere in brussels, but clearly that was not to be. mr cameron had a brief go and tried to oppose mr juncker’s candidacy, but he was busy succeeding with reshuffles in britain and failing with reshuffles here, and mrs merkel of course crushed him because what the german chancellor says goes in the modern europe. so what of our nominee? on the plus side, mr juncker, you are a sociable cove with a very much better sense of humour than most people i have met in brussels, and there is no question that you are a political operator. you have even managed over the last couple of weeks, as you have gone round the political groups, to change the mood music a bit. you have said that you do not believe in a united states of europe, and that you do not believe in a common european identity, but i have to say i did not believe a word of it. today you have proven that actually you are stuck back with the ideas of the old europe. you talked about mr delors being a hero of yours. i can understand that from your perspective, but you also talked about mr mitterrand and mr kohl as being heroes of yours. i would have thought a wartime collaborator and somebody who left german politics under a huge cloud of a massive party-funding scandal should not be the kind of people that we should stand up as great models of virtue in modern europe today. you talked about the need for a common foreign policy and security policy. you talked about the need for a common energy policy. what is clear is that you are going to carry on with the process of the centralisation of powers, which is not surprising because for 20 years you have been a key player in this whole process, which frankly has treated democracy with deliberate contempt. i think the best example is your quote about the french referendum on the constitution where you said if it is a ‘yes’ we will say ‘on we go’, and if it is a ‘no’ we will say ‘we continue’. how is that for belief in democracy? your dedication to the project is unchallengeable. you have said before that when it becomes serious, you have to lie. so in many ways you are the perfect candidate for a lot of people in this house and i have no doubt that you will get the nomination, but we are being asked to vote for the ultimate brussels insider, somebody who has always operated with dark backroom deals and stitch-ups, and i have to say that our group overwhelmingly will vote ‘no’. we do not want business as usual. we want real change. you said at the end of your speech that this is not the time for a revolution. i put it to you that there has already been a revolution. there has effectively been a coup d’état on nation state democracies without people realising, without people realising what was being done to them. after these elections, the eurosceptic may not yet have a majority in this house, but please do not think we are over, because the vast majority of european people do not want a european state, do not want a european commission to be the executive, do not want that flag and do not want that anthem. so, you will get elected and we will enjoy doing battle over the course of the next year or two. (applause)
in writing. – the appointment of mr junker as the new president of the european commission is drearily predictable. david cameron objected to mr junker, but was supported by only one of the other eu member state leaders. it was something of a mystery as to why mr cameron objected so strongly to mr junker in the first place, given that if he had not been selected for the job the alternative was martin schulz, who is just as big a champion of political and economic integration as mr junker. mr cameron was of course just playing to the gallery back home in the hope that his ʽpluckyʼ opposition to mr junker would win him some sympathy and give him a rise in the opinion polls. it did not work. it is obvious to everyone that the course the eu is embarked upon is to create a united states of europe, and it does not actually matter very much who is president of the commission because the project is bigger than the man or woman sitting in that chair. if the british people do not like it then their only solution is to demand that britain leaves the european union.
mr president, i am not happy to accept scrutinising a ballot which is secret and which should be public. sorry.
blue-card question. – well it is all just wonderful isn’t it? i am just hearing a lot of wind here. no-one is coming up with solutions. we are not talking about some sort of tin-pot state, we are talking about russia, which lost 80 million people in the last century: the siege of leningrad, the battle of stalingrad, a revolution. sanctions are not going to work, militarism is not going to work. so come on, give us some answers, because nobody is putting forward constructive proposals.
madam president, i am quite sure members of the parliament will join me in expressing concerns for those suffering in the ongoing conflict in ukraine and in hoping for a quick resolution. but it is my firm belief that the eu contributed to starting this conflict in the first place and that signing an agreement for deeper political ties with the ukraine was simply irresponsible, especially while taunting russia with sanctions. what a crazy way to go about sitting on the fence, as some in the parliament have demanded we do. do you not realise that much of europe is dependent on russian gas for winter warmth and that most of the constituents i represent are already struggling to pay their energy bills each month, without the added cost of increased wholesale prices? are you all so arrogant and out of touch as to think that the eu’s actions to-date have done nothing more than to throw fuel onto the flames of conflict, an especially dangerous act in a situation that threatens to take us back to the bad old days of the cold war? to me, it seems that the eu’s policy on the ukraine seems to be more about adding another country to its dictatorial empire in a political blitzkrieg that does nothing more than further its own selfish agenda, no matter what the costs. (applause)this is despite the potential for conflict escalation and spill-over that threatens the security and stability of the entire region and despite the increased security risk to the uk which we already have seen. another conflict is the last thing the united kingdom needs, coming on the back of over 20 years of the labour party’s wars and at a time of savage tory cuts to our already overstretched armed forces. in ukip we do not subscribe to the clausewitzean theory of war being merely the continuation of politics by other means. war is never desirable. ukip wish to see peace between all peoples brought through democracy, diplomacy and meaningful dialogue. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – we respect the sovereignty of all your countries – and actually i think that talking about respect for sovereignty in this place is a bit of a joke. (applause)
mr president, i am pleased to make my first speech since being elected as coordinator spokesperson for the socialist and democrat group on foreign affairs, to renew my warm acquaintance with commissioner füle and, of course, to help bring this parliament’s attention, at the beginning of our new parliamentary term, to the crisis in ukraine. this is a crisis which has critical humanitarian consequences in the country and on its borders, and far-reaching political consequences for the country, the neighbourhood, and for europe itself. i join all colleagues who have spoken in favour of a peace plan, and i add my explicit support for the proposal for a collective ban on arms sales. i call on other groups to support the s&d text calling on all sides to respect international and humanitarian law. i say to our epp colleagues that there is a proper debate about third stage sanctions. we support the recent decision to put separatists on the black list, but what we call for today – and what the council might decide tomorrow – has to be credible, or we will undermine our own position. the kharkiv human rights protection group has called eu sanctions ineffective. we owe it to them most of all to find solutions which represent a true consensus for us but which can be effective for them.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, at the start of this new parliament i want to lay out my group’s position on ttip as clearly as possible. we in the socialist and democratic group believe that ttip does have the potential to be a significant catalyst for jobs and growth, and we know that this could be the eu’s last chance to be a setter of global standards. if we do nothing we will be relegated from leaders to followers; it will be china, india, and brazil who will set the global standards, putting our industries at a significant disadvantage. as well as regulatory cooperation, we want to see the united states open up to european investment its transport sector and its public procurement, to level the playing field for our industries. we want to see quality european products such as parma ham and feta cheese given strong geographic protection against genetic products and misleading marketing, and we want to give our small and medium-sized enterprises the same opportunities as multinationals currently enjoy in easy access to the us market. we do accept that this agreement could and should benefit consumers, and that is why we welcome the fact that the commission has involved consumer groups, ngos and trade unions in the european discussion on priorities. for all of these reasons the socialists were proud to be at the birth of ttip, and we do not want to have to be its assassins. i want to tell the commission clearly now, though, that if we have to be, we will be, and that is why we want the commission to listen carefully to our concerns, such as those over food safety. regulatory convergence must not lead to chlorinated chickens, hormone-treated beef or gmos getting access to the european union market. we have had assurances from the commission on this but i want to tell you that we will keep reminding you of this and we will keep watching you throughout the whole of the negotiations. similarly with our concerns over investor-state dispute settlement (isds): we do not believe that this consultation is the end of the process. we want to ensure that the commission listens carefully to public opinion on this issue and that isds does not become a backdoor route for a corporate power grab. we also have concerns about public services; again we have had some assurances from the commission, but we want to make sure that our public services remain of the highest standard and receive the highest possible protection. we want to make sure that in this trade agreement there is no ratchet effect and there is no ability to prevent member states returning health, education and other vital services to public control if they have been privatised. so we will keep scrutinising ttip to make sure that the quality of our services remains high, that corporate power is not increased unnecessarily, that our high levels of protection are retained. but we have to say to the commission: we recognise that a good ttip would be good for europe, and the pledge we give to the commission and to the member states is that we will watch the outcome of this agreement and, if we think it benefits europe, benefits european jobs and european standards of living, we will vote for it. if we think it damages our concerns we will vote against it. we will make up our mind at the end; unlike some groups we have not made up our mind one way and unlike other groups we have not made up our mind the other way. we will judge this agreement on its merits at the end of the process. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i have my own position and my group has its own position, which is that we do not want investor-state dispute settlement in this agreement. we will judge the agreement at the end of the day, but at the moment our position is very clear: we do not think isds belongs in such an agreement because we think the normal legal system is the way to deal with these issues.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for addressing the issue of ttip here in the parliament with us today. it is vital that we keep in mind just how important a deal this is for the eu. we must grasp this opportunity: a free trade deal is good for growth and jobs, but this is particularly true of one of this scale. in the long term, we can expect it to boost the eu economy by as much as a hundred billion pounds annually, and this does not even take into account the benefits arising from the dynamic productivity gains which could be realised from a comprehensive deal. for the individual man or woman on both sides of the pond, they will notice that they have more products to choose from – products which are of a better standard and at a cheaper price. but we must also ensure that the deal benefits businesses on both sides of the atlantic, irrespective of size. we can help our smallest businesses by eliminating tariffs, by aligning customs processes at borders, and by increasing regulatory coherence between the eu and the us. if we take these steps, we can aspire to one day having a truly transatlantic market. there are, of course, concerns amongst a wider european public about this deal, particularly when it comes to food standards and investor-to-state dispute settlement. eu negotiators have ruled out the inclusion of hormone beef and chlorinated chicken, so i hope that this scaremongering will stop. while the isds will be there to act as a safeguard for investors, i am pleased that the commission has recognised concerns by launching a consultation with stakeholders on its provisions. commissioner de gucht, i urge you to keep your foot on the gas – to use an american phrase – with this deal until the end of your term. it is crucial that we build momentum with this deal, and for that we need renewed political support on both sides. at the same time –and as important as this deal is – let us remember that we must maintain and develop our existing trade relationships, which we have worked hard to build up over a number of years. we must deliver jobs and growth for our citizens and stay committed to keeping our markets open. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i do believe that there is a huge opportunity and potential for the ttip and for an eu-us free trade agreement to deliver for all businesses of all sizes, as i say irrespectively. we must take into consideration the impact it will have on small businesses, but we cannot undermine the opportunities that are available to them.
mr president, the ttip was a major issue during the european election campaign. i had hundreds of messages from constituents, trade unions, campaign groups and ngos in wales who were gravely concerned about its effects. these effects could be far-reaching and damaging – as we have heard from others – in terms of public services, food quality, the environment, health and much more. concern is growing, but in contrast to the negotiations, which are being held behind closed doors, my group very much welcomes the european citizens’ initiative launched publicly today by over 140 organisations in 18 member states, which demands that the negotiation mandate be repealed. one of the reasons for the disconnect between the eu and the people of wales and elsewhere is the perceived lack of democracy and the secrecy. on ttip we are being kept in the dark. this citizens’ initiative will enable the people’s voices to be heard, and i will encourage my constituents to support it.
mr president, first of all i would bring to your attention that we are here in strasbourg, when as a matter of fact negotiations will take place this week in brussels, but maybe that is our fault. i, in principle, am supportive of an agreement. however, negotiators on both sides must recognise the significant and valuable role of the european parliament. meps are the most direct and discreet form of public consultation, our constituents are the ones who are set to experience the benefits or costs of an agreement, so it is extremely important that we as their representatives are meaningfully involved. from an agricultural perspective we must adopt a dual approach which recognises both the opportunities and challenges of greater market access. our founding principle will be that ttip must not undermine eu standards or compromise local industries. fair trade for beef is a prime example of the necessary balance which is required; hormone-fed beef must not become the norm for our farmers, who are already under enormous pressure in the market.
mr president, we should not underestimate what a huge achievement a free pact with the us would be. the benefits to the eu economy are conservatively measured in the billions, and this is a practical step we can take to achieve real economic recovery. although investor-state dispute resolution and transparency are genuine issues, they are solvable and should not be used as an excuse for protectionism. the best way to get the global economy moving again is via increased capital flows with appropriate financial supervision and regulation that avoids loopholes between jurisdictions. ninety-five per cent of derivative trades and 80% of all financial transactions happen between the eu and the us. we finally have high-level agreements that our legislation on both sides of the atlantic should achieve the same outcomes, yet barriers remain. ttip should provide a framework for both the us and the eu to meet and solve remaining areas of contention, even outside of the formal trade agreement. the political will is already there to work together. it is now up to both american and eu politicians – and regulators – to show that they are able to achieve tangible results that really do break down the barriers to moving capital, as well as goods and services, on both sides.
mr president, recent pew research centre work on public opinion on ttip shows that while people on both sides of the atlantic do not yet fully oppose the trade deals, they generally do not expect to get more jobs, higher wages or lower prices out of them. that being the case, commissioner de gucht, what should you be doing to convince them that they will actually benefit from ttip? it feels like we have forgotten our history. working people in my home country only supported and continue to support the european union’s internal market because it comes attached to a social model, and public services are a key pillar of that social model. last week the eu chief negotiator wrote to allay the uk public’s fear about the use of ttip to lock in the current uk government’s back-door privatisation of our national health service. now we are not naive in the labour party or in the uk, we know that the biggest threat to our nhs is the tories and not ttip, but the british people do not want to see a narrow exemption only for it to become subject to privatisation creep in the years to come. what more can you do to reassure public sector users and workers that ttip will prevent further privatisation or liberalisation of our public services? since ‘trust me’ has not worked so far, will you commit to a public consultation on how we can protect our public services?
blue-card question. – madam president, i welcome hearing that the honourable member wants europe to grow economically, but i would like to ask her exactly how she thinks the maternity leave directive – and the extra burden of its cost to industry – is going to help that to happen.
madam president, it is absolutely disgraceful that there has been such a strong blocking minority in the council on this vitally important maternity leave directive. we all know that adequate maternity leave, and also reasonable leave for fathers, is crucial for women to work and for men and women to achieve a reasonable balance between work and family life. over the past few weeks, we have heard a lot about gender equality and how members of this parliament and of the commission and the council are all in favour of gender equality. well, the council should now put its money where its mouth is and actually work hard to get this directive through. i do not believe that it has not been possible to agree a compromise. other speakers have said that this is within our reach, and i believe it absolutely is. that is what we should be seeking to achieve now. it would be quite wrong to withdraw this directive now. the council should go back and work harder and achieve this compromise, which i believe is within our grasp.
madam president, i would like to ask how you arrived at five out of seven and how you chose the five, as i requested catch the eye before the beginning of this debate. why have i been excluded? i understand there were seven so why have you excluded two when you have consistently let people overrun their speaking time and there would have been plenty of time for all of us to have been able to speak? can you please confirm that we were allowed to speak only in the order in which we requested the time?
madam president, there is a lithuanian proverb that says ‘all that glitters is not gold, and all that is sticky is not tar’. the lithuanian people have taken heed of their proverb, with 55% under a recent eurobarometer poll stating that their country should not join the euro. but in the time-honoured eu tradition of ignoring the will of the people, the lithuanians were not offered a referendum. instead, the government decided to join on its own. furthermore, at yesterday’s economic and monetary dialogue meeting, mr draghi stated that the ecb was aware that the lithuanian economy has extreme variabilities. however, he said it is important to note that it had complied with all the ecb conditions on joining. well have we not heard that before? those assurances were given for greece, spain and portugal, and now it is plain for all to see what damage the euro has done to those great countries and what a terrible legacy has been left for the millions of unemployed people across those countries. we should support those lithuanians who want a referendum and who oppose joining the euro because they know that for those who champion the euro it glitters but for millions of ordinary people in europe the euro is certainly not golden.
blue-card question. – i have sat here for perhaps twenty minutes now and i have heard a number of speakers. the point i would like to make is that despite the reassurance of the last speaker, i sense a car crash waiting to happen. only a few minutes ago one of the speakers highlighted that you need good drivers, but equally you have to have your passengers on board. if, as we have heard in the last few minutes, the passengers in lithuania were not actually on board, it is very interesting that they still wish to pursue what they have set out upon.
mr president, the ecr group supports the green proposal. we believe it is very important that each candidate is treated on his/her merit. there is one candidate that we cannot support and yet your decision will force us to vote against all four. it is also important that members are aware of the financial consequences of the vote. can you confirm, mr president, that by appointing these four interim commissioners they will receive the benefits of being a commissioner for the rest of their lives, having served for only three months?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, may i take the opportunity to welcome you to the chair and encourage you to keep people to their speaking times. i will try to do my best. i am really pleased that our first proper session of this parliament is concentrating on this really important issue of youth unemployment – or youth employment if you want to be positive – and i would like to thank commissioner andor for his words. it is indeed encouraging that mr juncker has put job creation as his top priority, but we have to recognise that it is not the commission that creates jobs, it is not parliament that creates jobs, it is not even the member states’ governments that create jobs. it is businesses that create jobs. smes create 85% of new jobs across europe. so our job must be to create an environment where businesses can grow and can create jobs, and businesses will only create more jobs and recruit more people if the economic environment encourages growth: if they can rely on a qualified workforce, if labour markets are sufficiently flexible, if labour costs, including wages, are in line with productivity, if social protection systems make work more attractive, and if regulation is proportionate and evidence-based. we have seen a trend towards more skill-intensive jobs – almost 90% of the jobs expected to be created and become vacant by 2020 require medium or high qualifications – and europe’s education and training systems are not adapted to the business skills needs that we will need in the future years. we need a better supply of science, technology, engineering and maths skills, the stem subjects, and those are currently not going to match the increasing demands of business. there are encouraging signs and companies are bringing jobs back. we just have to encourage them.
madam president, it seems to me that many members of this place have forgotten that they claim to believe in the principle of subsidiarity. they have forgotten that decisions should be taken at the level closest to the citizen. the challenges facing each of the member states are varied and different. in my constituency of the north-east of england, almost one in four young people are unemployed. we have the highest levels of youth unemployment in the uk. our manufacturing industry, which was once the powerhouse of the region, has been decimated. it is european union legislation which is preventing us from being competitive once more. competitiveness is what drives economies forward; it is what is needed to prevent jobs going overseas. in the uk we need to learn from other countries; we need to learn from germany that there should be no stigma attached to manual jobs. we need to learn that young people should be taught to take as much pride from vocational as from academic routes. most of all we need an education system that reflects the needs of industry and 21st century society. the free movement of workers, which means uncontrolled immigration, causes a massive problem in the uk. that principle might have worked when all eu countries had similar standards of living but, when we have member states with a minimum wage of 80 pence an hour, migration to the uk becomes a big issue. it causes wage compression and it means experienced workers from other countries are able to take uk-based jobs and deprive british young people of their first step on the career ladder, and what we do not need is misguided european union intervention. as the president of the epp’s youth wing, costas kyranakis, has said, the youth guarantee fund is not working. the measures push short-term employment and short-term internships but, when only 9% of interns actually go on to get the job, this is not effective. the international labour organisation has said it is ineffective. the youth guarantee has come to mean guaranteed failure. sometimes the answer is not more europe. the answer is for countries to work together, for national governments to innovate, for us to learn from each other, to learn from best practice and to learn from the many charitable organisations which have a phenomenal success rate in getting young people back into work. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, the concrete measure is very simple, is it not? the problem we have at the moment is that we are getting more europe, we are getting more legislation, more red tape strangling our businesses and of course if we deal with that problem then we will be much more competitive. and on terms of free movement, is the whole point not that different countries with different standards of living actually have different needs and that when you try to have a one-size-fits-all straitjacket affecting 28 different countries at once, then you know that it is not going to work? the free movement is a principle of the 1950s and the 1960s. we live today in a 21st century society and it is high-time that this place grew up and recognised that the future does not lie with the failed old eu institutions. (applause)
blue-card question. – well, here we are again and all we can hear about is more money, more spending. the question i want to ask is: are you not aware that the answer is never more government? the answer is surely that our young people need work. if they have more opportunities, because the flow of immigrants coming into the countries to fill the jobs is less, surely our young people can then get a footing and a start in the workplace, rather than constantly being undercut and beaten by people coming from elsewhere in the continent who are not required. our young people need work in their own countries.
mr president, regarding the langen report on the adoption of the euro in lithuania, i would like to explain why i abstained on amendment 3 to article 7, which calls for reform of the eu treaty. no doubt the treaty is in urgent need of reform, but to vote in favour will be to accept the treaty in principle, which i cannot – and will not – do. i do not want the european union treaty to apply in the united kingdom in any way, shape or form. i want my country to leave the european union and not to be bound by any eu treaty, reformed or otherwise. britain’s accession to the treaties was in fact an act of treason, something i explain in detail in my little book, ‘inglorious revolution’, which you can get from bretwalda books ltd. britain should withdraw without delay from the european union, repudiate the treaty and restore her status as an independent, sovereign, democratic nation.
in writing. - according to the commission convergence report 2014 (com(2014)0324) and the european central bank convergence report of june 2014, lithuania now complies with the legal and economic preconditions for adoption of the euro laid down in article 140 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and protocol no 13 on the convergence criteria, namely: legal compatibility with the treaty, price stability, sound and sustainable public finances, durability of convergence, and exchange rate stability. the ecr group takes the view that eu member states which fulfil all the criteria and wish to join the euro should be allowed to do so. the group position was therefore in favour of the langen report.
in writing. - although the uk is not a member of the eurozone many other member states believe it is right for member states like lithuania to join. i am therefore pleased that lithuania has met the criteria, including low inflation and interest rates, and i voted in favour of lithuania joining the euro on 1 january 2015.
mr president, i rise on a point of order, under rule 11(2) which refers to members’ conduct being characterised by mutual respect, based on the values and principles laid down in the basic texts of the european union. we heard from mr janusz korwin-mikke in the previous debate language which is deeply unacceptable in this chamber. we heard racist language and i believe that a number of members have intimated to us that this is not the way that this mandate should begin. i want to intimate to this chamber that appropriate action should be taken by parliament’s services. cécile kyenge, the member next to me, has made the same remarks as myself and she may want to add to what i have said. (applause)
mr president, i supported and approved a reduction in the size of the eu budget. i also fully support and approve the commission’s proposals to increase spending on jobs, growth and competitiveness. but unless there is also a significant reduction in the other traditional spending patterns, then an ever-deepening payments crisis is inevitable. it is a crisis which, along with the long-standing and growing problems with rals, means that the current spending plans are unsustainable. the solution is not continually to seek an increased budget. instead, it is time we accept the fiscal limits, time we conduct a radical and strategic review of the whole budgetary process and time, in particular, to ensure that we prioritise spending strictly in line with value for money.
mr president, this is not a difficult subject. it is not rocket science. you cannot spend money you do not have. prioritise. what spending is not really necessary? if the political will existed in this chamber, you could have just one seat for the european parliament and save hundreds of millions of euros a year. if the political will existed in this chamber, you would scrap the eur 3 billion a year the eu spends promoting itself. that is a bigger advertising budget than coca-cola. if the political will existed in this place, you could scrap many of the luxuries that we enjoy as meps and take a lead in showing that economy begins at home. but just three hours ago this very chamber voted in favour of parliamentary delegations and junkets. the answer is not to go back, cap in hand, to national governments and to ask them to fleece taxpayers for even more money. the answer is to put your own house in order. where is the political will in the committee on budgets to do this? we do not even have pre-set failure criteria for eu-funded projects to know whether they have achieved what they promised. no-one takes responsibility. no staff are dismissed when taxpayers’ money has been wasted. ultimately, this place could remember that eu money really belongs to the taxpayers of each member state. some in this chamber, astonishingly, have used the misspending of eu money as an excuse to call for eu taxation. well we will soon know whether the european parliament has the guts to take the decisions necessary to bring this back under control. and is it not amazing how empty this chamber is today as we discuss such an important issue? where is the political will? we do not need more of the same. we do need some tough decisions. (applause)
mr president, i am fascinated by this. we have again been talking constantly about how we are going to make things better and there is constant talk of investment. we have got all these programmes – all these programmes! – but not enough money. well, that is the point. there is not enough money. you are all here talking about digging holes to get deeper. you are talking about trying to eat yourselves thin. the whole point is that the whole of the western world is in debt, massively bankrupted. hear some constructive commentary from my friend who mentioned it earlier: save this money, cut back on all these needless programmes, and stop trying to interfere in every part of everyone’s lives. how about saving that money and distributing it back to the countries you have taken it from? they could then give a really nice tax cut so that people could decide what to do with their own money. it is not yours to constantly make up ideas on how to spend it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, nouri al-maliki has presided over a government since becoming prime minister in 2006 and has exploited sectarian religious tensions in iraq to the benefit of the previously marginalised majority shi’ite population under the ba’athist regime. his regime, which has enjoyed a parliamentary majority since the 30 april elections, has been aided – unfortunately – and abetted by iran as part of its own wider regional hegemonic aspirations. as part of the al-maliki sectarian approach, sunni arab tribes in iraq’s west have faced discrimination and thousands of innocent civilians have been killed, particularly in anbar province, in the name of prosecuting a war against terrorist jihadi elements linked to isis. in so doing, baghdad has driven a desperate arab sunni community, including secular former supporters of saddam hussein, into an unholy alliance by teaming up with isis to fight government forces. meanwhile, the autonomous region of kurdistan has pursued its own destiny of democracy, secularism and prosperity. thus we now have three increasingly divergent entities that are jeopardising the territorial integrity of iraq and one that has offered fertile ground to jihadi terrorists spilling over from the conflict in neighbouring syria. isis, sadly, is now very well financed by gulf states and it has captured oilfields and looted money from the central bank and is fully militarily equipped, but it must now be stopped in its tracks. it has now declared an islamic caliphate and is imposing a barbaric form of extreme sharia law on the local populations and minorities’ heritage, including christians, and it is being joined by hundreds of eu, including united kingdom, citizens as fighters who are being radicalised and brutalised by their experience and pose a serious security threat when returning to their home countries. finding a solution to this cannot come too soon and we must now look to both international and regional forces that can offer some support. the brave kurdish peshmerga, i.e. the kurdish army, has been very successful in wrestling control of the kirkuk oilfields previously in the hands of isis and securing the kurdish region’s immediate borders and protecting the christian minorities of the nineveh plains. kurdistan has announced a referendum for independence unilaterally, which i think is very understandable and something that western powers after the first world war promised them in the treaty of sèvres in 1920 and may now soon become an inevitable reality. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – when the uk government and others took action to remove saddam hussein we were given confusing messages. first we were told that it was about weapons of mass destruction, then terrorism, and then that it was for the iraqi people. do you agree that this was badly thought out by the blair administration, and do you further agree that military intervention should never take place unless there is a clearly defined military objective?
blue-card answer. – i would agree that the blair government at the time was slightly economical with the truth and i would also agree that people such as myself who then supported the war might have taken a very different attitude if we had known then what we know now. but i agree that, frankly, the intervention in iraq, which was well-meaning, which was meant to be humanitarian, but which was also in search of weapons of mass destruction, has resulted, i am afraid, a decade later in chaos and much unnecessary carnage.
it is the first time in 15 years that the presidency has not said who is asking for this because we need to know who is asking for this.
mr president, i still believe, on a point of principle, that you are the first president who does not announce who is asking the question.
blue-card question. – thank you for having the courage to accept the question. i was very interested to hear what you had to say. do you agree with me that the best way to stop further problems of this nature is to make sure that both the eu and the member states no longer pursue interventionist foreign policies that damage countries in which they have no reason to be, and that the best thing is not to send our troops or people anywhere near these places unless there is a massively unforeseen reason for doing so?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, like many colleagues i feel considerable emotion in any discussion about iraq. i remember myself marching through the streets of glasgow protesting ‘not in my nameʼ in advance of the illegal invasion of iraq by the coalition of the willing. this motion takes some account of the other lifetimes cut short or blighted since that deep act of folly. according to the un there are just in central and northern iraq 1.2 million internally displaced persons and 1.5 million persons in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. the scale of the tragedy is as paralysing as the complexity itself. but in our role as a european union, as well as remembering how we got to where we are – and there should be no corner where we do not shine that light and no person we do not hold responsible for their actions – we have surely to try to attempt to plot a way out of the nightmare. in that effort i will limit myself to three points within this discussion: the role of the kurds, the role of iran and the role of saudi arabia and the gulf states, though i do endorse the rest of the resolution, which i think has a lot to commend it and i commend the the spirit of cross-party working across this house in its production. on the role of the kurds, in recital f we note the actions of the kurdish regional government in taking control, as mr tannock drew our attention to, of additional territory and we stopped just short of criticism of those actions. i think that is the right form of words. i think that is as realistic as it is pragmatic. in recital g we acknowledge the limited success that the kurds have had, and they do deserve credit for it in providing a safe haven and the burden that the many refugees they have cared for represents. but in point 11 of the resolution we remember our own principles. any constitutional changes must, and i quote: ‘respect and uphold an inclusive process in respect of the rights of the non-kurdish minorities living in the province’. this process will need to be supported by outside, by ourselves. on the role of iran and saudi arabia and the gulf states in points 8 and 9 we call – and i think this is quite crucial – on the international community, especially ourselves, to facilitate a regional dialogue on the problems facing the middle east and to include all significant parties. iraqʼs neighbours cannot be viewed as distinct from it; they are actors within the conflagration under way and must be part of its solution as well as part of its current problems. we cannot escape our role in how iraq came to be where it is. we can shoulder our burden in helping them plot a way out of the nightmare.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, iraq bears the hallmarks and scars of the misguided intervention of western nations. this has been nothing short of scandalous. with scant consideration for the obvious failings of the sykes-picot agreement nearly 100 years ago, we poked this hornet’s nest with a very sharp stick before embarking on regime change. most would agree that saddam’s treatment of the iraqi people, not least the marsh arabs and the kurds, underlined his warped approach to humanity. however, i believe that the second gulf war was fought on the premise of preparing for victory and not, as has now been proved, for life after that victory. yes, the senior ba’athist elements in iraq had to be removed, but what followed was the greatest foreign policy failing of modern times, namely the us-led decision to dismantle the iraqi army after the fall of saddam. at the stroke of a pen, this sunni-led army, with vast combat experience and access to an immense arsenal, was side-lined. in a short space of time, this led to the birth of the militias and the bloody insurgency. those militias have now become the islamic state of iraq and syria (isis) or their allies. the iraqi prime minister, whose role is to unify iraq, has achieved exactly the opposite. nouri al-maliki has shown himself to be completely unfit for purpose, underlining a terrible lack of character judgment on the part of western leaders. as iraq stands on the brink of splitting into three, al-maliki still clearly ignores the sunnis and the kurds, so the world holds its breath and prays. the british independent newspaper reports that around 1 500 british muslims have fought alongside isis. eu open borders mean that terrorists can move into europe and make their way to any part of the continent, potentially to wage terrorist campaigns. late last year the uk borders agency complained that eu rules banned them from collecting data on travellers within the european union, data which the intelligence services could have used to spot security risks. isis has looted usd 400 million from banks and financial institutions in northern iraq, making them the world’s richest terrorist group. this conflict could destabilise the whole region and, by extension, the world. the threat of isis must be a stark warning to us all. when decisions are to be made, they must be made with as much input as possible from across the middle east, via the united nations and by the authority of the united nations alone. britain mistakenly went to war in iraq, too, because of tony blair’s ‘dodgy dossier’, and the world has become a far more dangerous place as a result. one hundred and seventy-nine brave british service personnel made the ultimate sacrifice and many more have suffered both physical and mental scars which they will have to carry for the rest of their lives. i pay tribute to them now. neither i nor my party want to see another single drop of british blood spilled in either iraq or syria.
mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my own deep concern at the escalation of violence and the deterioration in the situation in iraq. according to the united nations ocha there are an estimated 1.2 million internally displaced people in central and northern iraq and we should place on record our welcome for the additional eur 7 million that the commission has allocated in humanitarian assistance. individual stories such as the brutal killing of 18-year-old mahmoud redha and his 44-year-old uncle zainal by islamic state fighters whilst on their way to work must bring home the level of violence faced by civilians on a daily basis. i join the president-in-office in calling for respect for human rights and for international humanitarian law by all sides. according to a report by human rights watch on 12 july, the iraqi security forces themselves appear to have unlawfully executed at least 255 prisoners over the past month in apparent revenge killings. these deaths must stop. europe itself cannot advocate our agreement to promote democracy, human rights and good governance in iraq and then fail to act when these objectives are put under grave threat, not least because of the real problems of foreign competence, as well as the threats posed by failed states within the region. much time can be spent debating the cause of this crisis but what is certain is that the sunni minority in iraq have felt unrepresented. i hope today’s appointment of salim al-jabouri as the new sunni speaker of the iraqi parliament will help to address the disenfranchisement felt by sunnis and to ease the tension. on the kurdish issue we cannot fail to also draw attention to the tension between baghdad and erbil which worsened on 11 july when kurdish ministers announced a boycott of the iraqi government after prime minister al-maliki made comments that kurdistan was harbouring terrorists and suspended flights to erbil. the conflict in northern iraq has led hundreds of thousands of civilians to flee to neighbouring kurdish areas administered by the kurdistan regional government, but recently the krg has restricted access to the areas under its control to non-kurdish iraqis fleeing the violence. within amnesty international and as someone who has consistently acknowledged kurdish political and civil rights, i call on the krg to allow access to those fleeing the conflict and to engage in dialogue with the iraqi government. moving forward, the iraqi people in their millions chose their own leader in al-maliki but the delay in forming a government has been a disaster and poses a real danger for the future of iraq. it is right that parliament now calls for the iraqi government to focus on unity and we urge all political leaders, especially the prime minister, to make sure that an inclusive government representing the diversity of the iraqi population is formed as a factor of urgency. finally, noting the clear link between the rise of is and the syrian civil war, i call for the regional dialogue to address the problems facing the middle east, including iran and saudi arabia, and in those discussions to make a reality the eu’s offer of assistance to help promote democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
madam president, i wonder first of all what point there is in parliamentarians here spending time debating this topic when there is nothing new on the table to be discussed. the fact is that parliamentarians here are going to have little effect on the situation and the commission is not even here to listen to what we have to say, and they, after all, have their hands on the money pot of humanitarian aid and all of those things. we are discussing the situation at a time when syria is still in flames, when hamas is once again flexing its terrorist muscles from gaza, terrorist anarchy reigns in libya and iran continues with its nuclear and missile programmes. of course it is very much in the interest of our democracies that peace, stability and security should reign in iraq. we have spent massive sums, including a billion from the european union, on iraq but a quarter of iraq’s population still lives on two dollars a day, or less. the water supply, sewerage systems, power systems are all broken in spite of enormous international spending. of course we do not want to see the re-emergence of another terrorist host state in the region and now we have this murderous isis army threatening baghdad itself. the last international conference on iraq was in 2003. do you not think it is time for the united nations to call a fresh conference in order to stabilise the political and economic situation in iraq before it spirals out of control, and can we have a close look at what our money has been spent on?
madam president, i just wish to urge great caution. i know the first instinct of this place is to interfere, to try to do things and often for the good, i understand that, but for many decades the situation in the middle east has been made worse and worse by western interference and involvement. my own country was brought into great shame by the dreadful lies of tony blair who brought our great country into disrepute with his evil lies. he has blood on his hands and he is one of the main reasons for the situation we find ourselves in now. please learn from this; learn that we cannot cure all the world’s ills. we cannot be the world’s police. yes, let us help; let us aid where we can. but please, in the interests of peace, do not always seek to interfere; always seek to put your hand in. sometimes it is better to respect national independence and let the people there make their own choices.
madam president, in the house of commons in london, the speaker of the house has no hesitation in interrupting the prime minister on a point of order or when he wants to call order in the house. i see no reason whatsoever why you should not interrupt the council when they are speaking when there is a blatant disregard for the dignity of this house, with people standing up making demonstrations of this nature, and it should be stopped. i think there is something that is particularly absurd about a group of communists complaining about occupation and military aggression in any context.
blue-card question. – i share mr boştinaru’s horror about the increase in levels of violence in israel and palestine but i am aware of the fact that during the negotiations over which resolution was going to be taken tomorrow he was not prepared to support a much stronger green resolution which specifically identified the failings of the quartet process and the failings of its envoy, tony blair. can i ask mr boştinaru whether he thinks the quartet process is working well and does he think that tony blair is a successful and effective peace envoy?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, gaza is once again at crisis point. millions worldwide are protesting against the slaughter taking place there. unfortunately, this joint resolution is a woeful attempt to address the reality of the current conflict. it neutralises the onslaught to avoid criticising israel. the ppe and s&d cosy consensus is disgraceful. over 200 palestinians are dead. 1 250 have been injured, 17 000 have sought refuge, 1 300 buildings – including hospitals, homes and schools – have been destroyed by israeli bombs, and it continues. this is an appalling carnage. attacks from both sides should stop. the causes of the conflict are ignored in this joint sham resolution. israel’s collective punishment of palestinians in the aftermath of the murder of three young israeli boys, which we all deplore, is not mentioned. the arrests of hundreds of palestinians, which contributed towards tension in the region, are not mentioned. israel’s violation of international humanitarian law, with the expansion of settlements and the construction of apartheid walls and roads are not mentioned. israel must end – and we must end – the impunity over such gross violations. israel must lift the blockade on gaza and stop the slaughter. this parliament must show it cares, and it would befit the mep who complained about us standing along with millions worldwide who are protesting to also show that he cares. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – ms anderson, you are a well-known apologist for hamas, but would you not accept that israel has the right to defend itself militarily against rocket attacks, even by military means if necessary? would you not also accept that hamas and islamic jihad are in fact committing international war crimes by hiding their weapons and launching their missiles from civilian areas including mosques, hospitals and schools?
blue-card answer. – the corollary of what you are saying must be that you would agree that when israel is attacking gaza, then gaza has a right to respond. let us be clear about this: israel violates international human rights and humanitarian law. the un charter has also been violated. also, it does not deal in the fourth geneva convention. there is a list – and it is endless – of points on which it has been criticised for its abuses and violation of international and humanitarian law. the millions of people who are standing in protest are concerned about what is happening in palestine and gaza. you should be more concerned about that. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i was in the negotiation yesterday, and i have to say that the ppe and the s&d did not even try to negotiate with those of us who wanted a stronger resolution. the cosy consensus in this parliament between the ppe and the s&d is not what the voters voted for. i think that it is absolutely disgraceful how those negotiations were conducted yesterday and i can tell you, as someone who was sitting there, that the views of the millions who are protesting were totally disregarded.
we can all stand here wringing our hands, and the fact is that resolutions from this parliament are not going to make any difference. probably the only area where the eu can have any influence is on the use of money and that is what i want to come back to as well, because some 5.6 billion has been spent by the eu on support to the palestinians over the last twenty years, and i want to know what leverage the european union has exerted over the palestinians to bring them to the conference table for that money. what political return has there been on this investment? we continue to pour money into the palestinian areas with little input on the political situation. the court of auditors found that there were people in gaza being paid from eu funds who were not even working! i do not want to reduce this whole tragic and serious matter to one of pounds, shillings and pence but it is an area that is very important and i hope the next commission will exercise proper control over eu money and make sure that it is well spent and does not help to fund terrorism.
blue-card question. – mrs sylikiotis, it is a classic tactic of terrorists to target civilians deliberately and to use civilians as human shields. do you not recognise that israel suffered five days of rocket attacks before she retaliated? that israel offered a cease-fire which hamas refused? that hamas instructed the people in gaza not to leave their houses and that during the time that israel suspended her attacks, during that time, fifty rocket attacks were launched from gaza against israel? do you not recognise this?
madam president, israel is a democratic state respectful of the rule of law, and of course it wants peace. but it cannot be subject to unremitting rocket attacks on its civilian areas without defending itself and its civilian population, and the right to retaliate militarily against hamas and islamic jihad is its right under international law in gaza – and it is they who are responsible for this tragedy. ms auken, this is compounded by their habit – a war crime – of using innocent palestinian civilians as human shields and hiding their weapons in mosques and schools. israel does everything humanly possible to minimise civilian casualties; in contrast, hamas has a total disregard for human life. even the palestinian authority’s president abbas has stated as much. now, the cruel rejection by hamas of the egyptian ceasefire is not only a tragedy for the gaza civilian population, who are already undergoing a humanitarian crisis, but it is also militarily suicidal for hamas, which, as we must remember in this house, is a terrorist organisation banned by the eu. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, that is more of a statement than a question, ms auken. mr goldstone in the end resiled from his own report, if you remember the facts correctly. i obviously cannot say categorically, i can only say what i have read and what i believe to be the case: that hamas has used civilian, protected areas to hide its weapons, including in hospitals, schools and mosques. that is what i believe to be the case.
madam president, hundreds of angry constituents have contacted me about the killing of innocent people in gaza. israel’s response has been utterly disproportionate: it is estimated that one israeli and more than 200 palestinians have lost their lives. according to the un office, 80% of these are civilians. moreover, more than 100 000 people have been asked to leave their homes. we should not accept that all this comes under israel’s right to self-defence. collective punishment must end if we do not want extremism to increase. we know from the history that it is largely the palestinians who have suffered and that israel has systematically eaten away at their land, breaking all international laws. both sides need to understand that there is no military solution. a two-state solution may become redundant if we do not call for an immediate ceasefire and redouble our efforts to ensure a lasting peace. the eu, the winner of a nobel peace prize, cannot remain a silent observer any longer. it prides itself on championing human rights and it must therefore lead this peace effort, providing the voice of sanity and hope. the three abrahamic faiths have a common saying: ‘wish for others what you wish for yourself.’ both sides need to practise this.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, before the arab spring my wife and i visited egypt, one of the cradles of civilisation. we had a wonderful time, the people seemed happy and content, and we were able to travel in safety. sadly the situation has changed for the worse. what is happening is denying ordinary egyptians the opportunity to earn a decent living. when the arab spring reached egypt, it reached the centre of the arab world. the calls for freedom of expression, in peaceful demonstrations in tahrir square, augured well for democracy. a military dictatorship has remorselessly crushed those hopes. in the process, it killed almost 72 people in a single day and it has placed thousands in detention. the role of the army is to defend the nation, not to kill their fellow citizens. just recently, 46 sentences of life imprisonment and 10 death sentences were handed down, and several more court cases are pending. one hundred and one supporters of a previous, democratically elected government were each sentenced to three years’ imprisonment. it is of the utmost importance to respect the will of the people. i know that this parliament does not always support democracy. i cite, for example, the danish referendum on the maastricht treaty, which was ignored, and the french and dutch rejections of the eu constitution, which were swept aside as the eu flagship project was pushed through. with all this in mind, i will be writing to the british foreign minister to urge him to express in the strongest terms our disgust at the treatment of innocent egyptians engaged in peaceful demonstrations. i hope that this will be the new minister’s first achievement. democratic principles, especially freedom of expression and the right to assemble in a peaceful manner, are basic human rights.
madam president, i gave a cautious welcome to the intervention that ended the disastrous morsi government, which had tried to turn egypt into a one-party state under sharia law and had brought the economy to its knees. i also gave a cautious welcome to the election of president al-sisi. but, as a friend of egypt and a long-standing defender of the large coptic christian community which was persecuted under morsi, i still strongly condemn the harsh and unjust sentences now handed down to the al jazeera journalists including my own london constituent sue turton. i call again on president al-sisi to exercise clemency and cancel her unjust 10-year jail sentence, which will make it impossible for her to work as a journalist in any african union country. so, mr al-sisi, please listen to our appeal.
author. - madam president, boko haram, in one of its most recent heinous attacks, led an assault on a village in borno state, killing 44 people and burning down three churches. they believe that western education is a sin and they hold in contempt the education of young women and the presence in nigeria of religious minorities – particularly the christians. boko haram is part of an axis of terrorism that spreads across the sahel, beginning with al-qaeda in the islamic maghreb (aqim)and including al-shabaab in somalia, and stretches across the middle east, where we see leading groups such as the islamic state of iraq and syria (isis), as far as afghanistan and pakistan, with the taliban. the un must now begin to seek a dedicated international policy – uniting the european union, the united states, russia, india and china, all of whom have an interest in fighting global terrorism – and must look at this phenomenon in its entire global context, rather than pursuing the current piecemeal approach. in countries like nigeria, where 70% of the population is living on little more than a dollar an day, there is fertile ground for small groups of extremists exploiting individuals in desperate search of work, food and stability. with a weak state, boasting only inadequate security forces, and with corruption in nigeria endemic, boko haram is flourishing. it is dangerously destabilising a fragile country and dividing the muslim majority of the north from the christian majority of the south. the response of the government so far is woefully inadequate.
author. - madam president, earlier this year the world was absolutely shocked by the abductions and the violence in chibok and we saw the strong reaction from civil society in nigeria, from people who do support education for boys and girls – for the attacks of boko haram are not only on girls – people who want change in nigeria, people who want action against boko haram, who want accountability from their government and the conviction of those responsible for atrocities. obviously we express our sympathy for the friends and the families, not only of the girls from chibok, but of all of those of different faiths who have been abducted, injured and murdered over the years by the growing violence of boko haram and the often violent state pursuit which has all too often substituted indiscriminate force for targeted action. nigeria recently became the biggest economy in africa and we have heard about the great inequality within regions and between north and south. there is an enormous distrust of the government. where you have that distrust you are not going to get information and people do not feel protected. a major complaint of civil society has been about the apparent absence of the government response. so we would support the action that has been taken by a number of governments in helping on chibok, but we would hope to see a more concentrated response from the government in nigeria in coordination with governments elsewhere.
author. - madam president, it is almost one hundred days since these girls disappeared and i think we should pledge today that we will keep on campaigning until the girls are released and not let this issue go off the headlines. i agree with jean lambert: we need to work together; we need to urge the nigerian government to do everything possible to make that happen. but in the long term we need to do more. in the mdgs we pledged that every child should receive an education but as 2015 approaches there are thousands of schools closed in nigeria because of terrorist attacks. the international community is now looking at what should replace the mdgs and it is clear that safe schools need to be part of what we are talking about. i want to praise the work of former british prime minister gordon brown and his wife sarah who have worked to set up an initiative spearheading safe schools and are putting this on the top of the international agendas on international development. yesterday i met unicef which reminded us that later this year we will mark 25 years since the signing of the un convention on the rights of the child. we must do everything we can here to make sure that every child has their rights respected.
madam president. i am glad to take part in this debate today and to see a focus on those persons who suffer persecution because of their faith. the case of the capture of the young girls in nigeria is extremely troubling. belatedly it has brought international focus on the situation in northern nigeria where thousands of christians and those of faith have been slaughtered by boko haram. in the last legislature, along with my colleague mr belder, i hosted christians from northern nigeria in the parliament. one man told his story. he had been asleep when boko haram came to his home. they brought him out, and asked him to renounce his faith or be shot. when he refused he was shot in the face. when they left he asked his wife to go to the other christian men in the village to get help to take him to hospital. she came back to tell him that he was the only one who had survived. these are the stories of thousands across northern nigeria: men, women, families, targeted because of their faith. it is wrong; let this parliament have the courage to call it as it really is – the persecution of those of faith.
mr president, the ecr group welcomes the election and decisive victory of president poroshenko, who by adopting a progressive military approach has had some success recently, with the liberation of sloviansk, and who has pledged to broker a ceasefire agreement on the essential condition that this is fully observed by both sides and all hostages are freed. however, should russia not cease its military support for rebel groups operating in eastern ukraine and destabilising the entire country the eu must not hesitate to progress to sectoral economic sanctions against moscow. indeed, the eu must take the lead in advocating a peaceful political solution to the ukrainian crisis that brings an end to the militant-driven violence, abductions, executions and political intimidation that have hitherto characterised this tragic conflict. such a solution must crucially respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine, including crimea, which russia so gracefully annexed on the basis of a pack of lies. it is clear that the nomination of federica mogherini as high rep is causing concerns in member states like poland and the three baltic states because of perceived pro-russia bias from the rome government. so that government should now, under the italian presidency, instead use this platform to promote regional stability following the recent successful conclusion of association agreements and eu ftas with ukraine, moldova and georgia, thereby seeking instead to respect the european aspirations of these sovereign countries. prime minister renzi should not for purely commercial reasons seek to appease russia, which under putin is seeking to re-establish through the eurasian economic union an authoritarian version of the old soviet union and to introduce revanchist and irredentist claims which should have no place in the modern world.
mr president, if we were to accept this resolution, which is clearly aimed at warmongering politicians, this would also have a chilling effect on civilised nations taking action to protect peace and act on crimes against humanity. by the way this resolution has been drafted, senior military personnel who took careful advice before iraq 2 would possibly face prosecution. hence, we voted against, regrettably letting the politicians off the hook.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on ukraine because the situation continues to develop and there has not been an end to the tension between the different sides. this resolution was important in publishing the parliament’s joint position on this issue and that members continue to monitor the situation.
mr president, this amendment was proposed by the ecr group and supported by the british conservative party. it accepted the principle that the eu should have free movement of workers but it supported only qualified free movement. this shows how half-hearted the british conservative party is. this is qualified euroscepticism. mass open-door immigration has resulted in lower wage and employment levels in the uk and throughout europe. we abstained because we believe that nation states should have exclusive control of their borders. there should not be qualified free movement of workers; there should be controlled migration, open to the whole world, using a points-based system and managed by the nation states, not the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because youth employment remains the single biggest challenge for the european parliament in this new mandate. my socialist colleagues and i are seeking to change the austerity agenda of the centre-right to the growth-focused agenda of the socialists. europe cannot afford to have another lost generation and we must get all of our young people back to good quality employment.
in writing. - conservative meps fully support initiatives designed to help young people, whatever their circumstances, enter the labour market. the ecr resolution highlighted unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, as the biggest social challenge facing europe. conservative meps believe that at the national level, it is essential to give education and training systems greater relevance to labour market needs. blanket eu laws or initiatives are impractical and inefficient. actions to tackle youth unemployment are better if they are delivered by national governments. we cannot support calls for new legally binding instruments at eu level, which add little or no value in terms of getting young people into employment. it is not the role of the european parliament to instruct member states on how to organise their social security systems. while we understand the potential for migration to help some young people find work, and while we support the principle of free movement of workers in the eu – this must be qualified. free movement should be about work, where individuals can follow opportunities and contribute to the host economy rather than moving to take advantage of welfare regimes in other member states. for these reasons we cannot support the joint motion for resolution.
in writing. - the eplp did not support amendment 8 to paragraph 45, because it is tautologous and misleading. in seeking to stress that labour mobility ‘must be qualified’, the amendment disingenuously implies that labour mobility in the eu is currently not qualified. this is false. citizens are free to move within the union to work, but do not have an unqualified right to move and live anywhere within the union. that is a myth, disingenuously promoted by this amendment.
in writing. - we feel that whilst certain british politicians may have a case to answer in court for the war in iraq, we are concerned that the wording of this resolution could lead to brave british service men and women being prosecuted as well. our party could never agree to anything that could open the door for attacks and prosecutions of our service men and women.
in writing. - we feel that whilst certain british politicians may have a case to answer in court for the war in iraq, we are concerned that the wording of this resolution could lead to brave british service men and women being prosecuted as well. our party could never agree to anything that could open the door for attacks and prosecutions of our service men and women.
in writing. - we feel that whilst certain british politicians may have a case to answer in court for the war in iraq, we are concerned that the wording of this resolution could lead to brave british service men and women from being prosecuted as well. our party could never agree to anything that could open the door for attacks on and prosecutions of our service men and women.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. the deterioration of the situation in iraq is very worrying. eu governments and others must continue to provide the iraqi government with the appropriate support and we cannot let the country slide into domestic conflict.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the current escalation of violence between israel and palestine. that so many young people on both sides have been involved in this latest crisis, both at the start of the crisis and in the ongoing exchange, is tragic. the core roots of this crisis will not be solved easily, but i welcomed today’s five-hour agreed break from fire and that a tentative ceasefire has been agreed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important that, if possible, the eu comes to a common agreement on these kampala amendments to the rome agreement. if ratified these amendments will be an important development in international law and will allow yet another legal deterrent to states to commit human rights abuses.
madam president, of course we are all concerned about the impact on european farmers, i no less than anyone else. even those member states which are not heavily affected directly will be affected in time by market impacts such as falling prices. the ramifications of these political sanctions are very wide-reaching. we have been using the language of emergency and crisis, all of which implies a reaction to the unexpected. i would like to ask the commissioner why the impact on farmers seems to have been so badly thought through. is it a surprise that russia has retaliated? no, of course not. of course they would hit back in the area of fresh and perishable produce for maximum short-term impact. we hear about further sanctions being imposed by brussels, so my question is: ‘what is the plan?’ even if the eur 430 million crisis reserve is mobilised it is not going to last long: we have already earmarked eur 155 million in less than a month. clearly, just calling for more and more financial support is not the answer: it cannot be, because that would simply be a bottomless pit. i would like to know from you, commissioner, what the commission’s medium-term and long-term plans are. are you discussing this as a commission? i know you are in a state of flux but are you actually looking clearly at the implications of foreign policy?
madam president, the scottish whisky exports to russia do not seem, on the face of it, very much at gbp 25 million. however, another gbp 200 million worth of scottish whisky gets to russia via germany, latvia and estonia. it is a direct carousel. if there is any compensation going begging, commissioner, it ought to go to the producers of scottish whisky in scotland and not to those who simply trade it on. as you know, the uk is a very substantial net contributor to the common agricultural policy, and some of that money coming back to scotland would be very useful. scotland is an important part of the united kingdom. there are 143 million people living in russia. they are not going to stop eating. food originally produced in the european union will find its way there somehow. i urge the commission not to obstruct these rather unofficial processes.
madam president, in northern ireland the greatest impact of the russian import ban is on the dairy sector. i am therefore calling on the commission to review the prices set for intervention and to reintroduce export refunds as a priority. introducing these measures would protect the industry and stabilise markets across the eu. i would also call on the commission to ensure that these safety-net tools and compensation are delivered quickly, effectively and fairly, and not just to member states which border russia. a final word for the commissioner: please do not give in to those member states which have broken the rules and over-produced milk which they will be releasing into a market which is already experiencing a downward spiral in prices, thereby penalising farmers like those in northern ireland who have kept to the rules.
mr president, europe needs to focus more of its resources on advanced manufacturing and engineering. making things has become terribly unfashionable but it is actually what we are good at in this part of the world. by ‘this part of the world’ i mean europe and particularly my constituency of the west midlands. firms like jaguar land rover, hadley industries and east end foods are exporting all over the world and creating thousands of jobs as they do so, but they are desperate to fill those jobs with more and better science, technology, engineering and maths (stem) graduates. we have got to be more active on skills if we are serious about growth. that is why the european semester and the youth guarantee must prioritise training whatever the other pressures. our young people need sustainable, quality jobs and we need to give them the tools.
mr president, on 16 august 2014, 35 migrants crammed themselves into containers and docked themselves at tilbury in my constituency. sadly one died and, as tragic as this episode is, they have since tried to claim asylum. i think it would be wrong, and here is why. we are already known across europe as ‘soft-touch britain’, and this would only add to the united kingdom being a soft touch. if we give asylum here, many more will put themselves in harm’s way in containers to come to the united kingdom. we have proper processes in place to claim asylum in the uk and to migrate to the uk, and this is unfair to the wider community and to genuine migrants and asylum seekers. next may, the british people and my constituents will be able to judge soft-touch britain. they will be able to vote for ukip, a party that rejects this union and that will get our borders and our country back.
mr president, the commission’s consultation on water closes next week so today, as a new member, i am pleased to support the work done by everyone in this parliament and beyond on the right to water campaign. partnerships with the private sector for expertise, innovation and research can be beneficial, but exploitation of water resources for commercial profit is not. in my city of london we are still facing first-hand, through massive water bill rises, the shocking consequences of privatisation. we have a poorly-regulated monopoly private provider of water which last year paid well over eur 100 million in dividends and interest payments to shareholders, and in the countries hardest hit by recession our own institutions in the eu have been attempting to insist on water privatisation despite international evidence against it. it is time for the commission to be bold. we want no more excuses about the lack of legal base or application of principles of neutrality. eu-wide measures to promote democratic public control of water are the only answer.
mr president, i wanted to draw attention to the horrific floods now hitting india and pakistan, and not least the divided state of kashmir, where we have seen hundreds of deaths, the displacement of thousands of people, and a huge loss of livelihood. these floods are likely to continue, and we are being told that they are the worst floods to hit kashmir in decades. we are all aware of the fact that kashmir is a flashpoint area, and we have seen recent incidents along the line of control – even during this current emergency. however, i think that we should be welcoming the mutual offers of assistance between the governments of india and pakistan during these floods. i really want to urge the european union to actively support engagement between those two governments over the questions of improved water management and disaster preparedness in that area. this is a real opportunity to bring governments together to actually work for the benefit of their people, rather than pursuing this ongoing conflict.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, having just returned yesterday from kiev, i feel that the need for supporting ukraine against the aggression it is facing from russia is clearer than ever. it is clear also to my group, the ecr, that in response to ukraine’s ambitions to move in a westward, democratic, euro-atlantic direction, russia is revisiting its imperial past – refusing to accept that its large neighbour in the 21st century is an independent sovereign nation that has the right to take charge of its own destiny. the refusal of russia to accept this and to work within this internationally accepted legal paradigm should concern us all as democrats. this is not a case of an isolated conflict in a faraway land, but rather it is part of a wider struggle in which democratic nations on our own doorstep are fighting off the revanchist and irredentist ideals of a putin-led authoritarian and revisionist regime that boasts of a nuclear arsenal. the west has already stood by as countries such as georgia, armenia and moldova have suffered as a result of these ideals. we must not allow ukraine to become another precedent. it is for this reason that member states within the eu and nato should begin to take proactive, rather than reactive, steps in this conflict, sending a message to president putin that there is hard-power substance behind our rhetoric. commentators from across the world have noted now the necessity for russia of militarily acquiring a land corridor to the crimea. in this regard we should also note the presence of 50 000 russian troops at the ready on the borders. it has been suggested that one member state of nato is already arming the ukrainian army in anticipation of this further act of aggression. so today i call on other member states to do the same and allow ukraine to acquire the means to defend itself. we are making the right move today in this house by simultaneously voting to ratify the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) with ukraine’s verkhovna rada. europe, including, i have to say, my own country, has for too long relied on the dominance of russian energy and finance. we must now look to diversify away from these dependencies and to have a coordinated eu plan for external energy security, just as we have successfully united the entire european union in the support of tough economic sanctions against russia for its blatant acts of aggression.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, amongst the long list of foreign policy failures and contradictions in the last few years, including of course the bombing of libya and the desire to arm the rebels in syria, has been the unnecessary provocation of vladimir putin. this eu empire, ever seeking to expand, stated its territorial claim on the ukraine some years ago. just to make that worse, some nato members said they would like the ukraine to join nato. we directly encouraged the uprising in the ukraine that led to the toppling of president yanukovych; that led in turn to vladimir putin reacting; and the moral of the story is: if you poke the russian bear with a stick, do not be surprised when he reacts. now just to continue with that, today we are rushing through, at undue speed, an association agreement with the ukraine, and as we speak there are nato soldiers engaged in military exercises in the ukraine. have we taken leave of our senses? do we actually want to have a war with putin? because if we do, we are certainly going about it the right way. perhaps we ought to recognise that the west now faces the biggest threat and crisis to our way of life that we have seen for over 70 years. the recent beheadings of the british and american hostages graphically illustrates the problem, and we have our citizens from our own countries engaged in that struggle too. in the war against islamic extremism, vladimir putin, whatever we may think of him as a human being, is actually on our side. i suggest we grow up. i suggest we recognise the real threat facing all of our countries, communities and societies, stop playing war games in the ukraine and start to prepare a plan to help countries like syria, iraq, kenya, and indeed nigeria, to try and help them to deal with the real threat that faces us. let us not go on provoking putin, whether we like him or not. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the point i was making is that there should be a huge degree of guilt in this house about what provoked all of this in the first place. we saw western ukrainians waving european flags, rioting, setting fire to things and effectively staging a coup d’état which brought down the ukrainian president, leading to this instability. yes, you are the guilty people and you refuse to accept it.
mr president, i start by saying to the commissioner that in diplomacy sometimes one has to take quick decisions. however, when there are those who seek to divide us, to come to that decision on friday without consultation was one that clearly has caused consternation in this house. i am sure you will have heard that. like several of my colleagues, i express the wish in this debate for the peace talks to continue; for russian troops to be withdrawn, and for the decisions that have been taken in the council about the sanctions to be supported. but i do not apologise for using my speech as a member of the european parliament to say how proud i and we were to vote simultaneously with the verkhovna rada, the ukrainian parliament, to ratify the eu-ukraine association agreement. it is an act of huge symbolism which holds out the hand of friendship to the people of ukraine when there are attempts to divide us. it is a sign of our absolute unity. it is the democratic mark of the right of sovereign countries and of their peoples to decide their own futures. to those on the fringes of this house who say they admire putin and who in this debate seek to oppose the agreement, it shows our ukrainian friends that we have extremists in the european union too. perhaps they and all of us when we come to vote will remember the thousand people who gave their lives in the euromaidan so that this association agreement could come forward.
mr president, what we have heard today over and over again is talk about sovereignty, independence and democracy, the legitimacy of borders and people having their own freedom. and yet what we are actually talking about is people being freed from russian tyranny in order to be moved over to the rules of the eu. freedom is not to choose who rules you, whose sets of laws you have: freedom is to make your own laws. in this debate that we have had today, person after person has tried to ask questions to properly debate this issue, and due to time and the way this place works we have not even been able to do that properly. there is no way that this place can properly discuss individual freedoms and the rights of peoples – it is not appropriate, it is not fit for purpose to do this. so i say that we need to think again about these very important issues. this place is not appropriate for these things.
rapporteur. - mr president, mr saryusz-wolski has spoken with some passion and a lot of knowledge about the position in ukraine, as have many colleagues in the foreign affairs debate. it falls to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs – where the decision was split – to take responsibility for article 17, the legal migration and neighbourhood aspects of this association agreement, which are nevertheless very important aspects. we were very conscious of this and take very seriously our responsibility to have a vote in parallel with the kiev parliament. although our responsibilities are less than those of the committee on foreign affairs, the seriousness with which our committee voted yesterday, swiftly, in a vote without debate – and i understand that many of our members were concerned about the lack of debate in committee – nevertheless shows they were acutely aware that this parallel symbolic vote, as mr saryusz-wolski described it, was an extremely important signal to the people of ukraine. i want to specifically say why that is. in the last parliamentary term i was also one of the rapporteurs responsible for neighbourhood policy. we have heard in the last debate on foreign affairs why neighbourhood policy must be consistent. despite all the sufferings of the ukrainian people that we have heard of, we need to be consistent in our neighbourhood policy. neighbourhood policy is an extremely important indicator that we will maintain our undertakings to the ukrainian people and we will not deviate from that. so the civil liberties committee will maintain its policy and our vote yesterday, by some majority, was the signal of that. i do not want to take up the time of the plenary too much because we want that vote to coincide at 12.00, but i would just like to say that we will take our steps seriously under article 17 and i will conclude my remarks there.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the timing of this agreement is despicable. we have an intermittent ceasefire coming and going in eastern ukraine and this procedure is being rushed through here so that the european and ukrainian parliaments can send a joint symbolic signal towards russia. usual procedures for amendments have been strictly limited in terms of time for submission, and they were only in english. parliamentary procedures have not been adhered to. the committee on international trade was unable to submit an official position on the trade aspects of this agreement. so much for democracy. the consideration of this agreement has been rushed through in the name of political posturing and risks prolonging and possibly even intensifying both the conflict in eastern ukraine and tensions with russia. you people simply do not understand the meaning of the word diplomacy. quite frankly, you are trying to extinguish a bonfire that you lit, with gasoline.
mr president, through this agreement we are offering ukraine the greatest tool the eu has at its disposal: access to our single market in all senses. such an agreement will not only improve our ties with our eastern neighbours, it will also provide ukraine with the impetus to make reforms: reforms to improve transparency, tackle corruption and improve the economy. reforms will not happen overnight and they will not happen without pain but in the long run ukraine will be able to take her rightful place as a western country, with open and stable markets, capable of standing on her own two feet. in europe this association agreement means not only that we gain the partnership of a long-standing and, one might say, long-suffering friend but also that we will gain a stable marketplace in which our producers and our businesses can fully engage. of course, in order to open our markets to each other we must also ensure that some fundamental norms and standards are put in place. that is what this agreement seeks to do, and especially to ensure that basic rights are maintained for all workers coming to and from ukraine. today marks a new chapter in eu-ukraine relations, a process that will be to our mutual benefit, and no one should get in the way of that.
mr president, an association agreement is a half-way house between a trade agreement and eu membership. this is ukraine’s second attempt at an association agreement. the first attempt led to the overthrow of the democratically elected pro-russian president and the current civil war which we have now in the ukraine. with putin uttering his rhetoric, where is this going to end? the ukraine is a buffer zone between nato and russia; the eu has taken away this buffer zone, potentially putting nato tanks on the border with russia. what you are doing today is throwing petrol onto the bonfire which the eu lit. putin is not the biggest threat to our civilisation. the biggest threat is muslim extremists. this is for political reasons, and poking the russian bear is very dangerous. for this reason ukip voted against this agreement.
mr president, i voted in favour of the saryusz-wolski report because i believe that strengthening the relationship between the eu and ukraine at this crucial juncture is critical. ukraine is a close neighbour whose security, stability and prosperity are increasingly affecting the eu, as recent events have demonstrated. i firmly believe that it is the interests of citizens from both sides that we make this strong commitment to supporting ukraine in its effort to implement deep-rooted and sustainable economic and political reform while cooperating closely on security across the region. i also believe that this agreement is instrumental in fostering a political solution to the crisis in ukraine which respects the country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. commissioner de gucht has now announced that the entry into force of the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) between the eu and ukraine, a key part of this association agreement, will be delayed in an effort to avoid further escalation of the tensions with russia. i appreciate that such a step might be necessary to contribute to de-escalation of this conflict, however, i would also like to underscore the fact that the decision by ukraine to enter into this agreement with the eu is a sovereign one and we should not lose sight of the vital imperative of defending firmly ukraine’s right to make such sovereign choices.
in writing. – i very much welcome the principles that underlie this association agreement – namely support for the rule of law and the protection of ukrainian sovereignty. and upon these principles it is right that the eu engages with ukraine to support its political reforms, to encourage free trade, and to cooperate on matters of security and defence that are currently very salient given the context of actions by russia in the east of the country. indeed, at a time when the russian import ban continues to have ramifications for the dairy sector in my constituency, northern ireland, i also share the view that continued political discussions are vital in seeking de-escalation in tensions between the two countries. we must accept, however, that the first step in this process must be the withdrawal of russian forces and resources from separatist militants – to establish a secure border and international monitoring.
in writing. – i have chosen to vote in favour of the report on the eu-ukraine association agreement, with the exception of the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed as workers in the territory of the other party. the agreement will establish closer ties in areas such as workers’ rights, visa liberalisation, justice and business regulations. it also puts a strong emphasis on the values and principles of: democracy and the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, good governance, the market economy and sustainable development.
in writing. – i welcomed and supported the simultaneous ratification with the ukrainian parliament of the eu-ukraine association agreement. it opens up new possibilities for co-operation between the eu and ukraine, and allows the eu to support ukraine with its ambitious political and economic reform efforts. it also sends a clear signal of solidarity with the ukrainian people and of support for its desire for a democratic and prosperous future, within a democratic country.
in writing. - i support the implementation of the eu - ukraine association agreement, first of a new generation of agreements with eastern countries and aiming at the acceleration of the deepening of political and economic relations between ukraine and the eu. i support the desire to strengthen and widen relations in an ambitious way.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because the current regulation for relations between the european union and ukraine needed to be updated. this vote was on the eu-ukraine association agreement (aa), which is the first of a new generation of association agreements with eastern partnership countries. the association agreement aims to accelerate the deepening of political and economic relations between ukraine and the eu, which i welcome if there is popular support for this by the people of both countries.
in writing. – i welcome today’s vote on the ratification of the eu-ukraine association agreement. this vote is a clear sign of solidarity with the ukrainian people and of support for their desire for a democratic and prosperous future, within a democratic state.
in writing. – today i voted in favour of the eu/euratom/ukraine association agreement: treatment of third country nationals legally employed as workers in the territory of the other party. i welcome the decision of the european parliament to give its consent to this important agreement which opens up new possibilities for co-operation between the eu and ukraine. this is the first of a new generation of association agreements with eastern partnership countries. such agreements allow the eu to support ukraine in its ambitious political and economic reforms.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution in recognition of the shared values that both the european union and ukraine share, namely democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and respect for the rule of law. in addition to these shared values i voted in favour of this resolution to recognise the clear desire shown by the people of ukraine for a closer and stronger relationship with the european union.
, on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, horizon 2020 is one of the areas of the eu budget which can have a real impact in boosting economic growth. it must be a priority to ensure that it is financed effectively in order to achieve its full potential. the council and the commission have reiterated on numerous occasions their desire for the eu budget to promote growth and jobs. if they are to live up to this commitment they must do their utmost to resolve any issues around financing horizon 2020. i note that the council is proposing quite a significant cut of nearly eur 1 billion – i.e. 11% – to payment appropriations for the eu research programme. in contrast, cuts to the cohesion payments amount to just 0.4% and those to agriculture 0.1%. eu research has been disproportionately hit by the council’s proposals. i understand that the package of cuts is brought about partly by tighter budgetary controls put in place by member states that are net contributors. i approve of this and i think it is inappropriate for the commission to blame the member states for it. the fact that we have to make these cuts is the fault of the whole commission being unable to manage its budgets effectively. the commission has been too liberal with commitments without tracking available payments. this has been going on for years and is getting worse. the result of this poor management is that crucial research funding is suffering and this is because of bad budgetary practice in other areas such as structural funds. so, rather than coming to this chamber and asking the taxpayer for ever more money, i would ask the commission to come here and explain how it is going to improve its systems to ensure that horizon 2020 does not suffer. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, it is interesting to see that we are talking about cutting down budgets – and there are some that are more important than others – but surely the colleague will agree with me that, if you wanted to buy a new car – a beautiful jaguar which is produced in my constituency – he could look at some of the models, and some of them are more expensive, but he could buy the brand new xe, which is a superb car, more affordable but still valuable and still good value for money. maybe this is what the european union needs to learn. would you agree with me: time to look for more value for money?
blue-card answer. – well, i agree with my colleague. we should look to value for money, and the very first place we should cut is this travelling circus to strasbourg. we could save eur 100 million each and every year by having a single seat, and we could raise eur 500 million by selling these buildings. then you could afford to buy a great many excellent jaguars made in his constituency.
blue-card question. – does my colleague not appreciate the general distrust of this institution throughout the united kingdom and indeed in other member states? if i was running a small business as a limited company, i would have to make an annual return. now the accounts for this place have not been properly audited for 18 years. does my colleague accept that this is just one sincere criterion for distrust of this organisation? there will be better value version for british students outside of this travesty when the british government is in a situation where she can spend funds on areas in which she succeeds.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, as the proverb goes, a tyrannical king once asked a wise man, ‘what shall i do for the betterment of our people?’ the wise man replied, ‘the best thing you could do for your people is to remain in bed until noon so that for this brief period you shall not afflict mankind’. horizon 2020 focuses on research to create growth and jobs, but when you are spending more than you earn you have got to cut something. we need research, even if i prefer that to come through the member states rather than from the eu. but how about starting with eu overregulation? the european union should operate according to the principle of subsidiarity. everything that could be dealt with at a local level should be dealt with at a local level. last week i visited a charity, the blyth resource initiative centre, in my constituency. it helps unemployed people back to work. it works with local businesses, provides training and is hamstrung by regulations when it wants to expand. in redcar, in my constituency, i visited a food bank where even some people who are in employment are now finding need of food parcels and where people who used to run successful businesses now find themselves in similar need. when will this place realise that what business needs is not more eu regulations, but for regulators to follow the lead of the unjust king and stay in bed until midday and give business the chance to recover? that is where the cuts should take place. it is very simple. this place pays lip service to the concept of subsidiarity but throws the principle out every day of the week, without batting an eyelid, while the payments problem represents all of the reasons why the eu does not work, cannot work and will not work.
madam president, i have enjoyed this debate. i have enjoyed watching it, as i always do when other members speak about how they have not got enough money for all the projects that they are trying to do. as someone from the uk, which is a net contributor to this, i would ask you all to consider, when you think about taking more money from us, how people in my country are having to use food banks, how the nhs is struggling, and how people are being thrown out of their council homes. everybody in the uk has had to tighten their belts. food banks in the united kingdom in the 21st century! this is madness, so i ask you: when you make your decisions about your spending programmes and you look for more money, think about the people whose pockets are being picked to fund all this – the people in the united kingdom who are struggling just like everyone else. please tighten your belts.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the digital economy is no longer a subset of economic activity. today every market has digital elements, and europe’s single market must not be left behind. unlocking the opportunities of the digital world is crucial to delivering jobs and growth. in the g20, the internet economy is set to grow by eight per cent every year for the next five years. it is racing ahead of traditional sectors. but what do we mean by the digital single market, and what work do we need to do to achieve it? in e-commerce alone we could save our consumers eur 60 billion a year as a result of lower prices and eur 95 billion as a result of having more choices, but there is a lot of work for us to do. we need to reduce burdens on establishing new businesses, cut costs in our payment and settlement systems, and remove barriers which prevent the physical delivery of goods ordered online. consumer confidence is vital. buyers and sellers need to be sure that their rights and protections are no less than those afforded them in their traditional markets. then there is fraud prevention, licences, copyright, logistics – issues which all need to be addressed. we must work with businesses and consumers to make sure that all legislation across the board is properly evaluated, impact-assessed and then future-proofed for the digital age. the competition issues are also complex. our laws must prevent abuse by market dominators, but must also strike the right balance between traditional operators and over-the-top players and ensure that the new peer-to-peer models are not blocked by incumbents. but it is not just about e-commerce. if we want to get the best out of e-government, e-health and e-procurement, we need ict systems which talk to each other. this is why finding solutions on interoperability is also on this parliament’s agenda. data are another priority, and remember that big data bring big benefits, not only economically, but to society in sectors like personalised medicines and health. yes, we do need a data protection package but it needs to be one that is not only pro-individuals, but also pro-business and pro-innovation. i support a transparent approach to data, respecting privacy, but also staying open. to be able to share data, we also need to have confidence that they will not be misused, hence the work that some of our colleagues are doing on network security. here member states need to be able to cooperate in the fight against cybercrime. however, we must not stop individual countries from being able to take really rapid action to protect critical services. last, but by no means least, there is the issue of inclusion. as we race to embrace a digital world, we must not leave parts of our communities – like rural communities – behind. infrastructure is essential, both to reach our remotest areas, and to provide the deep coverage we need in cities. different member states are finding different solutions to deliver this digital access and to improve digital skills. there is no ‘one size fits all’, but we can do more to share best practices. parliament colleagues, our council and national leaders and our new commissioners, we need to work together to get the right priorities and set them now. the digital world can bring us great benefits and we need to grasp them, because if we get this wrong, we will not get the chance again, and we will all live to regret it.
mr president, my party is in favour of free trade and free markets, but we have serious reservations about the digital single market. it will be a managed market, not a free market; it will be geographically restricted; it will be an over-regulated market which is inimical to growth, to employment and to innovation. rather than seeing the dead hand of the commission setting the rules, we would rather see nations, states and industry working together to achieve interoperability and mutual recognition. we would rather see organic convergence of regulatory systems than centrally imposed solutions. we are struck by the irony of the commission’s claim that its plans will create thousands of new jobs, because our experience is that eu rules usually have the opposite effect. nor are we convinced that a digital single market will enable europe to become a leader in the creative industries, as the commission claims. that depends on creating content that paying customers wish to buy, not on delivery mechanisms. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the short answer to your question is ‘no’. what we find is that, in the it sector, large companies come and go. the history of the it sector is very clear in that respect and there are opportunities for both large companies and small companies. we seem to have forgotten that europe exists as part of a wider world. yes, we can buy stuff from other european member states on the internet but we can also buy stuff from the other side of the world if we choose to – and, frankly, setting up our own controls and our little own barriers in europe is simply ignoring the direction in which the world as a whole is going.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner barnier for his résumé of the work on the digital single market through the last legislature, which of course we all found very interesting. we all know that the eu is not yet a properly functioning single market; it is still divided by national borders; it is still not properly functioning. it is still not attractive to digital start-up companies because it cannot offer seamless access to the market. we have heard much about the achievements but, and i congratulate the commissioner for being so straightforward, we have also heard that there is a clear acknowledgement that we have failed to achieve some of our targets and that we will continue to set ourselves those targets and aims for the future. i would like to draw colleagues’ attention to the joint paper on priorities put together by 11 member states, including the uk and germany, because i think that to some extent it does the job of setting out how we should go forward. there is a clear list of priorities for realising a vision for completing this single market. i would like to focus my remarks on simply one of these areas. as with all of our work here in the european parliament, we talk about regulation and legislation and there are always two dimensions. there is the technical work that we do, there are the impact assessments – there is all of that – and then there are the tangible benefits to consumers: the things that our constituents really want to hear about. so i make no apology for mentioning yet again the issue of ensuring the right digital infrastructure. connecting every citizen is still a work in progress, both in terms of broadband speeds and mobile connectivity, particularly data services. in my own region of five million people, one quarter still do not have access to either of these benefits and when i talk to my citizens, to my constituents, and i talk about all of the good work that we are doing here, i am often met with cynical laughter from part of the room because they do not have that basic connectivity to begin with. so let us forge ahead on all of the fronts that people have talked about, i support them all. but also let us make sure that we speed up the basic building blocks that the digital economy is built on and not leave that basic infrastructure behind.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, although the climate change summit next week in new york is not part of the unfccc negotiations – not part of the process that we have all got so used to – it is an important gathering which, arguably, may be actually more important than these set-piece cop events, which are often seen by the public as very inflexible, rather frenzied and a little unintelligible. i think ban ki-moon’s initiative in new york has the opportunity to engage the imagination of the public in a much more meaningful way. i look forward to that, because i think it could have real political influence. of course, all the parties present in new york are already committed to agreeing a new global and legally-binding deal by cop 21 in paris. in the ecr, we recognise that developed countries need to take a leading role in the reduction of emissions, but we have always questioned the sense of forging too far ahead too quickly with unilateral action. that action may disadvantage the eu economy without any real impact on greenhouse gas emissions. this has been a constant theme in the five years i have been in this parliament. at times, it has seemed that the eu really has been acting alone. i know people talk about that as leadership, but there is another way of looking at that, which is isolation. i am pleased to say that i think this rather lonely position seems to be changing. i am delighted that this meeting is actually taking place in new york in the united states. i think it is fitting as a venue as we see at long last some real and meaningful action from the us government. the us government’s climate power plan is a real step forward, and i really do welcome that this summer. china – that other giant economic power – is committed to implementing a carbon market by 2020, along with tangible targets for emissions reductions. so i think the news is becoming more optimistic. this is the context for ban ki-moon’s meeting in new york. as i understand it, the climate summit will concentrate on highlighting the benefits of taking action, not just the cataclysmic armageddon-style warnings, but looking at the real positives for the future of climate action. for too long we have been lectured and hectored about our obligations. it is high time that the tone was changed and that the moral high ground ceded to a spirit of true global cooperation and recognition of mutual benefits. we just need to look at the energy market as an example of where those two issues have become juxtaposed, i think to the benefit of us all. so it seems that the new york meeting will be taking us in that direction, and i wish it every success. indeed, to echo peter liese, i also wish commissioner hedegaard success in whatever she is doing next.
madam president, i think it was a good idea by ban ki-moon to have the summit next week. as commissioner hedegaard has said, we do need some momentum because it really is ‘make your mind up time’ on climate change in the next 15 months. will we do something, or will we simply let the problem get worse? i agree with everybody here who said that we need to go with a credible eu package – a package on our emissions for 2030, but also, as the commissioner has said, on our finances. a few years ago, i went to northern kenya and met pastoralists who lived in a very remote community. those people’s lives have changed already because of climate change. their children are going hungry now because of climate change. their daughters were being married off younger nine years ago because of climate change. it was just before gleneagles, and we talked about ‘make poverty history’ but we will never make poverty history unless we tackle climate change. that is why next week is so important. i want to ask the commissioner – and i think president barroso is going to new york– what we are taking there. are we taking a package from member states? are we going to speak with one voice there? how is the commission going to present in new york what the eu is doing? lastly, i want to add my voice to everybody here who has spoken about the work of connie hedegaard and her commitment to climate change in the past five years. as peter liese said, commissioner, there have been some very difficult moments and you always remained optimistic and always said that we would get somewhere in the end. i hope that next week we get somewhere, and i hope your optimism becomes infectious among the world leaders and that you continue to work in this area in the future. thank you very much. i would also like to thank your staff for all the work they did.
madam president, it seems that some of our colleagues are determined to write a suicide note for european economies. energy commissioner günther oettinger said that europe cannot afford a unilateral climate policy. former industry commissioner antonio tajani said that we are creating an industrial massacre in europe with energy prices. they were right. we should listen to them. our energy prices are driving industry, jobs and investment out of the eu altogether, often to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards. we are damaging our economies and arguably increasing global emissions at the same time. major economies around the world will not agree to swingeing emission cuts. we cannot lead if nobody follows. our first priority in lima must be to ensure that the eu is no longer disadvantaged in terms of energy prices compared with our major competitors. there are 1200 new coal-fired power stations in the global pipe line. emissions will rise whatever we do. let us not ruin our economy in a futile attempt to halt the inevitable. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, i do not know the details of energy prices in your country, but i do know that europe as a whole has the most expensive energy prices of any major economic area. i know that the reason for that is gross over-investment in inefficient and intermittent renewables. we are doing huge damage to our economy; there is no question of it. and we have to compete with america, which has cheap shale gas; with china and india, which have cheap coal and are building coal-fired power stations as if they were going out of style. get real, realise the dangers. these are your countrymen’s jobs you are worrying about – or not worrying about.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner, for being with us this evening. on ceta, i really have more questions than comments that i wish to put to you tonight. firstly, it is strongly rumoured that the council is not going to initial this text. i may be wrong, but i think this is the first time that the council has not initialled a text at the end of the negotiations. i would be interested to know if that is for political reasons, or if it has objections to the text, or if the council does not regard the text as having been concluded. if indeed it does not regard the text as having been concluded, is there a possibility that investor state disputes could still come out of the ceta-negotiated text? as you know, commissioner, my group would find it much easier to put its weight behind ceta if isds was removed from the text. we also have concerns in my group about generic medicines. we did hear from the chief negotiator in the committee on international trade, who gave me some reassurances, but i would like to hear from you tonight, commissioner, that the ceta agreement will do nothing to limit canadian production of generic medicines for the developing world. we also believe that the sustainable development chapter in ceta could be improved. and we also have issues regarding non-trade irritants, such as the seal ban, the visa-free travel that is denied to some eu citizens, and the issue of tar sands. again, although they are separate from the trade deal, we would like to hear the commission say that it is still working on solving these issues outside of the ceta negotiations. just to be absolutely clear, though – just like the commissioner, just as was outlined on the list – i see many positives in ceta, not least the issue of gis, not least the opportunities for small and medium-sized industries, not least the access that dairy products are being given to the market and the beneficial access that spirits will be given to this market. these are all good news. however, we have certain principles in our group. we understand that trade negotiations mean that compromises have to be made on both sides, but there are certain things that we will not compromise on.
mr president, while the ongoing talks between the eu and the united states have tended to be the focus of media and political attention, the canadian trade deal is no less significant. a number of colleagues have already touched on many of the risks and opportunities of trade deals, so i will focus mainly on the agricultural sector, which will, to a large extent, be the most affected. i see the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) with canada as one of the more ambitious in the agriculture sector. local producers will derive some hope from the arrangements on cheese, and producers with recognised geographical indications (gis) will be delighted with the increased quotas, and with the protection of the vast majority of other gis. these are aspects of the deal which i believe the commission should build on in future trade agreements, confidently promoting our high-quality produce on the global stage. i had the opportunity to meet canadian farmers recently and, believe you me, they are as concerned about this trade deal with the european union as we are about them – and that probably goes for all trade deals that one enters into: there is always a degree of trepidation as to what may or may not happen. we should go forward with a degree of confidence and we should learn the lessons from this one.
mr president, we in ukip believe in free trade; we seek engagement with the rest of the world; we are neither isolationist, nor protectionist. the eu, however, is corporatist and a protectionist customs union; the eu is an administrative and regulatory single market; the eu is inefficient and costly. we support the principles and ideas behind a free trade arrangement which removes tariff barriers between countries. the idea of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) should, in principle, be fine. but we recognise that so long as it is debated and controlled in private, in secret, by administrators who do not have our interests at heart this arrangement will create problems. my constituents are concerned that our great national health service could come under threat from corporations who would seek to challenge the government if we change the policies. we do not believe this is correct or right. we believe that the only way a proper arrangement and negotiations can be achieved is by the nation state looking after the interests of its own people. we do not believe in paying lip service to free trade, as the eu does. we believe in freedom, democracy and the nation state.
mr president, as a green mep, i call for the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) to be rejected because it contains a damaging investor-state dispute settlement (isds) mechanism, which threatens both democracy and the democratic process. the public consultation the commission ran on the inclusion of a very similar isds system in the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) agreement with the usa prompted 150 000 responses, and i think they are still being analysed. i would ask why the inclusion of isds in ceta is still going ahead without any heed for public opinion and concerns. if isds remains in ceta it is a step closer to corporations writing our laws instead of governments, and the uk government, to its shame, supports ceta as it stands. i implore david cameron and the other heads of state to reject it, as the greens certainly have every intention of doing when it comes before parliament ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this is a historic agreement but, in a period of intense public interest in eu trade negotiations, the eu’s rhetoric around transparency in democratic participation is rendered redundant if it is not put into action. it is therefore incredible that ceta was concluded only two weeks after the close of the public consultation on isds, which used the ceta text as its basis. what signal are we sending to europe’s citizens? concerns about the treatment of public services have been similarly dismissed, despite the scale of ambiguity surrounding what is actually included in this agreement. there has been no public debate about what our governments have included in the negative list, and there is no public support for the locking-in of the privatisation of public services, both through the inclusion of isds and ratchet clauses. transparency is needed on what is included for each member state, and therefore we would request that you publish exactly what is included in this trade agreement for each member state.
blue-card question to maria joão rodrigues. – i wanted to compliment you on your very fine words and aspirations. i actually share many of them myself, and i thought it was a very good and noble speech. what i am interested in is the way you intend to achieve it. do you not agree that the best way to achieve these goals is to free people’s spirit and entrepreneurial skills, let people work freely, free of tax burdens and overregulation and too much state, and allow people to achieve these things for themselves through freedom? then we can achieve our shared aims?
mr president, the euro may not have collapsed, but it certainly has failed. the basic test of any economic policy is whether it produces employment, growth and prosperity, and the euro has failed on all counts. for example, the economy of italy – a country famous for the flair of its people in design, cuisine, fashion, automotive industry and much else besides – is barely any bigger now than it was when the euro was born. it has been not just a lost decade, but already a lost decade and a half. we know, and you know, mr katainen, why this is happening. the economies of southern europe are on a lower long-term productivity path than is germany. in order to protect economic activity levels, they need to have their own currencies to gently depreciate against germany over time. they need to be able to set their own interest rates too. either that, or they will need large and permanent transfer payments. however, you do not have the social solidarity across the eurozone to make that tenable. these countries need economic self-determination. you have locked them into deflation. shame on you!
mr president, as we prepare for the eurozone summit, i think it ought to be reminding this house of some of the statistics that the politicians and commissioners and the senior people will be looking at on that day. gdp across europe is 0.1 %; the share of world gdp is falling year on year. unemployment sits around 11.5 % for the peoples of europe. in countries like croatia it is 17 %, 15 % in portugal; in spain it is 23 % and in greece it is 25 %. that is very good news for those people, is it not, when they know people will be sitting in large cars drinking champagne and working out how they are going to make their jobs better? i hear one of their supporters over there now. we also look at labour costs rising; unemployment rising; private investment falling. i say to you, ladies and gentlemen and members of this house: if it looks like a failure, it is a failure. if it smells like a failure, it is a failure. but all they will do at this summit is say: ah, the sweet smell of success!
mr president, all of us care about economic growth. it is crucial to all of us. whether or not you believe that the eu and the euro are fine ideals or whether you believe – as i do – that they are grotesque constructs dragging the people down, all of us agree that we need growth and we need our economies to grow together. the greatest way that we can do this is to free the peoples of europe from the chains that bind them and are holding all of them down – the over-oppressive state and too much taxation. there are too many things holding back their spirit. free the entrepreneurial spirit of the people of europe, allow them to work their way out of poverty; allow them, through their own drive, courage, determination and creativity, to make things great again. i call upon all of you, and particularly the commission, to please think of these noble concepts. we all want to be better off, we all want to be wealthier, but let us use our individual creativity to achieve this.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i think we all recognise that youth unemployment is a very serious problem right across europe and a subject of great concern. i think we also have to recognise that causes differ across the eu and there is no one-size-fits-all solution. i was very pleased that the council recognised this. so, no one-size-fits-all eu blueprint. but the commission has a great role to play in helping to share the ideas and best practice that it finds across the member states. i am very pleased that in my own country – the uk – youth unemployment fell by 206 000 in the last year. that is the largest fall since records began over 30 years ago, so i am pleased that we are going in the right direction. i am also very pleased that, to use another example from the uk, the uk government is abolishing employers’ national insurance contributions for the under-21s, thus encouraging businesses – and especially small businesses, where the burden falls heavily – to take on young people, because 80% of new jobs come from smes. so it is those companies that need to be helped and encouraged to take on young people. i think we also need to have programmes and encouragement for young people to become entrepreneurs, to use their great energy and enthusiasm, and to provide mentors to help them to create their own businesses, become entrepreneurs and, in turn, employ people themselves. there is still a lot to do, but i think that we are heading in the right direction. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – hello to my west midlands colleague. i wonder if she agrees with me that, when i hear these kind of debates, i am always reminded of what president reagan said – that the most frightening words in the english language are: i am from the government and i am here to help. also, would she agree with me that the best way to help west midlands youngsters get jobs is to stop the flow of unskilled mass immigration into our area, allowing them to get a foothold on the employment ladder?
blue-card answer. – i think my main concern is that we need to be developing skills. within europe we have a skills shortage. we have shortages in ict skills of somewhere between 300 000 and 700 000; we have a great shortage in science, technology, engineering and maths. so we do not have floods of people coming to take jobs – i know the fear that some parties thrive on – but what we are seeing, and you must have seen it in the west midlands, is youth unemployment coming down. we are pursuing the right policy.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, we sit here calling for more eu action, and it is the eu itself that is failing our youth of today. it is making it harder and harder for them to find jobs. your flagship youth guarantee scheme is doomed to fail. the international labour organisation said that it needed eur 21 billion to actually make it effective, but only eur 6 billion is budgeted for the current period, although i have just heard that you have raised a little bit more. but it is not enough, so it is another ‘eu triumph’. but the elephant in the room is immigration. we have a complete open door to 500 million people in the eu to compete for jobs, claim benefits and settle in the uk. how can we say to our young people that this is going to help them find work? we are forcing them to compete against a large workforce coming over from the eu and undercutting wages. the labour party and the conservative party, of course, support this open door immigration policy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – ms collins, i would like to ask whether it is true that bureaucracy and high taxation within the eu are preventing further job growth in the uk? i would also like to ask whether vocational skills provision is preventing job growth in yorkshire? certain wards of ours in yorkshire are experiencing 60-70% youth employment.
blue-card answer. – i would say definitely that bureaucracy, red tape and high taxation are the main reasons that small to medium businesses are struggling and failing, and if they are failing they cannot employ younger workers. i would agree that we need to put something in place whereby we can actually activate more apprentice schemes in our own region where we seem to be falling behind with our younger unemployed.
madam president, i would like to address the ukip meps who came briefly in their little gang and did their carefully choreographed cynical performance and then left very quickly clapping each other on the back in self-congratulation. i would like to say to them that to come to this serious, considered debate about hundreds of thousands, indeed millions, of young people denied the dignity and decency of work at the beginning of their lives – to come here with their dog-whistle, xenophobic, lowest common denominator politics – is a national disgrace. as a british person i am ashamed. what they should have said was that the uk government’s failure, with a programme that could have been implemented on 1 september, to have applied for funds is equally is a disgrace, letting down the young people of our country.
in writing. – the ecr group is opposed in principle to the use of this fund and i have voted against as a result. the use of the egf as a remedy for long-term structural imbalances is both unnecessary and ineffective. the egf is too often being used to supplement the income support already provided by national governments, and i do not believe this to be an appropriate use of eu resources. there is very little evidence that the egf even helps those workers for whom it was designed, and its implementation is a hindrance to the natural functioning of the single market.
in writing. – since 2007 the european globalisation adjustment fund has supported workers who lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation. in the period 2014-2020 the scheme will be available for additional categories of beneficiaries. not only employed workers made redundant can benefit from egf projects but also the self-employed, temporary workers and fixed-term workers. if redundancies occur in a region eligible under the youth employment initiative, such as the west midlands, a temporary derogation (until end-2017) will enable member states to offer services to an equal number of young people not in employment, education or training (neets). the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. – i voted against this report today. i am opposed in principle to the use of this european globalisation adjustment fund and as a result i cannot support this proposal to mobilise it.
in writing. – i support today’s report to provide technical assistance to the european globalisation adjustment fund. the egf provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. this support includes help with looking for a new job, careers advice, education and other areas of support and guidance, and i am pleased that young people not in employment, education or training in regions with high youth unemployment can also benefit from egf support. the egf is a vital tool to be utilised by the european union in order to assist those who have lost their jobs due to unforeseen circumstances resulting from the globalisation of the world’s economy.
in writing. – i welcome that today the european parliament overwhelmingly approved eu aid to help 508 greeks workers made redundant. the eur 6 096 000 in egf aid approved by parliament will pay for training to help these 508 people and another 505 young people without jobs to boost their employment chances. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. – i voted against this report today. i am opposed in principle to the use of this european globalisation adjustment fund and as a result i cannot support this proposal to mobilise it.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because the european globalisation adjustment fund is a very important tool by which we can support countries of the eu when they need it most. for example, this vote was for workers who had been made redundant. this redundancy was due to the forces of globalisation and the fund will not be a hand-out to them, but a means by which they can be reintegrated into the labour market of their country.
in writing. – together with other 613 other meps i voted today to help to help 1000 romanian workers made redundant by steel product maker mechel câmpia turzii. the eur 3 571 150 egf aid will help pay inter alia for vocational guidance, starting up new firms and providing mentoring after landing a job. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. – i voted against this report today. i am opposed in principle to the use of this european globalisation adjustment fund and as a result i cannot support this proposal to mobilise it.
in writing. – spain was granted eur 960 000 to help 280 workers who lost their jobs in the food and beverages services industry in the aragón region. the redundancies were due to declining demand during the financial and economic crisis. with 597 votes the european parliament has shown its solidarity for these spanish workers. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. – i voted against this report today, i am opposed in principle to the use of this european globalisation adjustment fund and as a result i cannot support this proposal to mobilise it.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because it will help the re-integration of the workers of the 89 enterprises that were made redundant. these redundancies had to be made because of the negative impact of the global financial and economic crisis. this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2014 budget and will come out of the netherlands’ allocation of funds in this pot.
in writing. - thanks to today´s vote dutch redundant workers are offered support after a lack of orders due to the financial crisis forced 89 building firms in the gelderland and overijssel provinces to make workers redundant. the €1,625,781 in egf aid will pay for training and other measures to help to 475 redundant workers back into jobs. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. – i voted against this report today, i am opposed in principle to the use of this european globalisation adjustment fund and as a result i cannot support this proposal to mobilise it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is an appropriate use of the global adjustment fund and will help the workers of that region re-integrate into the labour market.
in writing. – i voted against this report today, i am opposed in principle to the use of this european globalisation adjustment fund and as a result i cannot support this proposal to mobilise it.
mr president, i am a member of the committee on foreign affairs – my colleague over there spoke about the foreign affairs committee – and the meeting was called extremely quickly. as i pointed out in my speech yesterday in the chamber, the committee on international trade did not even have the opportunity to come back with a proper economic argument with regard to the trade implications of this treaty. it may well be that parliamentary procedure was followed correctly yesterday – i would say it possibly was not – but it certainly was not as far as the committee stage was concerned, and that is what really arouses my concern. if this truly is a democratic institution i would think that the powers that be here should go away and learn seriously from this flawed message. but then again, you carry on doing as you wish anyway, do you not?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission and the council for coming here today and telling us about the steps being taken this week. it is a critical week now for tackling this problem. mr stier mentioned the world health organisation figures of 20 000 dying before the end of the year. but that is if we do something. they are saying it will be much higher if we do not do something. so we really have to step up our act. there was the meeting on monday; i very much welcome what happened on monday in brussels and the announcement by the us president that the united states is going to take part in this global effort to combat ebola. but i think we need to reflect: we need short-term measures. we have to get the emergency under control but, once that is done, we need to reflect on the long term. it is pretty clear that we have all been slow off the mark, and we need to be asking ourselves: why is it that this epidemic is far more serious than ever before? why have more people died in this epidemic than have died since the disease was first identified about forty years ago? why is it that vaccines and treatments have been looked at for many years but we have not had the results we need? how do we make sure that this time we do the research and continue it when the headlines disappear, when hopefully we get the disease under control? a trial started today in the united kingdom, and we hope that clinical trial will lead to a vaccine. finally, i want to pay tribute, as the council did, to the health workers and professionals on the ground from our member states in particular who are going in, but also health workers from across africa and across the globe. they are very brave people; they have gone in under very difficult conditions. as the commissioner said, we need to strengthen the health systems in those countries and, if we make that commitment to strengthen them, it is a good investment for european citizens, because ultimately it will protect us at home as well. so the short term is under control, but we need long-term reflection.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am very encouraged by what commissioner georgieva has said about what we are doing. we also have to start an educational programme, as i understand that this virus is spread through bushmeat and other consumption of contaminated meat. i think we need to do that: we need to contain the problem and get the european and african unions involved in that containment programme. we need to get the bigger states, which can help the fragile states in africa, to become engaged. it is their problem, but it is our problem too. i would like to say a great thank you to all the health workers who have been putting their lives at risk to save other lives. they are sometimes forgotten. i also want to ask the commissioner if there is a vaccine or if there is something going on in the united states. should we not accelerate the process and not test it to death – so to speak – until it is not a crisis anymore?
mr president, earlier this year i led parliament’s work on the european and developing countries’ clinical trials partnership, which budgets more than eur 600 million over seven years towards finding new cures and treatments for infectious diseases – diseases which, unless tackled at their source, pose an extreme risk to european citizens. i understand that the commission is looking to fast-track some of this money into researching anti-viral drugs and vaccines for ebola, and i hope that colleagues will support this. no one can find cures to ebola by themselves but this programme enables african partners to work with our own national researchers, both charitably funded researchers and private companies like glaxo-smith-kline which, i understand, may have the most advanced potential vaccine for ebola. ebola is a real and growing danger. we have researchers, who are experts, who are already out there and in our own countries researching new means of prevention and treatments. this programme has already looked at the ethical and other issues. we have the money in our budgets. let us put it to good use and get it to the scientists right now. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – does my colleague share the opinions of her colleague mr deva, who raised the issue with regard to the contamination of bushmeat coming into the uk? could i ask her to take it back to her own party and perhaps ask her to review the situation? it was indeed her government that instigated the merging of her majesty’s customs and excise into a new border force (which in some quarters is jokingly referred to as a border farce). what we are now seeing is entrance points in some parts of the united kingdom where the priority seems to be dealing with people at the primary customs points. at the same time resources are being taken away from customs and excise and searching people returning from the african continent who, unfortunately in some quarters, do carry bushmeat.
blue-card answer. – as regards the first question, we have a very clear principle in this parliament that if you want to ask a question of another member you ask the member concerned, so i am afraid i cannot answer the question that you are putting to mr deva because, whilst he is an enormously esteemed colleague, i am not him. however, i will answer on the issue of the british role in the research programmes that i am describing. in answer to the second question about italian researchers, again i cannot speak for italian researchers. the uk research community is one of the leaders in trying to solve and help find solutions for infectious diseases that unless cured at source are putting increased risks back on our own communities at home, for example drug-resistant tb, which is back in parts of europe. that is why our researchers put their efforts in; our national governments put their efforts in. in this particular programme funding goes to match fund national governments. not all countries have decided to commit. it is not only eu-28, but it is a very significant part for the uk, and i think we should support our science and research community and get the money out to where it can make a difference.
mr president, ebola is not a distant threat. with ebola cases doubling every three weeks, there could soon be an emergency here as it spirals out of control. the eu has already started to mobilise but we need to do more, and urgently. we need to prevent future outbreaks. we must boost efforts to develop treatments for ebola and other deadly diseases. too often these diseases are ignored by pharmaceutical companies. they cannot make money from them. that is why we must invest public money. the jenner institute in oxford, working on a malaria vaccine funded by the eu, is ideally placed to work on ebola. today they have launched human clinical trials. this was only possible because they have the expertise through eu-supported research. funding for this kind of research is vital. global epidemics need to be contained quickly. we can only learn to do that through research. training scientists and building expertise now will mean that lives will be saved next time a new disease rears its ugly head.
mr president, as we have watched this horrifying disease unfold and the problems get worse and worse, i think we can all unite in saying how awful the situation is and how we salute the health workers who are there. i think it is absolutely crucial that at this time the politicians give direct answers, are honest, straightforward and take effective measures, and that all of us get behind the people who are trying to deal with this terrible problem. i think that more than anything we should all be united in sending our prayers, our best wishes and all our hopes to those who are suffering from this awful thing at this terrible time, and all our hopes are with them that they can come through this. i think that is the main message we can send from here today.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, not since the 1930s has mankind been tasked with tackling the perverted mind sets of a completely flawed ideal. before britain joined the european community, our independent foreign policy allowed us to broker alliances for the protection of those who were threatened. however, in the name of communality, we are losing this skill. this is all the more tragic as genuine diplomacy is what is needed at this pivotal moment in history. your obsession with harmonisation and a belief that you are always right can only be defined as navel-gazing. britain, not the european union, needs to take a lead here, not with troops on the ground but with the diplomacy to motivate and galvanise a global community of reasonable people, including moderate muslims, to put a stop to these murderous fanatics – including eu citizens in their ranks – who are intent on destroying the tolerance and decency which underpins civilised society. the western world wanted raging change in libya and syria, yet our leaders failed to comprehend how tangled the web of middle east politics really is. diplomacy is not about the good guys against the bad guys; it is about understanding how competing countries with competing interests can nevertheless find common ground against this global threat. so, this place has to wake up and smell the coffee. if we are serious about tackling is then just like in 1941 you have to accept russia and now her ability to reach out to middle eastern states which view the west differently. i am no fan of assad or putin, but i recognise the old premise that my enemyʼs enemy is my friend. if we are to forge a genuine coalition against is, then you have to stop provoking putinʼs russia as you did so theatrically here in this chamber yesterday. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – does my colleague agree with me that the acts of barbarism committed by british citizens in the name of this twisted ideology of is are a disgrace, and will he join with me in uniting to put all of our abilities together to make sure these people do not ever return to british shores, or to the eu, to perpetrate more acts of evil barbarism?
blue-card answer. – my colleague raises a very serious point and, yes, i do agree that this whole issue of eu open borders creates a problem not just for militants who may be british citizens returning to britain. they may indeed choose to settle in other parts of the european union and become a threat and take forward this barbarous, monstrous ideal, and this open-door border situation is a serious threat to the safety of all 28 eu member states. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, in all my years in this parliament i have never seen the president allow a member of one national delegation from one party ask a blue card of another in order to get two speeches out of one and play to a domestic gallery for political purposes. it was a clever move, mr etheridge, but i do not really think it should be encouraged in this parliament. i salute your creativity in this respect. my question to mr carver is a political one. he said that the enemy of your enemy is always your friend in foreign policy. would he not agree that we in fact made a terrible mistake in 1979 in thinking that the mujahidin in afghanistan, being the enemy of the soviet union, were our friend, and in backing them the cia and the americans backed these jihadists and we created a huge problem for the whole of the western world. i hope that ukip would grow up and realise that ʽthe enemy of your enemy is always your friendʼ is not actually the way we should conduct our foreign policy.
blue-card answer. – mr tannock, it is clearly you and and your party which are politically posturing here because we have on many occasions in the previous parliament seen your party carry out exactly the same tactic. but, with regard to comparing the mujahidin with putin’s russia, i feel there is no serious comparison. we have a situation here where we have to look at the wider picture and the influence that putin does have in parts of the middle east that western countries – and indeed this organisation – do not have. so we have to be realistic and, as mr farage said yesterday in this chamber, we have to stop prodding the russian bear.
madam president, i join all colleagues in this house in proposing a resolution which expresses deep revulsion at the brutal killing spree which has been waged in the name of islamic state and expresses full support for the international coalition to combat it. events today add to the tragic history of conflict both in iraq and in syria, and my group believes that there can be no substitute for the creation of stable, pluralistic democracies in both countries with full respect for minority and human rights and no impunity for all those responsible for violations. as socialists and democrats we emphasise that many muslims, in the arab world and within our own borders, are appalled by this horrendous violence. although there are those who would call this an islamic state, let me state that this is a fight not against islam, a great religion of peace, but one against terrorism. our group says that european diplomacy must give priority to a regional solution, one that, despite the difficulties, must include the participation of iran and of saudi arabia. i have to say i am appalled at the evidence given to the committee on foreign affairs that actors within the european union member states are purchasing oil which directly finances islamic state and i hope that the president-in-office in his response will commit to the urgent investigation of this problem that our resolution demands. finally let me express deepest sympathy for the death of the aid worker from my own member state, great britain, david haines. humanitarian workers go into zones of conflict and of danger in the world motivated only by the wish to help others. their only protection is the principles of international humanitarian law as enshrined in the geneva conventions. since 2003 the united nations has said that any attack on a humanitarian aid worker by a belligerent party is itself a crime of war. humanitarian workers indeed represent the best of humanity, and the killing of david haines and the threat against other humanitarian workers can only be described as an inhuman act. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am a joint author of the resolution, one which supports military action as well as other measures, including the cutting-off of financing to is and measures to work with the peaceful and moderate muslim community to stop radicalisation and to support cooperation amongst european countries in the provision of arms and military assistance, to make sure that there is no duplication and that there is effective cooperation between us to stop terrorists coming back within borders and threatening our own populations too. my group stands full square with the other groups in support of this resolution and i thank him for giving me the chance to say that in more detail.
madam president, the wave of terror inflicted by isis across iraq and syria continues to pose a major threat to global security. we have just witnessed the barbaric murder of the british aid worker david haines. in the face of these high-profile acts of evil aimed at intimidating western governments, we must also not forget the daily acts of barbarity that isis inflicts on shia muslims, mandaeans, turkmen, yazidis and christians. a number of nato states have already been rightly arming the brave kurdish peshmerga which, with the us air strikes, has proven an effective way in halting some of the gains made by is. i welcome yesterday’s announcement in paris of a wide-ranging coalition made up of both western and arab nations against isis. ahead of the security council meeting of 24 september we must also now find a way to extend these military actions against is in syria, particularly in raqqa, their capital, as well as in iraq where operations are currently going on. lastly, the eu needs to address the issue of more than 1000 eu citizens who are fighting as isis jihadis and how we prevent their return to commit terrorist acts in our own countries. this threat unusually posed by isis is one rare issue in foreign policy which unites all major powers across the globe, both democratic and authoritarian. the usa, china, russia, india and eu member states are all united in absolutely repelling and being revolted by and opposing this awful menace to global security. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – in the interests of a grown-up approach to foreign policy, as we have both agreed that we need to have – going back to the mujahidin in afghanistan and then going through the years even up to recently when western governments, including, shamefully, our own in the uk, were talking about arming people who we know are actually fighting – do you think it is a good idea to be sending more armaments into this hotbed of fighting? maybe we should perhaps stop giving these people weapons?
blue-card answer. – i fully support the arming of the kurdish peshmerga; i was the first in this house to call for that. i was delighted that that was responded to and that a number of western governments including the british, the americans and the germans are indeed doing just that. the kurdish regional government of northern iraq has proven to be a stable democratic and secular polity and they are absolutely united with the new iraqi government in baghdad in opposing the isis menace. but of course i am totally against the arming of any kind of militia if there was any serious danger of arms leaking to islamist jihadis.
blue-card question. – herr lambsdorff, would you prefer to see military input coming from an eu context, or would you prefer to see it in context of member states through their nato obligations?
madam president, i would like to start by asking the house to join me in sending our condolences and prayers to the family of david haines, recently murdered by isis, and also our hopes of a speedy return for alan henning, the hostage currently threatened by islamic state. since its rise in 2012, isis has been committing acts of barbarity and inhumanity not seen since roman times: beheadings, rape, crucifixion, massacres, persecution of minorities and the imposition of a twisted variant of sharia law typify this brutal terrorist organisation. the simple fact is that now, through government failure to tackle home-grown extremism, britain is now directly threatened by islamic state. in the middle east the west has long been seen as the ‘bad guys’, mainly due to the actions of bush sr, bush jr and blair. however we now have the opportunity to change this by dealing with the threat of isis, a group that now presents a bigger risk to world security than any other single actor at this moment. it is absolutely necessary for us to act with the utmost haste to destroy isis on both the national and international level, and no half measures can be taken. i am very pleased to see that the other arab states are supporting the us-led multinational effort to stop the spread of this cancer in its tracks. it is only through cooperation that we can hope to build lasting friendships in the region, tackle these threats to world security and defeat home-grown extremism. i also call on this parliament to vote in favour of any amendment condemning persecution by isis and to support national governments in their actions to tackle this problem. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – simply by the arab nations getting in with the us-led forces, maybe forces on the ground, also bombing. this isis is a cancer that must be crushed, and crushed swiftly.
mr president, whilst the causes that led to the birth of isis are complex, and responsibility for them may even lie far beyond the middle east, the threat of isis nevertheless remains very serious and substantial. its murderous onslaught against minorities and sectarian groups, women and children, has been deeply disturbing. isis has now warned that mr henning, one of my constituents in the north-west, would be next. mr henning is a good compassionate man who went to syria to help those suffering. we cannot allow isis to continue with this barbarity. muslims everywhere are appalled that these crimes are being carried out in the name of their faith. in fact a letter signed by muslim imams and leaders is going out today asking for the release of mr henning. isis’s false ideology and narrative must be confronted. it is imperative that a broad coalition including the arab countries be put in place to tackle the menace of isis.
mr president, we have witnessed a terrible evil in recent weeks. the murders of james foley, david sotloff and the british aid worker david haines are truly barbaric. my thoughts and prayers are with their families, as well as with the family of alan henning – and alan henning himself, who continues to be threatened in the same way. this situation imperils not only the immediate region, but also the whole world. while media attention is focused on these barbaric actions, we must remember and give support to those who have suffered a long campaign of religious and ethnic cleansing, those who have faced the threat ‘convert or die’, and those who have suffered displacement and injury. today, along with colleagues, i am displaying the translated word for christian, a symbol used by islamic state (is) to mark out christian homes during their killing rampages. we need action from the international community but the failure of the european union is evident. it is disappointing that baroness ashton has not taken the time to contribute to today’s debate herself.
blue-card question. – do you have a particular view on the military action that was taken jointly by egypt and the united arab emirates back in august when a military attack was launched against isis-style militias in libya? what i find most striking about this was the fact that washington and the white house did not receive any prior warning that this military action was going to be taken. do you agree with me that perhaps moderate muslim countries are now beginning to look at tackling this on their own rather than listening to the western approach?
blue-card question. – two thousand civilians died in the israeli bombing, 450 of them children. do you really think that the european union should be on the side of a country which is prepared to sacrifice innocent civilians for its own political ends?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, israel’s attack on gaza resulted in the killing of 2147 people, 503 of them little children. these were crimes against humanity under international criminal law and international humanitarian law. recently, 13 meps were refused access to gaza because israel did not want us to see destruction there that is comparable to world war ii. on fact-finding in the west bank, we meps witnessed the south-africanisation of palestine with its apartheid roads, walls and buses. israel’s violations of international law have been well documented – on six occasions, in fact – by the un security council plus the international court of justice. the clearest violations are the illegal transfer of 600 000 israelis to live in illegal settlements in occupied palestine, where 170 000 acres of palestinian land have been confiscated since the oslo accord – 1000 acres last week alone. international law imposes a duty on all members of the international community, including the eu, not to recognise as lawful or render aid or assistance in maintaining a situation created by a serious breach of international law. allowing economic relations with israeli illegal settlements and importing their products into the eu contributes to the prosperity of those settlements and assists in their development, all of which is contrary to obligations under international law. those who make the law must uphold it. the eu must not simply discourage business relations with firms established in illegal settlements and only insist on correct labelling of settlement goods, but must also halt all relations with israel and prohibit imports of its goods. after all, what happened in gaza over 51 days makes us look at article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement, which must be implemented. if it is implemented, that means that the association agreement must be suspended.
mr president, the green group will not be supporting this joint resolution as it fails to properly address either the causes or the solutions to the conflict between israel and palestine. our alternative resolution highlights the gross disproportionality in the violence and the casualties of the gaza war and holds both sides to account. it stresses the positive roles for both the eu and the new palestinian unity government as brokers for peace and calls for the lifting of the illegal blockade of gaza, extension of the permitted fishing zones and opening of the border crossing. finally, we recognise the danger that israel’s recent and largest land grab in 30 years represents to the palestinian interests and to the delivery of the two-state solution. overall, the joint resolution fails to call for any of those things. it is weak, it is biased, it is factually incorrect and it offers no sense of a parliament role for the eu’s future role in the aftermath of this vicious war.
mr president, this is our first opportunity to react to the temporary ceasefire in gaza and, perhaps even more importantly, our last chance to comment, eight days before the deadline to secure a permanent ceasefire and ensure there is no more violence. today our parliament must support the eu representative in insisting that there must be no return to the pre-war status quo in gaza. the humanitarian crisis started not with the 50 days of operation protective edge but with the 2500 days of the blockade which preceded it. the eu must contribute humanitarian assistance, but it must now act politically too, so that we are not trapped inside the seemingly endless cycle of destruction and reconstruction. i encourage and welcome diplomatic engagement with other regional players, further efforts to build palestinian reconciliation and renewed discussion about a new role for the eu border assistance mission. however, after the failure to follow up on the goldstone commission, i hope the inclusion in the new un investigation commission on war crimes of a lawyer due to be married to george clooney means that its work will have more substance than the hollywood dream factory. five hundred children died in the gaza conflict and 63 000 people were forced to shelter in just 29 un schools. the attacks on those schools were called ‘criminal’ by the un secretary general and ‘a war crime’ by human rights watch. a child of six in gaza has now lived through three wars. we should uphold the palestinian authority and support it when it says it wants to see in gaza ‘one authority, one gun, one law’. but, most of all, we should work with both israel and the palestinians towards the day when not even one gun is needed to preserve peace and security for all.
mr president, for the third time in a decade we will contribute to the rebuilding of gaza after a conflict. the chronic cycle of violence and violent deterrence has to end, we are all agreed on that, but i have to say that the words we heard from the high representative’s representative and the resolution that we are going to pass tomorrow will make not the slightest difference to the situation in gaza. like many others who have spoken, i believe the only solution is a two-state solution, but the combination of illegal israeli settlements in occupied east jerusalem and the west bank and the closure of the gaza strip makes it near impossible to achieve this. in fact, every day, every action by the israelis takes us further and further away from a two-state solution and from a peaceful settlement. i agree with other colleagues who have spoken – ms anderson said it first i think, but others too have mentioned article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement – in saying that, until israel shows it is clearly determined to move down a path of peace, we have to suspend that association agreement. we have to ensure that the guidelines on eu money going into projects in the occupied territories are fully implemented. we have to make sure that goods from the occupied territories do not enter the european union. until israel gets the message that the eu is prepared to act it will not listen to our words.
mr president, the loss of human life and damage to properties in this conflict has been shocking. what is even more shocking is how little influence we in the eu have been able to yield. despite the fact that we are israel’s largest trading partner and palestine’s largest aid donor, we have been virtually absent from the palestinian conflict. we can – and need to – do more to find a permanent solution in this long and ongoing conflict. we should not tolerate the collective punishment of palestinians. we should therefore demand that israel open gaza’s borders. israel must halt and withdraw from all illegal settlements, which are currently undermining the two-stage solution. we must also support the investigation of war crimes. failing this, we should suspend relations under the human rights clause in the eu-israel association agreement and we should stop pretending that israel follows international norms. if we need to, we should consider imposing sanctions against israel. that includes military sanctions as we have done against russia.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, here we go again, with yet another good cause and good words hijacked and twisted for a battle cry for the liberal elite who run this place; a way to allow human rights to become no more than a charter for international human rights lawyers like the odious cherie blair to make a fortune. the eu tells us that we must let it regulate our emissions from our factories or the world will end. it tells us to join closer together or our external enemies will defeat us or, worse still, will fight each other. it now tells us that it must dictate human rights to the whole world. that is cultural imperialism. we should think more of justice, not of these so-called rights. think of 1993: a 14-year-old girl called jennifer ertman and a 16-year-old called elizabeth peña were gang-raped and murdered in texas. a gentleman called josé medellín was sentenced to death. in 2005 the eu intervened with a legal case. it used our money to defend a child raping murderous monster. that is not rights; that is not what we believe in, surely. recently, randy ertman, the father of jennifer, died after a lifetime spent supporting victims’ rights. human rights are not granted by this place and this is cultural imperialism. all human beings need the right to freedom of expression and the expression of their opinions, but most importantly the right to wield justice just like that which this place sought to deny jennifer. it is time for britain to leave the eu and to lead the way to true justice, as we always have. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – i am not sure that mr etheridge entirely has the point about what we are doing here when we defend human rights. what we are trying to do is support people who are fighting for democracy and in countries where their attempt to get the basic civil rights that he enjoys lands them up being tortured and in jail. that is what we are actually doing today. i would like to ask him: does he believe in democracy? does he believe that others have the right to self-expression which he has himself just enjoyed in this place?
blue-card answer. – i passionately believe in those things: that is why i am a member of ukip, in the efdd group. i believe in direct democracy, i believe in freedom of expression and i believe in the democracy that is denied to so many people under the auspices of this place and these institutions. i would remind you that, in the west midlands, we won: ukip won. and across the whole of england, ukip won. we are representing the democratic views of the british people.
madam president, there is simply not enough time to address all the necessary issues in this debate. we have little to celebrate this year. while the eu engages in geopolitical stalemate, many people within the eu like women, third country nationals and lgbti individuals to name just three, still struggle to have their rights recognised. however, one issue i wish to briefly highlight is the ongoing shameful lack of action of the european union on the situation in palestine. the eu-palestinian authority’s european neighbourhood policy action plan, adopted by the council in june, envisages a palestinian state based on the rule of law, full respect for human rights, development of democratic values and the promotion of a vibrant civil society. recent events show that this is far from happening and, by continuing trade relations with israel, the eu condones their actions and plays a part in the oppression of the palestinian people and the continuing denial of human rights. there are no human rights without freedom and peace. there is no point celebrating human rights defenders when the eu does not defend human rights itself and takes no action against israel’s gross violation of human rights and allows it to act with impunity and carry out crimes against humanity under human rights and international law. so rather than boasting about what the eu does to uphold human rights, the eu stands accused, unfortunately, of being complicit in crimes against humanity.
madam president, i worked on the human rights report this year and the achievements it reflects, in particular the creation of the new human rights dialogue with burma to seek to contribute to the process of transition in that country, the agreement of new guidelines to respect the human rights of lgbti people and for freedom of religion and belief, the agreement of the updated instrument on the european initiative for democracy and human rights in which this parliament was a partner, and the conduct of successful election observation missions during the year, including in pakistan where i was present myself and where our presence is proving to make such a real difference in defending democracy. to the eeas and the commission i stressed that the report presages moving to a new phase where the priority must be not drafting country human rights strategy papers but implementing them, not appointing human rights focal points but seeing them work, not in an action plan but in action, full stop. as parliament is fully aware of my special interest in corporate responsibility, you will understand that it is right to recall that 2013 was the year of the tragic rana plaza factory collapse in bangladesh, leaving more than 1000 people dead, people who stitched clothes for high street shops in the capitals across europe, highlighting how progress in the eu on implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights is both necessary and as yet insufficient.
madam president, there is an old saying that if you put something under your nose you do not see it. i would like to draw attention to a human rights issue here in the european union, and that is the despicable treatment of roma gypsies in some eastern european countries, which has led to large numbers moving away to seek a better life in western europe. as has been well reported in the british media, we have huge social tensions and problems now in sheffield and in london. i speak probably as the only member of this chamber who is from british romany descent by virtue of my nanna, rose. the metropolitan elite in my country tend to treat travellers as one specific people, but there are irish travellers, british romany, new age travellers and showmen. we are all very different people who need to be treated very differently. i say to the eu it should put its own house in order and deal with the problems of the roma travellers in eastern europe before seeking to go elsewhere across the world.
author. - madam president, in july we watched with horror as the azerbaijani government waged war on its civil society. it has targeted some of the country’s most prominent human rights defenders, imprisoning them on the basis of trumped-up and politically motivated charges. i name in particular leyla yunus, arif yunus, rasul jafarov and intigam aliyev. we need a strong condemnation of the detention of azerbaijani human rights defenders in order to raise their profile and offer them protection, and for the same reason i am proud to say that the green group has nominated leyla yunus for this year’s sakharov prize. i also note the most recent news that the un subcommittee on the prevention of torture has decided to suspend its visit to azerbaijan due to obstructions it encountered in carrying out its mandate under the protocol against torture, of which azerbaijan is a signatory. in our own resolution we call for all bogus charges against the human rights activists to be dropped and urge the azerbaijani authorities to end the practice of selected criminal prosecution and imprisonment of critics of the government. we call on the azerbaijani authorities to halt all actions aimed at supressing freedom of express and assembly. in relation to our own eu institutions, we call on the council and commission and our high representative to ask for the immediate release of all azerbaijani human rights defenders and to apply the ‘more for more’ principle with a specific focus on their situation. we also insist that negotiations towards a new strategic modernisation partnership with azerbaijan should be put on hold until these minimum steps are taken, and that the advancement of relations between the eu and azerbaijan should be clearly linked to practical steps by the government to improve its abysmal record. the case of leyla yunus was brought to my attention by a constituent who knows her well and who has told me of the terrible suffering that dr yunus is undergoing. it is too personal to be detailed here but it should not be forgotten and it should motivate us to condemn the actions of the azerbaijani government in the strongest terms and to demand the same standards of human rights that we ourselves would expect as eu citizens.
author. - madam president, whether one looks at the progress made in achieving the millennium development goals, reforms to the police force aimed at ending human rights abuses in that institution, or the strong support that the reconciliation process is receiving from the bangladeshi government, particularly in terms of setting up the international crimes tribunal (ict) in order to bring closure to the terrible crimes committed during the 1971 war of liberation, what is happening in dhaka is worthy of praise. such praise is especially well deserved when we consider that bangladesh exists under the continued threat of jihadi terrorist activity and the subsequent need constantly to reconcile security concerns with civil liberties – a concern that all of us in the west are increasingly acutely aware of. this is something we must take into consideration when thinking about this country. the self-defeating conduct of the bangladesh national party during the recent general election and its ultimate boycott of that election have been unhelpful to one of the rare examples of a genuine secular democracy in south asia. following the disasters in the garments industry, the eu must give more support to this strategic south asian country.
author. - madam president, during the many visits this parliament made to bangladesh in the previous parliamentary term, we experienced a very vibrant and very diverse media, and we met with many ngos working on a variety of important issues from women’s rights – where bangladesh is making progress – to poverty reduction, human rights and torture allegations. they have helped the government make significant progress on the millennium development goals and we want that to continue to be the state of affairs. that is why we are concerned at particular legislative changes which we feel put that dynamism at risk. this is an issue that we raised when we were there earlier this year. we are not yet clear about how these changes, and particularly the ngo changes, will affect donor engagement. the eu is, of course, a significant part of that, so i would hope to hear something from the commission about it. we all know that politicians, whatever their party, find a critical press and ngos inconvenient, embarrassing and even threatening at times, but they are an important element of a democratic society, especially when the formal political opposition is weak or non-existent. we also raise the issue of the rapid action battalion. we should welcome recent moves to indict a number of officers, but the number of those dying at the hands of the rab has begun to rise again. we have seen 88 deaths in the last seven months and there is real concern about the lack of accountability. we want to see the government operate its zero-tolerance policy against human rights abuses by law enforcement agencies and we welcome the training put in place with the international committee of the red cross. we need a strong and independent judiciary and a civil society and active parliament to make sure that the measures take effect. others have referred to the death penalty. there is widespread public and political support in bangladesh for this, so we welcome the government’s acceptance of the supreme court’s commutation of the death sentence of mr sayedee under charges under the international crimes tribunal. for those who are concerned about the issues around trade union rights and decent pay – and quite rightly concerned – there are major issues there. i would also pick up on what a previous speaker has said that we need to make sure that the international community is paying what it owes to make sure that changes can really be made and take effect.
madam president, i join other members in recognising that bangladesh has made incredible progress on the millennium development goals, and also in recognising that the devastating impact of the recent floods in the country is simply one demonstration of how bangladesh is so vulnerable – the most vulnerable country in the world – to the impact of climate change. but today we emphasise that it must make progress on human rights and democracy too. we express deep concern about the new media law restricting criticism of the government, the proposed ngo law and allegations of widespread abuses by the security forces, although the recent commuting of sentence of the islamist leader in the supreme court could help set a new precedent about the absolutely unacceptable use of the death penalty. finally, following the rana plaza tragedy, the new labour law has not yet led to the necessary progress towards the formation of trade unions in the country. while we should absolutely welcome tesco, sainsbury’s and next taking responsibility through the accord on fire and building safety in bangladesh, we should absolutely condemn gap and asda-walmart for failing to do so.
in writing. - amendment 8: ukip is deeply concerned by the escalation of the crisis in ukraine, and feels the grandstanding that occurred in parliament on 16 september only deepened the potential for a prolonged crisis. we welcome this amendment that stresses that dialogue, not military action, is the means to a peaceful solution.
in writing. – amendment 8: ukip is deeply concerned by the escalation of the crisis in ukraine, and feels the grandstanding that occurred in parliament on 16 september only deepened the potential for a prolonged crisis. we welcome this amendment that stresses that dialogue, not military action, is the means to a peaceful solution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution asking all sides to respect the ceasefire and implement it without delay and further loss of life. russia must cease supporting pro-russian separatists in eastern ukraine and stop the flow of military equipment and soldiers through the russian-ukrainian border. further sanctions must be implemented if russia continues to escalate the situation in ukraine. the territorial integrity of ukraine must be respected. the eu should also focus on supporting direct talks between ukraine and russia in its efforts to assist ukraine with regaining stability and implementing crucial political and economic reforms.
in writing. – the action undertaken by russia has led me to support today’s resolution which urges the eu to take a greater stand against russian action in ukraine. i support the action undertaken by france to halt its delivery of the helicopter carriers to russian authorities. in addition to this, i support the call to expand eu sanctions against russia by excluding them from civil nuclear cooperation and the swift international payment system.
in writing. – i applaud the work done by the various aid agencies and brave doctors and nurses from the united kingdom and around the world, who have risked their lives to combat the ebola virus. i believe that international help and support must be given to prevent the spread of this virus. however, as a ukip mep my view is that this is best co-ordinated through the world health organisation, the united nations and the individual nation states themselves. the european union is not well placed to take action.
in writing. – ukip has profound concerns about the risk of ebola to the british people. this is particularly true given the lack of proper border controls, which could possibly allow recently killed infected meat into the country. however ukip respects the courage of aid workers who are helping those in areas of outbreak and wishes to convey our deepest condolences to all those suffering as a result of this disease.
in writing. – ukip has profound concerns about the risk of ebola to the british people. this is particularly true given the lack of proper border controls, which could allow infected meat into the country. however ukip respects the courage of aid workers who are helping those in areas of outbreak and wishes to convey our deepest condolences to all those suffering as a result of this disease.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution calling for an eu emergency plan to fight the ebola epidemic in west africa. the ebola outbreak has so far caused almost 2 000 deaths, reached five african countries, and its spread is fast accelerating, also having consequences for food insecurity. it poses a global security challenge. the international community must therefore mobilise immediately to contain the epidemic. the eu financial assistance is very welcome; however further, coordinated action is needed. we must also look into long-term solutions to strengthen health systems and avoid new epidemics.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe the ebola outbreak in the west of africa is very serious and it is only by working together that we will be able to combat it efficiently. coordinated european action is vital not only in preventing the further spread of disease and death in the region, but also to prevent it from spreading to europe and other regions.
in writing. – the widespread chaos caused by the ebola epidemic constitutes a challenge to global security, and therefore requires a global answer to combat this dangerous situation. i therefore support today’s resolution calling for an eu emergency plan to fight the on-going ebola epidemic in west africa.
in writing. – i co-authored this resolution that calls for the international community to play a greater and more strategic role in combating the ebola virus outbreak, and encourages the european commission to continue to increase its financial commitment to humanitarian aid. the response from the eu and member states has not been swift enough, and there is an urgent need to prevent the spread of the virus. the world health organisation has estimated that over 20 000 people could be infected by ebola within a few months, and shortages of food and water are expected to continue. this resolution therefore calls for the commission to begin country-by-country assessments of the ebola risk, and help to coordinate the international response to this crisis. labour meps have voted for this resolution because we believe the international response to ebola has been inadequate so far, and a coordinated, well-funded, strategic response is overdue.
madam president, we are all shocked by the barbaric killings we have witnessed recently in the middle east and our thoughts and prayers are with the families who have been affected, and with the family of alan henning and indeed alan henning himself who faces a terrible threat in these days. not only this but also the killing rampages against christian communities in syria and iraq. it is imperative that the eu makes available effective means to help protect christian members of minority faiths across the middle east. it is fitting too that my thoughts should also turn to the recent passing of the right honourable lord bannside who represented my constituency in this parliament between 1979 and 2004; he was an immense ambassador of the christian cause as well as a fervent advocate for northern ireland. his work here led to european support for peace funding for my constituency. we in northern ireland will never see his like again; i dare say europe will not either. our thoughts and prayers are with his wife and family circle.
in writing. – ukip usually opposes foreign intervention and still feels that british soldiers should not be deployed to iraq and syria at this stage. however isis is such a dangerous and vicious entity that we feel we should support moderate countries in the region in their fight against it. we also fear the lack of proper border controls may lead to attacks in europe. amendment 5 extremist islam, and the current threat posed by isis is a global, is not just a middle eastern issue. the international community must therefore work together, under the umbrella of the united nations to coordinate efforts against isis. this should be led by moderate muslim countries, supported by the west.
in writing. – ukip usually opposes foreign intervention and still feels that british soldiers should not be deployed to iraq and syria at this stage. however isis is such a dangerous and vicious entity that we feel we should support moderate countries in the region in their fight against it. we also fear the lack of proper border controls may lead to attacks in europe.
in writing. – i supported the resolution calling for an international coordination of efforts to counter the menace of isis and to protect all civilian victims of the conflict, regardless of their ethnicity and religion. the threat of isis remains very serious and substantial. its murderous onslaught against minorities and sectarian groups, women and children, journalists and aid workers has been deeply disturbing. muslims everywhere are appalled that these crimes are being carried out in the name of their faith. isis’ false ideology and narrative must be therefore confronted and a broad coalition, including arab countries, put in place to tackle the threat of isis.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution although i have reservations about the inclusion of the words ‘by all means’ when we are talking about how to combat this terrorist offensive. i do not believe that a large-scale, military intervention is wise or effective, but would not rule out smaller-scale assistance at the request of the iraqis or others defending their peoples and country. i also believe a un initiative is needed. however, the tactics of the self-styled is (a name both condemned by many moslems and arrogant in its claim) are designed to strike terror into the population and to remove any potential opposition or plurality. the resolution is clear in its abhorrence of is and clear on the need to provide humanitarian assistance for those in the region and governments, the kurdish regional authorities and settled populations under pressure due to the displacement of thousands, if not millions. it is clear on the need for the eu to do more in solidarity for refugees and it is clear on the need for an effective, inclusive government in iraq and a political solution to the situation in syria, which must include the region as a whole.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in iraq and the isis offensive including the persecution of minorities. in the resolution we not only strongly condemn attacks against civilian targets and the use of execution and sexual violence in the conflict but also call for a sustainable political solution involving all the components of iraqi society and addressing their legitimate grievances.
in writing. – i supported today’s resolution that strongly condemns the islamic state. the indiscriminate killings, forced conversions, abductions and other grievous actions undertaken by the islamic state represent a considerable threat to the stability and security not only of the middle east but of the wider region.
in writing. – this resolution calls for all parties to the conflicts in iraq and syria to ensure the protection of the civilian population, and to remember their obligations under international humanitarian law. the resolution also calls for the international community to assist the iraqi authorities in protecting vulnerable minority groups, and particularly women, in the areas threatened by isil. the resolution also reiterates concern about the number of foreign fighters, including citizens of eu member states, who have joined the isil insurgency. labour meps voted for this motion, which was also co-authored by my colleague richard howitt, because we believe that the actions of isil threaten to destabilise the region, and that the protection of innocent civilians and vulnerable or minority groups is absolutely essential.
in writing. – i supported the resolution, as i am very concerned about the humanitarian crisis in libya and extremist groups gaining a territorial foothold. the situation needs to be urgently addressed and the arms embargo to the country enforced. the eu must co-operate to support libya in securing a ceasefire between the warring parties and putting the country on the path to peace. a partnership with regional players should be also actively promoted to help bring governance and help rid libya of violence, terrorism and crime.
in writing. – in the resolution on the situation in libya the european parliament demonstrates its wish to be more involved in supporting libya’s stability and transition to democracy.
madam president, i feel that there are several aspects that must represent the core of this parliament’s response to the current situation in this region. firstly, we need to stand behind israel’s sovereign right to defend its borders and people from terrorism, but we are also mindful of the immense suffering hard-felt by the people of gaza as a direct result of this operation and we need to act to help. secondly, we must recognise the impact that operation protective edge is having on the safety of jewish communities across the eu. in the united kingdom alone there were approximately 240 reports of anti-semitic incidents in july as the fighting escalated. these types of hate crimes are completely unacceptable and as meps and as a parliament it is absolutely vital that we send a message across europe that religious tolerance has never been more important.
in writing. – amendment 8:this amendment called for the release of over 7 000 prisoners - how are we supposed to know the nature of the offences committed? the large number of prisoners to be released would result in such individuals continuing their violent activities. given the delicate ceasefire in israel and gaza, as well as the wider region, this would be an unnecessary risk. amendment 13the eu has a long running hypocrisy in its policies related to produce on land controlled by other countries. whilst this amendment called for produce on ‘occupied’ land in israel to be banned from european markets, the eu continues to ignore produce imported into the market by morocco, but originating in the territory it occupies in western sahara. amendment 16this amendment called for an end to eu funds under the horizon 2020 programme in israel. whilst i do not necessarily support punitive measures against israel at a time when diplomacy is vital, i do not believe uk taxpayers’ money should be going to israel or any other country for that matter under horizon 2020.
in writing. – with regard to amendment 8:this amendment called for the release of over 7 000 prisoners. many of these individuals will have had convictions for violence, terrorism and extremism. the large number of prisoners to be released would result in such individuals continuing their violent activities. given the delicate ceasefire in israel and gaza, as well as the wider region, this would lead to greater instability.
in writing. – this amendment called for the release of over 7 000 prisoners. many of these individuals will have had convictions for violence, terrorism and extremism. the large number of prisoners to be released would result in such individuals continuing their violent activities. given the delicate ceasefire in israel and gaza, as well as the wider region, this would lead to greater instability.
in writing. – i strongly supported the resolution calling for the eu to play a more active role in the efforts to find a permanent solution in this long on-going conflict. the loss of human life and damage to property in this conflict has been shocking. the eu must therefore participate effectively in the urgent humanitarian aid effort and in the reconstruction of gaza. we should demand that israel open gaza’s borders and immediately halt and withdraw from all illegal settlements, which are undermining the two-state solution. the eu, as a major trade partner and donor in the region, should more effectively use the leverage of its instruments, particularly in the field of trade policy, to resume credible peace talks and achieve tangible results in this process.
in writing. – i voted against this resolution as, while the basis of it was reasonable, it added nothing of real strength to the resolution of a few weeks ago. i supported many of the amendments tabled by gue, as i feel the eu must be clear in its condemnation of the continued building of settlements in palestinian territory, the recent ‘land grab’ after the tragic deaths of four youths and the ongoing ‘siege’ of gaza. when i visited the area some years ago, i was told israel can choose to create a real economy or a tunnel economy – they chose the latter, which has given control of the territory to the very people israel wishes to remove. yes, the rocket attacks into israel must stop: i could not vote for the gue resolution although i agreed with much of the text because it reflected only part of what is happening. but i feel that the ep has to recognise that, until there are real consequences for the israeli government’s ongoing creation of ‘facts on the ground’, nothing very much will change.
in writing. – the need to allow humanitarian aid to civilians in the gaza strip is essential to establishing a lasting peace in the region. for this reason i supported the resolution calling on israel and hamas to allow humanitarian aid into the gaza strip immediately.
in writing. – this resolution calls for the eu to participate in the rebuilding of gaza and provision of urgent humanitarian aid to the population of the gaza strip after the recent gaza war ended with a ceasefire in august. the role of egypt in brokering the ceasefire was commendable, and the involvement of other key regional actors should be encouraged. the resolution also states that the current situation in gaza is unsustainable, and reiterates support for a two-state solution and the removal of the blockade in gaza. labour meps supported this resolution because we believe that the eu should play a key role in rebuilding gaza and providing aid, and that the two-state solution is the only way to ensure lasting peace and security for the israeli and palestinian people.
in writing. - mr president, i have voted against the proposal to remove fiji from the beneficiaries of duty-free quota-free access to the eu market, because of the disastrous impact it would have on the sugar, agriculture and processed agricultural product sectors of the fijian economy. many fijian workers who rely on these export sectors could lose their jobs and livelihoods as a result, with no certainty that the aims of the proposed rejection would have any concrete political impact. additionally, the new epa contains a strong human rights clause, with the possibility of suspension of preferences should fiji not respect its commitments. therefore, the greens and gue are, by arguing that the epa should not be implemented, making the chances of democratic transition more unlikely by removing possible eu leverage.
mr president, although we have changed – or should i say you have changed – our seating arrangements, i just want to clarify that this afternoon we achieved the necessary number of signatures to ensure that the efdd group remains intact. (applause and laughter)last week we came under attack when one of our meps resigned in what can only be described as curious circumstances, allegedly aided and abetted by you, which i believe brings into question your neutrality as president of this parliament. (applause and cries of ‘hear, hear!’) i would therefore like a commitment from you that no shenanigans like this will take place again in the future and that you will remain neutral, as your job title says you should be. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i want to talk about some of the extreme weather events that we expect to see as a result of climate change. my region of south-west england was subject to extreme flooding this past winter, which has focused our minds on both flood alleviation and flood prevention. as greens, we call for three elements of a responsible flood policy. first there needs to be adequate investment in the infrastructure that prevents flooding, and we must not allow austerity cuts to increase the risk as our communities become inundated. we also need to take a whole-catchment approach and consider how our farming practices have reduced the land’s ability to absorb rainfall for longer before it drains into the river. land management that involves maintaining hedges and trees using organic methods that reduce soil run-off should be prioritised in the cap subsidiary scheme. thirdly, we must make explicit the link between flooding and climate change and be reminded by flooding incidents across europe of the urgent need to agree meaningful carbon-dioxide reductions at the cop 21 negotiations in paris next year.
in writing. – i welcome this statement on tackling flooding in europe, and congratulate the commission on promoting better options for addressing this critical issue, including green infrastructure, natural water-retention measures and sustainable urban drainage. as a member of our delegation to the serbian parliament, i also express my solidarity with the serbian people in particular, given the appalling consequences in their country of recent floods. we must continue to allocate eu emergency aid and ongoing technical assistance to serbia and other countries in desperate need of our help. despite the wettest winter ever in the united kingdom last year, our government is failing to allocate the necessary resources to deal with increased flood risk as a result of climate change. in contrast, budgets have been slashed and environment agency staff numbers reduced. in my home city of london, we share many common concerns on flooding with cities and towns across the european union affected by tidal rivers, and know that at least 24 000 properties are at risk of flooding. we must be ready for the even more difficult times ahead. i urge the commission to keep up the pressure on member states to prioritise better flood prevention and management.
in writing. – people in my region, the west midlands, have been hit hard by extreme floods over the past years, and 2014 was no exception. according to local experts, over 70 % of businesses have incurred significant damages due to extreme weather, with nearly half of them having suffered losses exceeding gbp 200 000. this is not to mention the material and emotional damage that floods have brought to people in the private sphere. meanwhile, the uk government has cut the budget of our environment agency, thereby significantly straining its ability to undertake decent flood risk management. in this context, it is vital that the commission scales up investment in flood prevention with a focus on structural measures that protect health, safety, valuables and property, and closely scrutinises flood-risk management plans required to be submitted by member states under the floods directive. given that expert evidence indicates that the increased occurrence of storms causing these floods is linked to climate change, a crucial part of the eu response should moreover consist in increasing efforts to tackle greenhouse gas emissions and other forms of pollution, and setting ambitions high for next year’s climate conference in paris.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is a shame that we have given our commissioners such little time on what is a key issue for european citizens and the rest of the world. as chair of the committee on development, i will limit myself to the issues in west africa and leave the issues concerning europe to my colleagues from the committee on the environment. commissioner georgieva, you have talked about efforts having been stepped up since we last met in september here in the plenary, and that is good, but you have also given us some dreadful figures. it is good that you met today as a council and it is good that we have the pledges, but what worries me is that the big ngos on the ground, like msf, oxfam and unicef, are telling me that they are not feeling that effort on the ground – that we are talking about it and pledging money but that nothing is changing for them. my question is: when will this change? have you got a grid with all these commitments? is there a list of when the medical facilities are going to open? who is going to staff them? do we know which countries have pledged which doctors and healthcare professionals? on medevac, we keep hearing good news from the commission, but healthcare professionals tell me that it is not happening on the ground. if you have that information, could you share it with parliament, as it is extremely important. we have a window until christmas, as you have said. we do not want 10 000 cases a week. we have got to get this short-term crisis under control and then look at the lessons to be learned, and that is what the committee on development will be doing, under the guidance of mr goerens. finally, i would just like to thank commissioner borg, on what is probably his last appearance here in plenary, for all the work he has done on health over many, many years. commissioner georgieva, you will be here in a different capacity, and we also look forward to working with you.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as the fragile health care systems of sierra leone and liberia struggle to cope with the outbreak of ebola, we today saw the death toll tragically passing the four and a half thousand level. so far the number of cases beyond west africa has been limited and it is extremely important for strict eu-wide measures to be adopted to ensure that this remains the case. the introduction of screening processes at eu airports and border control points is a vital step and the eu must therefore do more to encourage all member states to follow the leading examples set by france and the united kingdom in this regard. protecting our own shores alone, however, is insufficient and more must be done to support efforts, including exit screening in west africa itself. nigeria is a clear success story to be studied, as it has managed to contain the virus after its first known case. this success was largely thanks to the efficient process of contact-tracing that was implemented: a process which made it possible for over 800 known contacts of the patient to be identified, traced and tested. such work requires relatively strong institutions, efficient cooperation between them and the resources to make that happen. these are all things that, sadly, west africa is largely lacking and it is an area where the eu can be of assistance. as a british doctor, i am proud that the british royal navy is en route to the region as we speak, taking medical equipment, personnel and helicopters by way of assistance. with just under 200 doctors and around 2 000 nurses in sierra leone and liberia combined – the two countries that is – the support from the medical contingent within that mission will be a great asset. with this in mind it is interesting to note that there are currently 108 nurses from sierra leone working in the british national health service and it is at times like this that we see the difficulties that countries suffering from so-called medical brain drain can face. in the longer term it is key that the eu also continues to financially support the pharma industry to work for an effective vaccine for ebola.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you for your comments, and i agree with each and every one of you who has said we have to do more. now is the time to do it. what specifically have we been doing in the last weeks? first, on medical evacuation: we have a contract with three commercial providers, two for the so-called dry cases and one for the so-called wet cases. we can evacuate three international workers per week. clearly, if we have a surge of medical capacity, this is not going to be enough, and for that reason we are doing two more things. one, we are working with the member states to have a coordinated pool, with the united kingdom, germany and italy already identifying capacity (by the way, germany is refurbishing a plane specifically for that right now, and other countries like luxembourg and france are likely to also join). so our pool of predictable medical evacuation capacity will be based on more than just the commission’s three a week, and that is what we would be delivering for the safety of health workers. secondly, we are working to have, in the countries affected, high-quality medical care. the uk in sierra leone, france in guinea and the united states in liberia are already setting up medical capabilities. the uk told us to guarantee 4 000 workers; in other words, they would have a bed proportionate to risk to 4 000 international workers, and similar proportions are being built in liberia and in guinea. we are also very specifically identifying and delivering an increase of bed capacity as well as calibrating training for the volunteers who would like to go. even military personnel which the uk is deploying have to go to very specific training to be sure that they can face the risks and not cause more trouble than they are bringing down, and this is a very massive operation. our contribution from the commission is both in terms of coordinating and providing in-kind assistance on a very massive scale, and i know people say: where is it? but ask unicef and they will tell you where it is. actually only one point i would respectfully disagree on is with everybody who says: what you are in the commission doing? this started on 21 march. we were the first – ask unicef about it – to fund actions against ebola. for months and months we were trying to get attention drawn to this crisis, but it became visible only when it showed up on the six o’clock news. so my plea as outgoing commissioner is: listen to the voices of the humanitarian community in crises, because we are like the canary in the mind. we smell trouble before the rest of the world gets to see it. finally, i very much support everybody who spoke about root causes of this problem. why is nigeria doing better? why is senegal doing better? because they have better health systems and, of course, in nigeria we also had 50 international us experts coming to help. but it was the country itself being more capable. uprooting what causes this tragedy is what we need to do with our systematic development work. there is no point treating people with ebola or saving them from malaria if they are going to die from lack of safe drinking water. i know we have a great incoming commissioner to take over on this task.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would first of all like to reply to some of the criticism when the commission said that the risk of the disease spreading in europe remains low. first of all, it is not only the commission that said that but also the world health organisation. and the choice of words was specific: not that we will not have cases, but that the risk of it spreading once there is a case inside the european union remains low. in fact, until now there has been only one case of a secondary infection – that is to say, of a person who has never set foot in africa and still got the disease – and because it was isolated – i am referring to the case in spain and, thank god, she is on the way to recovery – it was an isolated one and did not spread. so, i do not want the words of the commission to be misinterpreted in any way. one person criticised saying: why did you not introduce screening at point of entry? first of all, the commission cannot force any member state to introduce screening of any kind; that is a sovereign decision for the member states. along with minister lorenzin from italy, i convened an informal meeting of health ministers which 21 health ministers attended. there were divergent views amongst the member states; most of them were against introducing entry screening even though i gave the advice that it was good to consider entry screening. some were opposed to entry screening and then introduced it five days later. but, it is not within my competence to order any screening at the airport. so what we did, as there was no consensus, was to enhance the exit screening in these countries in africa. as to the external dimension, which commissioner georgieva has spoken about: of course the external and internal dimensions are not mutually exclusive because by containing the disease in africa, one is not only doing the right thing, because we have a moral obligation in that regard, but we are also protecting ourselves. only three weeks ago, the who was requesting half a billion euros from the entire world. the european union alone has already allocated half a billion euros – eur 180 million from european funds and eur 320 from the member states. i will conclude with this, to show i think it is unfair: we should not enter into some masochistic exercise of saying ‘europe is not doing anything’, because it is doing a lot. whether we should do more is another question, but we have already done a lot.
, in writing.– it is estimated that the cost of the necessary actions on ebola worldwide would be just usd 600 million (http://www.unfoundation.org/news-and-media/press-releases/2014/ebola-response-fund-who.html). this is equivalent to what the uk spends every 2-3 weeks in foreign aid, which is often mis-spent and given to countries with nuclear or space programmes or even to countries in the g20. the longer we leave this crisis, the more costly it will be to deal with. individual countries could and should be doing far more to respond to the ebola crisis than we are doing at the moment. lives are at risk; this is a time for compassion and real assistance not mere words.
in writing. – the ebola crisis threatens not just a humanitarian tragedy but the breakdown of a number of already vulnerable states, creating fertile ground for extremist and militarist forces which have already proven they are more than able to expand into vacuums of authority. i met with the excellent médecins sans frontières last week and have nothing but praise for their work in tough circumstances. sixteen 16 of their staff have already become infected and ten of those have died – people trying to help and assist. we as europe have no shortage of organisations with expertise and people willing to put themselves in harmʼs way, but we have lacked the political will to get involved. we need to do so urgently and provide real support to those organisations already on the ground. in particular we must reassure volunteers that there will be a coordinated eu medevac procedure, and that the operation will be properly financed. we have a humanitarian duty to intervene, but we have a selfish motivation too. if we allow ebola to destroy such governmental authority as exists, we will see hostile regimes take their place.
blue-card question. – my question is this. speaking about youth unemployment particularly, and youth guarantees, would not the best guarantee for that youth be that they are not saddled for generations with massive amounts of debt caused by the addiction to over-spending by our current political elite? would it not be better to give them, the future generations, a dynamic, low-taxation, fair-taxation economy where they can work hard and excel and make the future far better than our present?
blue-card question. – i am actually here to represent the uk and not the rest of europe. what we have seen in the uk is really high youth unemployment. we have got nearly one million people unemployed. that is unacceptable. and that is because of the fundamental principle of this place, of the free movement of people, which is driving wages down and unemployment up in my country, do you not agree?
blue-card question. – i agree that young people are the losers when everyone bickers, but can we accept that ‘one size fits all’ does not always work? can we accept that the needs of one country can be different from the needs of another? of course we should be doing more to get our young people back into work, but could that not be done far better by the member states themselves, directly on the things that they know about, if this were taken out of the eu budget and given back to the member states to help young people themselves?
blue-card question. – madam president, it seems to me that you are all following the mindset of that great philosopher, homer. i am not speaking about the ancient greek poet but the american cartoon character, homer simpson, when he said ‘a fool and his money are soon parted – i will pay good money to have that one explained to me’. speaking as a small businessman, does my colleague not accept that the best way to stimulate employment and the economy is to have a bonfire of regulations, in distinct contradiction to the outpourings from the european institutions?
mr president, once again i stand here before a committee that is committed to the european union, to ever closer union, and fails to accept that the european union has failed and failed dismally. it has failed the youth of europe, where currently unemployment is at an average of 23.3%. it has failed the youth of greece, where unemployment for youth is 57.7%. there is an average unemployment across the eurozone of 16.8%. this is the success of the euro according to friends on the other side of the chamber. we have gnp and gdp falling year on year; productivity levels lower; the highest suicide rates that nations across europe have ever known. there is poverty, people living in the streets. this is the europe that you regard as a dream. this is the europe that you think is a success. well, tell the people who are losing their children by leaving their countries that it is a success. tell the people who are unemployed that it is a success. there is nothing that this chamber nor you as meps, nor the commission or the council can do that will help these people except one thing. that is allowing the european union to break up, to remove the euro, to make sure that countries can run themselves and control themselves once more. wake up and recognise the euro is a failure.
mr president, it is disappointing that member states have a poor uptake of the country-specific recommendations. however, the low uptake of csrs should not result in measures which, if made binding recommendations, would effectively force member states to follow a centralised plan for their country’s economic development. we need to consider whether the fault lies with the member states for failing to embrace helpful actions or whether the csrs are less useful than the commission implies. when you assess the ability of public bodies to forecast, compared to private forecasting for economic data, the commission does not come out well. neither does the imf. they are typically ranked in the bottom quartile, while banks and fund analysts dominate the top. i, therefore – like many – need convincing that the indicators that the commission is using are correct and are appropriately tailored to the specifics of each country. the european semester should remain a plan of mutual respect and not a centralised plan that cannot take into account real economic activity.
mr president, i think there are a lot of us in this house who consider that the real failure has not necessarily been that of the european union, but governments’ failure to control financial institutions, and that action on that needs cross-border agreements. we have heard as well in this debate about the effect of the crisis on the future generations. i think that is why, for us, it is also important to integrate not only the social dimension, but also the ecological dimension in our response because otherwise we are not really dealing with the problem in the round. people have also talked in this debate about ownership. it is not just our parliament and national parliaments. i think we also need to be looking much more at the engagement of social partners – and indeed civil society – within this process, given that the reforms are supposed to be for the benefit of the people. so is the commission going to bring forward guidelines for the engagement of civil society in the semester process?
mr president, for me it is clear. the focus of the eu semester needs to be shifted if we are to come out of the crisis and create growth. we will not create jobs for millions of unemployed young people by implementing a purely austerity agenda. it is not just me who is saying this: many international institutions and well-known economists have stated that we need to move to smart investments. i welcome the commission’s investment package but we also need to look at reforms to create jobs and tackle tax evasion, plus macroeconomic imbalances, through the country-specific reports in the future being more regionally oriented. the text adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs is still difficult to accept because of an unnecessary reference to macroeconomic conditionality introduced into the eu structural funds. how does it help member states that are suffering because of certain budgetary rules to lose their structural reform? i hope that the final text that we vote on tomorrow will therefore be more balanced, and that this reference will be taken away so that i can fully support it.
mr president, we do not just need more jobs, we need better jobs. of course there is a jobs crisis in the eu, but there is also a skills crisis and a quality crisis. what there is not is a flexibility crisis or a price crisis. the sector of the economy with the worst unemployment is precisely the sector with the highest so-called flexibility and the worst conditions – the sector of zero hours contracts, of bogus self-employment and of perpetual part-time temporary agency contracts. so if these mechanisms are – as we are asked to believe – a necessary tool for employers to get people into the labour market and keep people in the labour market, then they do not work. in which case, can i ask the commission why none of these issues are in the country-specific recommendations?
mr president, it is really good to see everyone coming in. they have missed an hour of the most undemocratic thing i have ever seen, where we have heard all this talk: socialist dreams about all the extra spending the eu is going to do; no one allowed to question; no debate in the chamber; our voices silenced. our voices will not be silenced. they will only get louder and louder. i am glad you are all back from the bars or the tofu bar or wherever you have been, because now you can hear what is really going on. the british people do not stand by what is happening here. this is a disgrace, and your economic ideas are of the past – previous centuries. the future for our country lies free of your strange economic delusions; our country lies outside the eu and outside this farce.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. whilst in brussels last week, sf’s martin mcguinness had very positive discussions with both the chair of the european parliament’s committee on the budget and the head of operations at the european globalisation adjustment fund. i was pleased to hear from european officials that they are ‘open’ to the prospects of ballymena’s jti gallagher plant in the north of ireland benefiting from the globalization adjustment fund to assist workers facing redundancy. martin mcguinness dfm strongly made the case that gallagher’s clearly falls into the remit of this fund, which aims to help people who lose their jobs as a direct result of global market trends. what we were told was that the onus is on the british government to submit a bid for assistance or to delegate responsibility to the northern executive to do so. martin mcguiness will work with his colleague peter robinson in an effort to get a joint approach to the british government so that the delegated authority is secured. this is an opportunity to do something tangible to help workers at gallagher’s, and the goodwill expressed by key decision-makers in europe must be pursued.
in writing. - the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people in the comunidad valenciana, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. - i voted against this application for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money. there is no evidence that it offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market.
in writing. we must face up to reality and tell the citizens that these huge sums of money, spent solely on subsidies, do not generate wealth, productivity or hope. the only thing they produce are economies destined to fail and societies lulled by the overprotective state. i am not against helping people, but i am against treating people like cattle, which are fed and not disturbed. we must encourage creativity and creation, not the european paternalism of 'money makes everything go well', because that will not create the right framework for these people to create a new life for themselves.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support providing assistance for the reintegration into employment of around 300 redundant workers who lost their jobs due to the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. - i supported this proposal as a legitimate use of the globalisation adjustment fund. the spanish authorities argue that the metal products sector is a key provider of inputs to a wide range of manufacturing activities, in particular the shipbuilding, construction and automotive sectors. all of these were significantly impacted across the european union by the economic crisis, as previously recognised by the commission and its services.
in writing. – i welcome the fact that parliament today approved eu aid to help 300 spanish workers made redundant. the eur 1 019 184 in egf aid approved by parliament will support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 142 enterprises operating in the manufacture of fabricated metal products, except machinery and equipment. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers receive none of this support therefore.
in writing. - i voted against this report today, i am opposed in principle to the use of this european globalisation adjustment fund and as a result i cannot support this proposal to mobilise it.
in writing. - the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen - in this case, at regional or national level. therefore these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should or should not be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people in genk, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. - i voted against this application for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money. there is no evidence that it offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance for the reintegration into employment of 479 redundant workers who lost their jobs due to globalisation and a rapid decline of the euʼs market share in the production of passenger cars.
in writing. - i support this proposal. the belgian authorities argue that the closure of the ford plant in genk will, apart from this first wave of redundancies, cause two other waves of redundancies expected to occur in 2014 of 650 and 4 000 dismissals. these redundancies will have a serious impact on employment and the local economy the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded includes the following measures for the reintegration of 479 redundant workers into employment (grouped by category): (1) job-search assistance (key account manager, social intervention advisor, information on vocational education and training options, active job-oriented guidance), and (2) training and re-training (vocational training courses, employment through individual vocational training, application training)
in writing. - thanks to today’s vote belgium was granted egf aid to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in the assembly plant of ford-werke gmbh located in genk (‘ford genk’) and in 10 suppliers of ford genk in belgium due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the €570 945 in aid will pay for job search assistance and training and re-training to help 479 workers get back into employment. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. - i voted against this report today, as i am opposed in principle to the use of this european globalisation adjustment fund and, as a result, i cannot support this proposal to mobilise it.
in writing. - the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case, at regional or national level. therefore these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should or should not be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people in belgium, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. - i voted against this application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money. there is no evidence that it offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support providing assistance for the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers who lost their jobs as a result of globalisation and a rapid decline of the union’s market share in the production sector for continuously-cast crude steel.
in writing. - i supported this package. decrease in demand in steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu as a consequence of the economic crisis and a relative increase of production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.) – these factors have harmed the competiveness of the eu’s steel industry and have led to a high number of job losses in the steel sector in recent years due to plant closures and restructuring by several steel manufacturers in europe. for instance, between 2008 and 2013, the number of persons employed in the metallurgic industry (nace rev. 2 division 24 ‘manufacture of basic metals’) in the eu-27 decreased by around 280 000 from 1.44 million to 1.16 million (− 19.4 %).
in writing. - i welcome today’s vote on the mobilisation of the egaf to support the reintegration in the labour market of belgian workers made redundant in the production plant of carsid sa (‘carsid’). it concerns 939 redundancies in carsid sa, located at marcinelle near charleroi in belgium. a total amount of eur 911 934 in egaf aid will support 752 workers targeted for egaf co-funded measures during the reference period from 28 september 2012 to 28 january 2013. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. - i voted against this report today, as i am opposed in principle to the use of this european globalisation adjustment fund and, as a result, i cannot support this proposal to mobilise it.
in writing. - the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen - in this case, at regional or national level. therefore these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should or should not be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of france, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. - the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. - i voted against this application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money. there is no evidence that it offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support providing assistance for the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers who lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. - i welcome this application. the french authorities argue that the redundancies have a significant adverse impact on the local and regional economy in the affected areas. in agreement with the relevant public authorities, the company has carried out regional impact studies for the areas around the aulnay and rennes plants. in its commune, the aulnay plant was the 8th largest employer, and the redundancies reduce the numbers employed in the area by 13.6 %. the reduction is less steep in rennes, but it must be noted that this area has already been affected by a general economic decline, with the number of unemployed in brittany as a whole doubling within the past five years
in writing. - i welcome that today the european parliament approved eu aid to help support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in peugeot citroën automobiles. the eur 12 704 605 of egf aid concerns 2 357 out of 6 120 workers made redundant in peugeot citroën automobiles, with the redundancies mainly occurring in the rennes and aulnay plants. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. - i voted against this report today as i am opposed in principle to the use of this european globalisation adjustment fund and, as a result, i cannot support this proposal to mobilise it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the european conservative reformists are a group that prefers to look forward, not back to the past. while my group has not always seen eye-to-eye with mr barroso on a number of different issues, with his commission there have been times when we have been able to find common ground. so, mr barroso, as you look forward to your next role may i, on behalf of our group, wish you all the best and your commissioners all the best for the future. as you yourself said, your commission has been a commission of crises, not all of them your fault. your first term began with an institutional crisis, after the french and the dutch voted to reject the european constitution. but instead of listening to the very real concerns expressed by voters in two of the founding member states, instead of lifting your eyes from the institutional navel gazing, the commission resurrected and repackaged the constitution as the lisbon treaty, under a new guise. your second term was marked by a financial crisis and a banking crisis and then a currency crisis and a debt crisis. these changed the political agenda and consumed much time and energy. but despite a slew of financial regulation over the last five years, we are still in a position where some banks are considered too big to fail and we have not ended taxpayer bailouts. given the scale of the eurozone crisis at times, it would have been better if you have could have been more open. we know you can be open. after all, you have been very open with the british people in the last few days, and in the same way that you have said what you think about freedom of movement, in the same way that you have been clear what membership of the eu entails, will you now be open with the taxpayers of germany, the netherlands, finland and other richer eurozone countries about what euro membership entails? will you be open that the only way to sustain the eurozone in the long-term is fiscal transfers from the richer countries to the poorer economies of the eurozone, probably forever? these crises are enormous and are not over and we will have long-term consequences for years to come, but these crises are a symptom of a larger crisis, and that is dealing with global competitiveness. but there are people who are deeply worried about being left behind; left behind as leaders come to brussels to pursue political integration; left behind as our share of the world economy shrinks; left behind as too many of the political elite look back to the past rather than forward to the future. at times we have agreed with you on the services directive, free trade agreements and measures to pursue the completion of the single market. but it is time that we look at how we help businesses grow. instead of creating more red tape, ask entrepreneurs what stops them from creating new jobs. instead of environmental targets, ask companies what makes them greener and more environmentally friendly. instead of rules which ban investors from investing outside the eu, ask them what encourages them to invest in start-ups. so while i think it is fair to say that your commission has not always had the chance to look forward, i also think it is fair to say that we hope that the next commission will be in a position to sometimes take a step back, focus on the bigger picture and face the challenges of the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president. well, mr barroso, for ten years we have been trading blows in this parliament, and indeed i am the only person on today’s list of speakers who was involved ten years ago. i have found you – i have to say for the vast majority of that time – to be very civil, but often bemused by what i have had to say and by events in europe as they have unfolded. in fact, i remember the first speech i gave. you presented your new commission, and i pointed out to you that your nominee from france, monsieur jacques barrot, was a convicted embezzler who had received a two-year suspended prison sentence and had been barred from public office. to my shock, at that moment you simply showed in your face that you had no idea that it was true, but of course it was. perhaps that comes from your early days as an active student maoist, when you believed in big ideas but did not perhaps have much to do with practical reality. i have enjoyed much of what you have said over the years. indeed, i particularly enjoyed you the day after ireland – the only country indeed that had a referendum on the lisbon treaty – had voted ‘no’ to lisbon. you stood up and said that the irish did not really mean ‘no’. i particularly enjoyed that. i also enjoyed you saying that the european union was the first ever non-imperial empire, because in that you showed so much of what this project has now become. i do not think that anybody doubts that those who got together in the 1950s after two ruinous world wars with the genuine intention of getting the french and germans to sit around a table in order to talk together and to trade together were doing the right thing. but it has morphed and changed into something else, and it is your analogy to an empire that has led to the current failure. it is the expansion to allow in more and more countries; it is the expansion of the eurozone to let in mediterranean countries which should have never have joined in the first place and which are now suffering so horribly. so i view you as a fantasist, but at no point have i ever, ever implied that you were dishonest. you are not. you are very honest indeed. i remember you telling martin callanan, who led the conservative group here for some time while the conservative party under david cameron’s leadership became more eurosceptic with each british parliamentary by-election, not to try to be like ukip because the voters will go for the real thing. and you were right. we won the european elections. but thank you for last sunday, thank you for appearing on british television, thank you for confirming that the real fantasist is not you – it is david cameron. the british prime minister who pretends that we can restrict free movement and remain members of the european union. you made it clear that he was wrong and that he was deceiving the british people. you made it clear that you were the boss and not him, and for that i thank you and wish you a very happy retirement indeed.
mr president, i have a point of order under the rules of procedure. the procedure is chapter 2, rule 123 in relation to statements by the commission. it relates to part of paragraph 1 and all of paragraph 2. if the president of the commission makes a statement, when that statement is placed on the agenda before a debate, it is an option for the parliament to have a wind-up debate on a resolution. i have such a resolution in my hand. in that resolution, if parliament decides to wind up a debate with a resolution, there must be a committee or a political group of at least 40 names. i have the signatures of 56 names of members of this parliament to present in terms of that resolution. (applause from certain quarters on the right) the resolution will state that under the presidency of barroso, the euro has initiated or contributed to the crisis in europe and contributed with misguided austerity policies ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. – during mr barroso’s term of office yet more powers have been transferred from nation states to the eu. i would like to highlight one particular area which is both topical and highly dangerous and concerns europol, the eu's emergent police force. in a recent bbc radio interview, mr troels oerting, the head of europol’s cybercrime centre, revealed that ‘most of the world’s cybercrime originates from russia’, that he is ‘increasingly happy’ with europol’s ‘cooperation’ with russia’s ‘law-enforcement authorities’, and that he recently visited moscow and agreed to share information with them on a number of ‘interesting cases’. this is an extraordinary statement given that in russia it is impossible to distinguish between organised crime and the so-called law enforcement agencies. meanwhile, a respected internet security company isight has uncovered a massive russian cyber-espionage campaign against western governments and nato. this is at a time when the british parliament is on the verge of voting to permanently transfer yet more powers to the eu on policing and criminal justice matters. it is utter madness to share sensitive information with russia, which is a gangster state, and seriously puts at risk our security and the protection of our citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we welcome the fact that the european council will consider climate and energy policies alongside economic recovery. it is nonsensical to consider them separately. a healthy economy needs low-cost energy. europe does not have it. since 2005, energy prices in europe have risen by 38%. in the usa, they have fallen by 4%, creating tough decisions for households, but also for companies, and stalling economic growth. climate and energy policy must be for the long term. it should not be based on short-term reactions. we need long-term thinking, and we need to work with industry, not against it. if we are to achieve a workable policy, it is time to put aside this ideological debate between whether or not you agree with one group of climate scientists or another group of climate scientists. surely it is time to find common ground. surely it is time that we find those areas on which we agree. surely this is the sort of chamber where different groups can come together. surely we can agree on less pollution. surely we can agree on less waste in landfill. surely we can agree on less dependence on unpleasant regimes, whether in russia or in the middle east. but we can also agree on more. we can agree on more renewable energy. we can agree on more energy efficiency and more conservation, and we can agree on more energy security. so let us put aside those differences and work together. but we have to take a step back and ask the fundamental question: in a modern, digital economy, with high-speed rail and electric cars, what will provide that energy? wind? yes. solar? of course. wave energy? yes. but is that truly enough? therefore the question – and my question particularly to your group, my green friends – is what fills in the gaps? some people will say nuclear, but the greens say no. some say clean coal. the greens say no. some say shale, but the greens say no. so we have to answer this fundamental question. blue card me if you have an answer. if not, we will have an energy policy that might emit less co2, but we will also have power cuts, companies moving production outside the eu and even higher levels of unemployment. so surely here the key is pragmatism, not setting climate targets which are unreachable and which drive industry out of the eu. let us not forget that the eu by 2030 will only account for 4.5% of global emissions. we cannot have a ‘little european’ mentality. we have to work with the rest of the world. a solution will not necessarily be from a multinational. it might well be found in someone’s garage by the bill gates or the steve jobs of the energy world. that is why we need to be pro-market, not necessarily pro-big business. let us cut the red tape and arbitrary targets that crush these start-up companies at the start. otherwise, we will never solve this challenge. it is time to reclaim the green agenda for those who believe that being green and pro-growth are two sides of the same coin. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am very pleased that you asked me that question. we might actually get some sense and common ground in this debate. it is quite clear. instead of politicians, the commission or national governments trying to pick winners, leave it to the market. the market will decide which will provide us with the sustainable energy for the future. yes, i agree with you; let us not subsidise nuclear. i agree with you; let us not subsidise solar or wind. let the innovators come forward and meet those challenges, and you and i might find ourselves on the same side in the debate.
blue-card question. – i come from an area in the west midlands called dudley, and there are pensioners there who, last year, told me they could not afford to have the heating on. they were struggling, having to sit with blankets on them. they were desperate. i have noted what you were saying about the triple lock, and your agenda going further for co2 emissions reduction, etc., but what would you say to those pensioners, who this winter will be so cold that many of them might even die?
mr president, i would like to address my remarks to the council presidency about the summit and ebola. it is good that you want to show leadership on this issue, but we now need to turn the pledges into action – into beds and specialised medical personnel on the ground. every member state needs to play its part and i hope you will be asking on thursday and friday for pledges from member states and that you will keep a grid of who is doing what and when things are getting done. we must all be coordinated through the eu and that has to really happen this time because on the ground the ngos are telling us – i am the chair of the committee on development – that they are not feeling the effects on the ground. we have to break the logjam on the medevac. it needs to be sorted out by the leaders of the eu. finally, everything that you have heard on climate change is extremely important. we are going to paris next year. the whole world is watching. i met the american ambassador today. we talked about this. we need to get a deal on thursday that is credible, with a binding target. otherwise we are not going to be leaders in the world. so please, show leadership, make sure we get a deal, make sure we tackle the real underlying issues on ebola and then the citizens of europe will believe that the eu can tackle the big problems facing our societies.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr president, thanks to colleagues from across the political spectrum for their cooperation on the imco committee’s 2015 budget opinion. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the secretariat, and in particular elena, for her knowledge, advice and guidance when we had just two weeks to timetable this opinion. for the imco committee, the new reality of the digital single market has focused minds and led us to prioritise the links between smes and consumer rights as it applies online. i was delighted to see the budget committee support my proposal for a pilot project to support smes in fulfilling their obligations to consumers when selling online. the commissioner-designate for the digital single market, andrus ansip, said that trust is critical to citizens choosing to purchase online. we also know that the online environment is critical to sme growth markets, where reaching 500 million eu customers has huge potential. in this house, we need to make the digital single market work for both consumers and smes.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. - mr president, i hope most members in the chamber recognise the importance of eu regional policy and funds. all our regions benefit from eu structural funds. for example, most infrastructure and training schemes in wales are at least partly funded by the european union. therefore, eu regional funds play an important, indeed vital, part in trying to improve economic prosperity right across the eu. i therefore find it difficult to understand any proposal to cut european structural funds. the committee on regional development was particularly concerned about the eur 23 billion backlog in payments and the impact this will have on local authorities, businesses, universities and young people. in the uk alone, there is gbp 1.2 billion of backlogs in terms of payments. therefore, the committee on regional development believes the budget for heading 1b should at least be restored to the draft budget. we call on the council to accept this as soon as possible and to accept the draft amending budgets which are proposed as well. we call on beneficiaries who are concerned about delays in payments they face to make their views known to member states, because if they will not listen to us, perhaps they will listen to voters.
mr president, the group standing up for democracy in this parliament is back. democracy will not be silenced. i do not intend to give a speech so much as to ask members a few questions about their consciences and about how they are going to vote, in the light of the payments problem, and the fact that the european union is currently spending money which it does not have. we do not need tax payers to pay for cruelty to animals. will you vote to scrap eu subsidies for bullfighting? at a time of austerity we do not need a self-aggrandising museum. will you vote to scrap the house of history? will you vote to scrap the gentleman’s agreement between the parliament, council and commission that keeps costs for all three high? will we vote to cut our own salaries and allowances? will we vote to scrap funding for europarl tv? i am going to vote in line with the wishes of my constituents, not in line with the wishes of the euro elite. will you do the same? sadly, for many in this place, i think i already know the answer.
mr president, i welcome the juncker proposals to increase spending on jobs and growth, but unless that extra spending is matched by cuts in inefficient programmes and greater strategic prioritisation, then 12 months from now we will be seeing a bigger pile of unpaid bills and ever-increasing rows. it is the member states who, on the one hand, have the responsibility for spending 80% of the budget and who, on the other hand, restrict the size of the budget. i am not calling for a bigger budget – council was right to cap revenue – but i am insisting that there is an urgent need for greater budgetary discipline and control. if we do not, our payments problem will only get worse. furthermore, should the three institutions prove themselves incapable of exercising that control, should the commitments budget prove to be in excess of funding available, or should this budget place the budgetary authority in an unlawful position, is it not time that we came to consider the establishment of an independent office of budgetary responsibility?
in writing. – european projects deliver benefits for all eu citizens. often these projects are more effective than 28 separate projects spread across the union. they deliver added value for people, communities and industry. together with my labour colleagues we voted for the eu to do more of what it is good at - delivering jobs and growth across europe. these european projects include the north west evergreen fund in manchester which has received gbp 19 million in european regional development fund (erdf) funding to date and the chrysalis fund operating across merseyside which has so far invested gbp 30 million of erdf. we also voted for the eu to meet its external commitments. the eu acts on our behalf in a number of external areas: whether this is supporting peace projects in gaza or northern ireland, helping to combat ebola in africa or working with pro-democracy groups in ukraine, the eu acts to help deliver peace and security right across the globe. these are areas where we are able to work together to achieve more than the sum of our parts, where the eu makes a real difference and i am proud that labour meps stood together and supported the eu in these areas.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we must constantly keep in mind that, as members of the european union, we have signed up to a core set of democratic principles and rights. we must all operate under an umbrella of respect for democracy and the rule of law. if just one of us neglects those principles, then of course it reflects badly upon all of us. freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom to protest are all rights that should never be restricted. yet very little is achieved through lecturing one another. far more progress can be made through a dialogue which is constructive and cooperative. more will always be achieved by offering solutions, not just criticisms. i hope, therefore, that our new commission vice-president-elect responsible for the rule of law, mr timmermans, will provide a clear and direct link between member states and fundamental rights within the eu. this house is entitled to all of its varied and many opinions but i personally believe, as a lawyer, that alleged wrongdoings should be examined with a clear mind and always with fairness and respect. we here should be a platform for examination, debate and, most of all, for solutions – but it is not the european union’s function to be both judge and jury in this matter.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, when we agreed these temporary autonomous measures for ukraine back in the spring, it was on the assumption that the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement would enter into force by next month. as the commissioner has just reminded us, after the historic simultaneous signing by the european parliament and the ukrainian parliament, this has been delayed until 2016. the proposal today, therefore, is not for new measures but for an extension of existing measures, and that is why my group has been able to support an accelerated procedure and why we will not support any amendments to this text. if we do not approve this on thursday, there will be a gap in preferences when the current trade regime with ukraine expires at the beginning of november. my group will not accept a delay in the entry into force of this regulation. it would send the wrong signal to the people of ukraine if we wilfully stood in the way of european solidarity and support as they struggle to re-establish democracy and economic stability. when these trade measures were first proposed they did not include a human rights clause. however, this new proposal from the commission has taken on board the demand from the socialist and democratic group that it should include a human rights clause, and for that reason, and for the reason of urgency, we will support this regulation unamended on thursday.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr juncker very much for his presentation today. mr juncker, i wonder if i could just start by pointing to three things that you mentioned in your speech. first of all, you described yourself as ‘the big loser’. if i were you, i would not be so harsh on yourself. secondly, you hit the nail on the head when it came to the debate on what some call public investment and what others call debt. we need to resolve this issue. we need to make sure that we learn the lesson that you simply cannot spend more money than you have got. you simply cannot ask taxpayers for money they have not got, and we need to make sure that we have financial responsibility. thirdly, we welcome your announcement that luxembourg should perhaps propose a female commissioner for the next term. we look forward to the return of astrid lulling in this chamber. yesterday we debated the legacy of president barroso, and we looked back at his commission and we called his commission a commission of crisis. what will we say about your commission in five years’ time? in our group, we will ask: did the juncker commission lift its eyes from the institutional naval-gazing and look to the world beyond europe to see those competitive economies? our group will ask: did the juncker commission tackle the important issues of energy security and the digital single market and pursue open trade; and did the juncker commission face up to the challenges of the future rather than looking back to the past? as an open and democratic group, the ecr had a number of discussions about this commission – in fact, probably more than i would like to mention – but that is part of being an open and transparent democratic group. so, as we cast our vote today, let me share with you some of our concerns, but also some of the things that we like about your commission. first of all, let us be positive. we welcome the fact that the structure does not look like desperately seeking 27 places for 27 people. we like the fact that you have torn down the silos and have come up with an integrated structure focused on outcomes. that is a positive plan: it is a plan for action. we like the fact that you are looking to cut red tape and to complete the digital single market; and that you are looking at energy, the economy and competitiveness. we are impressed by some of your appointments. we like the fact, for example, that the gentleman next to you, mr timmermans, asked the question, ‘does europe need to do all this?’ surely at times it is best to leave it to the member states. do we really need this regulation? thirdly, some members in my group feel that you have offered a genuine olive branch to us, and we hope that both sides face up to the challenge of grasping that olive branch as we look forward to working with you over the next five years. but i have to say we are also disappointed. we are disappointed that you did not support parliament’s request for a budget control commissioner. we see the appointment of a french socialist, given their record on the stability and growth pact, as a mistake. it is rather like putting an alcoholic in charge of a wine bar. you might say that it is like putting a houdini or an escapologist in charge of a prison. it might lead to better security, but it will also lead some people to say: if he can escape and get out of it, so can we. some of our national delegations did not like some of the people appointed because of their record in their home member state, but we know that the process is over. we know the deal has been done. we know that the large groups will vote for your commission. our group will not join this cosy consensus. we will abstain. as you get down to work, where you pursue reform, we will work with you and your commission; and where you look back to the past, we will confront you with the challenges of the future. there is much work to do, and we wish you well. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, as mr juncker presents his new commission this morning he is telling us that they are all in the last chance saloon. well, i tell you what, mr juncker, i will come and see you there, but you are going to have to introduce me to them because this is very much a bunch of nonentities, unknown. i spoke to meps this morning who will be voting later, and most of them could not even name half of them. the one from britain is so obscure that his name is lord hill but it should be lord ‘who?’! the british public could not pick the bloke out of a line-up! he has never been elected to anything in his life – which means he is perfect for the job. i do not think that the european public or commentators understand what the european commission really is. the commission is the executive. it is the government of europe and it has the sole right to propose legislation. it does so in consultation with 3 000 secret committees, staffed mainly by big business and big capital, and all the legislation is proposed in secret. once something becomes a european law, it is the european commission itself which has the sole right to propose, repeal or change that legislation. the community method which was championed this morning, the means by which the european commission makes law and holds law, is actually the very enemy of the concept of democracy itself. it means that in any member state there is nothing the electorate can do to change a single piece of european law. so we will be voting against the commission today, not on the basis of the individuals, but on the basis of the fact that it is a fundamentally un-, in fact, anti-democratic form of government. i suspect you are in for a tough time with this commission. you are going to have the euro crisis which has not gone away and is going to get worse. you are also going to have the uk debate where it has now become unacceptable to the vast majority of british citizens for there to be total free movement of people extended to half a billion people to come to britain. mr cameron masquerades as being an eu opponent, though i note this morning that the conservatives are so brave that they are even going to abstain. i think this will be the last european commission that governs britain, because before the end of these five years we will be out of here.
mr president, on behalf of labour’s meps, i would like to congratulate mr juncker on his efforts in putting together his commission team. mr juncker, i have to say, however, that i thought your initial decision to move medicines and medical devices to the industry portfolio was completely unacceptable. people’s health must come first, so i am delighted that you have listened to our concerns and reversed your decision. mr juncker, i am sure you are aware of the magnitude of the job facing your commission: with a europe still struggling to create jobs and growth; a europe still faced with the consequences of climate change; a europe where people are turning their backs on mainstream politics in favour of the extremes. it is easy to see why many people say the eu is in crisis. this commission has the opportunity to turn the tide – to take a different approach – so here are a few suggestions. revise the posting of workers directive and stop the exploitation of migrant workers and the undercutting of local pay and conditions. take action to protect people from the scourge of precarious employment practices such as zero-hours contracts. tackle excessively high energy prices across the eu. and get our young people into work. mr juncker, this commission cannot just defend the status quo. europe is a force for good in the world but it could be so much better. it will need leadership and courage to make the change we need. that is the challenge. mr juncker, are you up for it?
mr president, a point of order on the order of points. rule 174, paragraph 2: ‘if two or more mutually-exclusive amendments have been tabled to the same part of a text, the amendment that departs the furthest from the original text shall have priority and shall be put to the vote first’. here, the first amendment merely moves money from one pot of money to another, moving it to the european external action service, but it does not make a penny piece difference to the original budget. our amendment would save taxpayers eur 15 million in commitments and 7 million in payments. it would be a terrible shame if the first amendment were to pass and the second, therefore, were to fall, because the real cost-saving measure would not be heard. so i would respectfully submit that the order of vote should be reversed and that 547 should be taken before 157.
mr president, not for the first time i feel that i am trapped in some kind of time loop here – one of those wormholes out of science fiction. the rest of europe has moved on, but the european commission remains resolutely trapped in the mid-1950s with mr juncker’s paleo-federalism, his plans for a pan-european minimum wage, a european army and police force, european taxation. what has to happen to convince european federalists that there might be a better way? the rest of europe has moved on but still the eurocrats carry on chanting their ancient shamanistic incantations. it is too much integration that created the democratic crisis; it is too much integration that created the financial crisis. and yet our only response is to accelerate, to keep redoubling all of the things that led to the problems in the first place. as my countryman oliver cromwell once put it ‘i beseech you in the bowels of christ, think it possible you may be mistaken.’
in writing. - it is a sad reality that any eu commission and its commissioners are at heart federalist, wishing to advance ‘more europe’ at every opportunity, in working towards ‘ever closer union’ within a political european super-state, and not the democratic interests of national citizens. i abstained in the vote on the commission as it does not make much difference which commission is in force, though clearly some individuals are better than others in terms of merit and attitude. the eu needs root and branch reform, not token opposition within its broken and unsuitable framework.
in writing. - mr jean-claude juncker has not yet shown he is able to deliver real change. i will endorse his commission when i see that change.
in writing. - despite reservations on certain individual commissioners, i voted for the juncker commission. because there is a great urgency to implement actions that address the concerns and needs of eu citizens, we need change and a coordinated approach. therefore, i believe it is in the interest of my constituents that the new commission makes swift progress in drawing up a plan for jobs and growth that establishes how the eur 300 billion promised by mr juncker will be deployed to increase economic investment into our regions. one of the top priorities has to be to skill up our young people and urgently review certain detrimental policies implemented by the outgoing commission.
in writing. - last week i voted in favour of the new european commission. although the british prime minister david cameron originally opposed mr juncker becoming the new president of the commission, the uk is pleased with his commitments, hitherto, to work with member states to ensure the eu focuses its efforts where it is best placed to do so. avoiding needless bureaucracy and interference in areas best dealt with at home must be a cornerstone of a new, reformed eu. given mr juncker’s commitments to better regulation and recognition of member state subsidiarity, i was happy to support the election of the commission, for the period 2014-2019.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this commission, but that does not necessarily mean i am fully in favour of every member in every portfolio. however, the european unionʼs model is based on compromise and i support the commission as a whole while retaining some reservations about particular members. in particular i, along with my colleagues in the s&d group, had serious concerns about the suitability of mr cañete for the position of commissioner responsible for climate action and energy. during the hearing, we heavily questioned him on his links to oil companies and his ability to remain impartial. mr juncker put forward a number of concessions to ease these concerns. he agreed to our groupʼs request to add responsibility for sustainable development to the portfolio of the first vice-president, mr timmermans. it was made clear that this includes responsibility for coordinating policy on climate action and energy. in light of these concessions and supervision, we felt we could support the candidacy of mr cañete. nonetheless, labour meps have made it abundantly clear that we will continue to assess, not just mr cañeteʼs performance, but the performance of the commission as a whole to make sure it is working in the interests of eu citizens.
in writing. - the appointment of a new european commission represents an important opportunity for reform in europe and our group has given a strong input. the two most challenging political priorities for the next commission are to change the direction of europe and to finally take action to boost growth, encourage development and create new jobs. we can proudly say that we have contributed to shaping a new and different commission which is much closer to our values.
in writing. – i backed the election of the commission due to commitments including a eur 300 billion investment plan by february 2015, a relaunch for european industry, a strengthened european youth guarantee, a europe-wide minimum wage, a continued focus on public services, a more democratic structure to replace the troika, the fight against tax evasion and the introduction of a financial transaction tax – all of which are important to our citizens.
in writing. - the european commission is the engine of european integration. its new president, mr juncker, is an unreformed euro-federalist. he restated today his commitment to the ‘community method’ rather than an inter-governmental approach. there is no commitment to fundamental reform, to change, in the way that i and our citizens clearly demand. i cannot therefore support this commission or what it stands for. however, i am optimistic that lord hill, the nominee of the united kingdom, will prove his worth. on this basis, and in keeping with my group whip, i abstained.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the new commission led by jean-claude juncker. the commission received backing from a very large majority of the parliament, and mr junkerʼs own nomination is the direct result of the outcome of the european parliament elections. never before has a commission had more democratic legitimacy and been more accountable. the commission has promised to lead a coordinated policy approach leading to stability, growth and unity for its citizens and member states and we have insisted it cooperates closely with this parliament.
in writing. - i have been very concerned about the nomination of several commissioners-designate whose hearings did not convince me or who did not fully meet the criteria of independence, absence of conflicts of interest and commitment to eu values. in particular, as a member of the committee on culture and education (cult), i was very unsatisfied that the committeeʼs vote rejecting the portfolio for culture, education, youth and citizenship to mr navracsics was insufficiently taken into account by mr juncker. i have also been concerned by the lack of effort to reach gender equality in the new commission. nevertheless, i believe that having a functioning commission in place as soon as possible for the eu to work in the best interests of the citizens is crucial. in addition, member states are responsible for nominating their candidates for commissioners and the composition of the new commission reflects the political reality across the eu. my political group has had a strong input into this new commission and we will continue to insist on the close cooperation with parliament that mr juncker has committed himself to. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the approbation of the new european commission proposed by mr juncker.
in writing. - this draft amending budget will save substantial money, but this money is not going back to taxpayers. instead it is being spent to part-finance dab3 and dab4. so whilst i support the principle of cuts, these are not true cuts to the eu budget. for that reason i have abstained on this motion.
in writing. - i supported the decision, as it only introduces the surplus to the budget resulting from the implementation of the budget year 2013.
in writing. - i supported this proposal for draft amending budget no 2/2014, which aims to enter in the 2014 budget the surplus from the 2013 financial year, amounting to eur 1 005 million.
in writing. - i welcome today’s vote in favour of the draft amending budget no 2/2014 on the surplus of the implementation of budget year 2013. a surplus of eur 1 005 million will be entered in the eu budget for 2014, thus reducing by the same amount the contributions of the member states. the surplus comes mostly from fines and interest on late payments.
in writing. - i supported this as there are no additional costs for member states.
mr president, whilst the budget is not ideal, i voted in favour of amendment 906 supporting the peace process and financial assistance for palestine and for unrwa. as the people of gaza are emerging from the most recent onslaught, their needs are greater than ever and unrwa needs financial support to carry out its work. unrwa is dealing with thousands of families who are homeless and without livelihood. even those with homes find themselves in neighbourhoods where water, sewage and electricity systems are demolished. the future of gaza must not be defined by the instability and poverty imposed by the blockade. the international community will need to move forward and do more, to make sure that it is doing more than just humanitarian action and to address the underlying causes of the crisis, hence ending israel’s occupation in palestine. as we wait for that to happen, unrwa is playing a leading role in addressing the devastation caused by the recent conflict and the pervasive effect of the israeli-imposed blockade. unrwa is seeking usd 1.6 billion for emergency relief, early recovery and reconstruction priorities in the gaza strip, and hence the eu must increase unrwa’s budget.
mr president, here is a really extraordinary statistic. over the past four years the united kingdom has created more jobs than the other 27 members of the european union combined. there are various ingredients that went into that formula. there were changes to the welfare system, there was the removal of a number of low-paid workers from income tax altogether, but one of the things that did not go into it was trying to create jobs by spending money, as this budget proposes. even if you or i were directly to say ʽi am going to create a job by employing someone in my officeʼ, i think we both understand that this would be taking more money out of the private sector than goes into the job. there is always a net loss, which is why the european union is falling behind, why we are on the only continent on the planet that is not growing. one specific point in my remaining time on this budget: it is impossible on the amendment to do with subsidising fighting bulls to distinguish between the ones that might be raised for the plaza and the ones which are not, because almost all of the camada brava end up in the food chain anyway. this was therefore a declamatory, rather than practical, amendment. it would have had absolutely no impact, and if you are against subsidising fighting bulls the only solution is to withdraw from the common agricultural policy.
in writing. - many amendments to the budget were proposed, both by the efdd group and some of the other political groups, which would have saved substantial amounts of money for taxpayers. these amendments were voted down time and time again, and even the request to stop eu subsidies for bullfighting did not achieve a qualified majority. the european union has failed once again to put its own house in order, failed to take a lead with cuts, and failed to show that it understands that taxpayers’ cash belongs to them not to the european union.
in writing. - i do not believe that eu funds should be used to subsidise the farming of bulls used in bullfights. taxpayersʼ money should not be used to fund any practice which causes animals unnecessary pain, suffering or distress. given the uk conservative delegation’s opposition to coupled payments under the cap, it is imperative that these animals are identifiable in order to stop any payments of this kind. for this reason i supported amendment 12 of the vote on the resolution and amendment 232 of the vote on the budget lines. animals used for lethal bullfighting activities should not be eligible to receive any direct cap appropriations nor any other appropriations from the budget.
in writing. - i voted against a number of measures which would have seen the overall eu budget increase and against proposed rises in agricultural subsidies, including bullfighting subsidies, and administration. i voted instead to focus the eu budget more heavily upon investment for growth and jobs, and voted for regional funding that goes directly to communities that are best able to determine how to deliver for people locally. i want to see a real budget reform in the eu, with areas that do not bring any real benefits to our constituents cut.
in writing. – i could not support the draft budget for 2015 because it proposes an increase in the budget beyond inflation.
in writing. - i and my fellow uk labour meps voted against a number of measures which would have seen the overall eu budget increase. labour meps voted to focus the eu budget more heavily upon investment for growth and jobs and against proposed rises for agricultural subsidies and administration.
mr president, today my labour colleagues and i have voted for the eu to do more of what it is good at: working collectively to deliver real benefits – developments in technology like the composites centre in bristol, where cutting-edge research is delivering for industry. projects like this keep the uk and europe as world leaders in science and technology. we voted for investment for growth: projects like the hub in lockleaze, where businesses have benefited from funding that would not have happened without the eu, and voted for regional funding that goes directly to communities – communities like cornwall, communities that are best able to determine how to deliver for people locally. we also voted for the eu to fulfil the global demands that national governments have put on it, whether in ukraine, in gaza or on ebola. these are areas where we are more than the sum of our parts, where the eu makes a real difference. i am proud that labour meps have stood up for constituents in these areas.
mr president, hundreds of my constituents have written to me asking me to vote against eu subsidies for bullfighting and i was more than happy to oblige. most british taxpayers would be appalled to know that their money is being used for this purpose. however, they also need to know that while the vote on the budget itself achieved a majority, it was not allowed because it did not achieve a qualified majority. the subsequent vote on the report also had a majority but the report was purely a commentary on the budget and it also has no effect. british taxpayers’ money will continue to be spent and used to subsidise the breeding of bulls for ritual slaughter. if the british people do not like it, then the only thing that they can do is vote for the uk independence party and bring forward the day when britain leaves the european union.
in writing. the european parliament is taking completely the wrong position on this matter. it should be safeguarding public money, and trying to provide value for money for citizens. instead, it is empire-building. it is trying to carve out as much money as possible for the eu to spend, usually on projects which fail to respect the subsidiarity principle. it is supporting the gentleman’s agreement between council, commission and parliament which keeps costs high and transparency low. for these reasons i could not vote in favour of such a report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this amendment on the budget 2015, which was tabled to stop common agricultural policy (cap) payments being made to farmers who are breeding bulls for bullfighting. cap funding, which is so important for welsh agriculture, should not be used to support bullfighting. despite most meps voting in favour of this amendment, a qualified majority was not reached, and so it did not pass. as a member of the european parliament, i have given animal welfare a high priority and will continue to do so. i recently presented a petition to the new european commission president, jean-claude juncker, calling for a commissioner with clear responsibility for animal welfare, but it was unfortunately unsuccessful. however, i remain very positive that in the vote on next year's budget, we will finally put a stop to european taxpayers’ money being used to support the bullfighting industry
in writing. - i voted against the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2015 because it restores the draft budget proposed by the commission and even increases certain lines above the commission proposal. i am not prepared to give the eu any more taxpayersʼ money. the budget also leaves no margin under the ceiling, which means the commission will be unable to deal with any unforeseen pressures that will inevitably arise.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 because i believe the fact that we have not reformed the eu budget significantly to address the pressing needs of our citizens is a missed opportunity. i find it appalling that we are going to increase by 2.24 % over the 2014 budget, which will benefit the agricultural sector disproportionately. it is hard to justify in the current economic context how we can subsidise bullfighting and the tobacco industry.
in writing. - i do not believe that eu funds should be used to subsidise the farming of bulls used in bullfights. taxpayersʼ money should not be used to fund any practice which causes animals unnecessary pain, suffering or distress. given the uk conservative delegation’s opposition to coupled payments under the cap, it is imperative that these animals are identifiable in order to stop any payments of this kind. for this reason i supported amendment 12 of the vote on the resolution and amendment 232 of the vote on the budget lines. animals used for lethal bullfighting activities should not be eligible to receive any direct cap appropriations nor any other appropriations from the budget.
in writing. - labour argued against the proposed increase in eu spending in 2012, and voted for a real-terms cut in the eu budget then. we have argued for reform of the eu budget, including a greater focus on generating growth and jobs, and for the eu to undertake a zero-based review of all spending by eu agencies.
in writing. – i welcome the paragraph in the report calling on the eu to end all subsidies for bullfighting.
in writing. - labour meps voted today for the eu to do more of what it is good at, working collectively to deliver real benefits and developments in technology, such as funding for the low carbon vehicle technology project at the university of warwick and european bioenergy research institute at aston university – delivering cutting edge research to local industry. labour meps voted for investment for growth and voted for regional funding that goes directly to communities in the west midlands and the rest of the uk, as it is local communities that are best able to determine how to deliver for people locally. these are areas where we are more than the sum of our parts, where the eu makes a real difference, and i am proud that labour meps have stood up for the constituents of the west midlands and the uk in these areas today.
in writing. – overall i could not support this resolution as it is not the time for a rise in the eu budget. many areas need reform and the eu should do more of what it is good at, investing in research, in smes and creating real jobs and real growth. what my labour colleagues and i voted for is to work collectively to deliver real benefits, such as developments in technology. we voted for investment and for growth and voted for regional funding that goes directly to communities that are best able to determine how to deliver for people locally. we also voted for the eu to fulfil the global demands that national governments have put on it – whether in ukraine, gaza or on ebola. these are areas where we are more than the sum of our parts, where the eu makes a real difference, and i am proud that labour meps have stood up for our constituents in these areas. i also voted against amendments to subsidise bullfighting and to subsidise the tobacco industry, which i do not feel are an appropriate use of eu funds (amendments 232 and 231).
in writing. - i have abstained on this motion, because although i disagree with the principle of the eu rather than nation states conducting free trade agreements, this is merely a technical change to an existing agreement.
in writing. - i voted for the additional protocol to the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement, as it clearly concerns a technicality necessary to take croatiaʼs accession to the eu into account.
in writing. - i supported the report. the technical amendment will allow croatia to fully participate and benefit from the free trade agreement between the eu and the republic of korea.
in writing. – the free trade agreement with the republic of korea has produced a substantial increase in trade between south korea and the eu. i welcome its extension to include croatia.
in writing. - i welcome today’s vote on the ratification of the additional protocol to the eu-korea fta taking account of croatia's accession to the eu. this vote is a mandatory component in the completion of the ratification process of the additional protocol and contributes to safeguarding the integrity of the union’s internal market.
in writing. - i voted against the de backer report on the european semester for economic policy coordination. countries like ireland which require progressive economic policy have instead been tied to an awful austerity agenda which has resulted in deprivation, poverty, unemployment. entire rural communities have been left desolate, with no employment opportunities for the young, resulting in mass emigration. the only way to get the economies back up and running is to combine public investment with protection of wages of low and middle income earners. the austerity agenda is having an impact in the north, with proposed welfare cuts on top of the billions that have been deducted from the block grant. families, the working poor, single parents and the disabled that actually suffered most throughout the recession are being subjected to further cuts to their benefits. tories in london, dublin and brussels are all cheerleaders of this approach. the failure of austerity policies and cuts, north and south, are impacting on our most vulnerable in society, and those with the levers of power are ignoring the fact that what is needed is real investment that will reinvigorate our economies in ireland and across europe.
in writing. - as a ukip mep, this resolution goes against the fundamental principles of what i believe about economic policy, which could and should be the preserve of the member states.
in writing. - despite my earlier misgivings, i did give my support to the de backer report on the implementation of 2014 priorities for the european semester. i am pleased that the rapporteur included a number of crucial elements that are important to my group: urging the rapid implementation of mr junckerʼs eur 300 billion investment plan, underscoring that it is imperative to raise public investment, and highlighting the importance of rooting out poverty, precarious employment and youth unemployment. moreover, being convinced that it is in no way helpful for member states that are suffering because of certain budgetary rules to lose structural support, a crucial element in winning my support for the report was the scrapping of an unnecessary reference to the macroeconomic conditionality introduced in the eu structural funds. i staunchly believe that member states should be allowed a certain degree of flexibility in dealing with the rules of the stability and growth pact. we will not come out of the crisis, create growth and create jobs for millions of unemployed young people by implementing a pure austerity agenda.
in writing. - following the european elections in may of this year, the political balance has changed in the eu. this will also change the nature of the economic and social debate. as this report shows, our group will require a new investment policy together with more flexibility, including in the stability and growth pact, in order to allow greater focus on the creation of growth and quality employment in europe.
in writing. - i welcome this report which underlines the fact that investment is important, as it works on the supply and demand side of the economy creating jobs, generating incomes for households, increasing tax revenue, helping governments consolidate and boosting growth; reiterates the need to adopt investor-friendly policies, cut red-tape and reduce administrative burden; calls on the next european commission to enhance european investment by € 300 billion as announced in the political guidelines by jean-claude juncker.
in writing. - looking forward to the next european semester round, i think that the policy of growth-friendly fiscal consolidation should continue, but with more emphasis on growth-enhancing reforms, ‘especially by those member states that have fiscal space to invest’. with today’s vote, the european parliament calls on the commission to set in motion, as a matter of urgency, the eur 300 billion european investment programme proposed by jean-claude juncker.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the de backer report and want us to get the balance right during the process to ensure social and environmental indicators are realised.
in writing. - each year, the commission provides each member state with neutral advice regarding how to improve the state of their economies. this advice is often ignored. i supported today’s report because it encourages both investment from the member states and the implementation of president juncker’s promised eur 300 billion investment programme. i and fellow labour meps agreed to the report after it was agreed that this important funding would be given with no strings attached. the report gets jobs-based growth back on the agenda and will allow the reform that we need in order for europeans to see real economic recovery in their everyday lives.
in writing. - the european semester is the first phase of the eu’s annual cycle of economic policy guidance, and this report concerns the parliament’s priorities for economic policy coordination between member states in 2014. labour meps voted for this report after our key amendments were accepted, which included more of a focus on delivering jobs and growth, and a recognition of the social impacts of austerity. i was pleased that an amendment i tabled, recognising that eu legislation on working conditions and discrimination is not red tape, but vital to protect workers and to enable disadvantaged groups into the labour market, was accepted. my colleague anneliese dodds was also successful in removing references to private investment being more effective for growth than public investment.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to speak today on behalf of the high representative, vice-president catherine ashton, to address a matter of great concern, the situation in the besieged city of ain al-arab kobane. in the course of the debate in plenary last month on the situation in iraq and syria, we all recognised the complex terrorist threat that isis poses not only to iraq and syria but also to the whole region and to europe. the terrorists' intentions are clear, their aim is to occupy as much territory as possible, achieve financial autonomy and spread their law based on force. the deplorable actions they are guilty of range from the brutal murder of hostages and prisoners to the abuse of children and women, to the persecution of religious and ethnic minorities and the desecration of sacred and cultural sites. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the situation in kobane, which has been under siege by terrorists for over a month. the fight is fierce and uneven, the terrorists have managed to transfer to kobane huge forces and a large amount of heavy and sophisticated equipment that they took possession of after the fall of mosul. the speed of this transfer demonstrates the logistical skills of isis and the strategic importance of kobane to the terrorist group. on the other side of the barricade are a few hundred local fighters and volunteers, who can rely on only modest weapons and with great courage continue to defend their city, street by street and house by house. kobane has already become a symbol of resistance to the regime of terror and oppression imposed by isis. the fall of kobane would send the message that isis can defeat this resistance and could increase the attractiveness of isis itself in syria and elsewhere, as well as encourage terrorists to continue their offensive against other targets. this is unacceptable to the european union and its partners. it is time to show by our actions how determined we are to contain and defeat isis. kobane is yet another example of how the coalition needs to act militarily to contain isis, but while this military engagement is still ongoing, it must be recognized that the deployment of armed forces alone is not enough. the union will continue to support the efforts of the united nations and the international criminal court to combat terrorism and violent extremism, including through the implementation of the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. this is what the european union as a whole needs and is committed to achieving. isis has been able to proliferate thanks to non-inclusive policies in iraq and instability in syria, the result of the assad regime's brutal war against its own people, massive human rights violations and systematic obstruction of democratic reforms. our political commitment must go hand in hand with our diplomatic commitment, our cooperation on security and counter-terrorism and our policies to promote the socioeconomic development of the region. from a military point of view, it is essential that the decision announced by the turkish authorities on monday to allow iraqi peshmerga to pass through kobane is translated into concrete action before it is too late. the eu has publicly called on turkey to open its borders to ensure that supplies reach the people of kobani. we hope that this appeal will not go unheeded. more generally, we consider the fight against isis to be a key element of our foreign policy towards turkey. it is essential that all regional partners implement the relevant un security council resolutions, including 2170 and 2178, and step up national efforts to stem the flow of foreign fighters and prevent isis from benefiting from the profits from the illicit sale of oil and other goods. turkey has shown great generosity by taking in over 170 000 refugees from kobane. the european commission has presented an emergency humanitarian aid package of €3.9 million to support the provision of non-food products and healthcare, as well as food aid to refugees not staying in refugee camps. as you know, the european union continues to lead the international response to the humanitarian crisis in syria, mobilising almost €3 billion since 2011. the commission is engaged in a close dialogue with the turkish authorities on how to improve the continued support to kobane refugees in turkey. however, between 7 000 and 10 000 civilians are reportedly still trapped in the city and in need of assistance, and there are fears that isis has already committed widespread abuses in the areas around kobane that are under its control. the tragic situation in kobane must not cause the international community to forget the catastrophic situation in other syrian and iraqi cities and areas torn apart by civil war. international efforts for a syria-led transition within syria remain a priority for the eu, in order to maintain the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country while safeguarding its multi-ethnic and multi-religious character. there can be no lasting peace in syria without taking into account the legitimate demands of all ordinary syrian citizens, including those belonging to ethnic and religious groups including the syrian kurds. the eu is determined to support all efforts for a political settlement, reached by mutual agreement on the basis of the geneva communiqué of 30 june 2012 and in line with the relevant un security council resolutions. to this end, we will continue to give full support to the mission of un special envoy de mistura. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to discussing this subject with you and thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it appears that isis’s retreat from kobane last week may have been a tactical regrouping after reports of a renewed offensive on all fronts against the syrian besieged border town. with estimates of up to 1 000 civilians, many of whom are elderly and vulnerable, remaining still in kobane, its defence from isis is vital to prevent a potential massacre. so i take this opportunity to salute the brave efforts of the kurdish ypg forces on the ground, and i also welcome turkey’s belated decision to allow peshmerga troops to cross the border – though of course it is a little too late for what we would normally expect from a nato ally. furthermore, there are still reports that turkey is failing to effectively prevent jihadi movements from turkey to syria, and in addition, the turkish government continues to refuse to outline the details of the secret deal regarding the release of its 49 hostages held by isis. sadly, the threat of isis continues to grow as they consolidate their powers, and it is clear that we in europe must do all that we can to support the military efforts of the united states. so i am particularly pleased that my country, the uk, has announced yesterday that it will be deploying intelligence and armed drones across parts of syria, marking a welcome shift away from the policy of engaging only in iraq. credible reports that isis fighters have captured chemical weapons in the form of mustard gas from syria is but one example of the dire consequences of the danger posed by the evil threat of isis or isil or the so-called islamic state – call it what you like, but ultimately it must be totally defeated. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – no intention of scoring points; a simple question. with the sorry history of the middle east and the interventions of the west, do you not agree with me that it would be very well beholden on our leaders, yes, to do the right thing and, yes, to support good against evil and these barbaric people, but would it not be right for them to take a more cautious and careful approach and think very carefully before going forward in any kind of gung-ho manner. time to think, reflect, but then, yes, do the right thing. do you agree?
blue-card answer. – well, rather unusually, yes, i would agree, mr etheridge, that we have to be cautious. nobody is talking about boots on the ground, or british troops or any other kind of – american or european – troops that i know of. that may become necessary. there has been a lot of time to think about this. many thousands of innocent civilians – christians, yazidis, turkmen and shia arabs – have been slaughtered by isis, and we must now intervene to prevent another massacre occurring in kobane. my case rests.
blue-card question. – thank you colleague, charles tannock. having listened to what you said, do you personally support turkish membership of the european union, bearing in mind your comments?
blue-card answer. – the conservative party supports turkish candidature and eventual membership of the european union.
blue-card question. – you spoke of a need for an eu strategy in dealing with the middle east and the various problems arising. does that include an eu military strategy?
blue-card question. – my colleague, would you agree with me that syria is ruined? hundreds of thousands have died; millions have been made refugees; iraq is divided along ethnic and religious lines. why do you ask for turkey to join in this battle? do you want... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we scotsmen are noted for our brevity. minister, it is difficult to know where to start in such heartbreak in the kobane situation and the fight against isis generally, but i will focus in the time available on conflict oil. because i think this is an area where the eu as a whole can make a real difference in the fight against isis. as you said yourself, isis derives some revenue from the sale of conflict oil but actually, more importantly, uses oil refineries in its territory itself. that gives it a degree of operational independence, an energy independence which needs to be curtailed. isis controls three main refineries, two at syria’s deir al-zor and one near mosul. they have been degraded by air strikes but the issue is the importation into isis terrority of mobile oil refineries. this is not complex technology. it takes barely 10 days to put a mobile refinery together and on to a lorry, and that is giving isis real operational independence, so a very concrete question for you: will the eu step up cooperation, particularly with turkey, jordan and the krg to stop the importation of this technology to isis-controlled areas, because if we can choke that off we start choking isis itself.
mr president, my thoughts and prayers go out to the brave and innocent people of kobane, who continue to suffer at the hands of islamic state. they have now been under siege for over a month, and the situation continues to look desperate. there was some calm over the past few days as brave kurdish forces appeared to be successfully pushing these murderous barbarians back, but – as we speak – is have renewed their assault. turkey, an official eu candidate country, stood shamefully by and callously watched the horror in kobane for too long, even though it could have intervened. david cameron’s conservative party is politically allied to the governing turkish akp, whose officials have previously found a voice to claim that women should not laugh in public. and as the world has now seen, they have remained deathly silent for too long, watching kurds fight not just for their lives but also for the very existence of their culture. this refusal to act swiftly raises serious questions over their status as potential eu members and, indeed, over british support for turkish membership. how can the conservative party seriously support people who act in such a manner? is may be fighting for kobane now, but we know that they will not stop there. they will continue to slaughter innocent people who do not accept their twisted interpretation of islam until they are stopped. i fear that it is only a matter of time before some of the eu citizens who have been perverted by this warped mindset return to commit atrocities on our streets. i can think of no better reason to stop the free movement of people across the eu than the wish to ensure that citizens from all 28 member states are protected from these poor examples of so-called humanity. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – i think there are some points in what was said to which to take considerable exception. i am staggered to hear a ukip member suggest that the eu should dictate to turkey what its foreign policy and its engagement in a conflict on its borders should be. would the speaker not accept that the only influence we possibly have over turkey is that of eu membership status? (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the siege of kobane is being played out dramatically on our television screens as we all watch the black flag of isis from the hillsides across the border in turkey. in this debate, i join calls for turkey itself to play a full part in the international coalition. but those who simply want to use this issue to bash turkey must equally acknowledge that the country is receiving more than 500 refugees a day from kobane, according to unhcr, and has given support already to 1.2 million refugees who have fled there from syria during the past three years. we should welcome the announcement that the turkish border is open to peshmerga forces, but remember that there are large numbers of diverse people fighting under the name peshmerga, which simply means fighter in kurdish. we have to acknowledge that this is not a conflict between armies, and there is proper concern about the rules of conflict being ignored. however, to call the kurdish fighters terrorists – suggesting this is a fight between one set of terrorists and another, as ankara has done – risks undermining opposition to is and risks the progress of the kurdish peace talks in turkey too. these risks must be avoided. as the new high commissioner for human rights has said, is is indeed the antithesis of human rights and ‘a diabolical, potentially genocidal movement’. europe should support his call for iraq to join the international criminal court to strengthen the legal, as well as the military, fight against them, and as we meet today the us state department still says there is ‘a possibility that kobane will fall to isil’. but while the battle for kobane is the focus of our debate today, the violence we want to see ended is that which continues across iraq and syria, with battles raging in the east of syria and in the suburbs of damascus adding to more than 200 000 deaths since the conflict began. what about the siege by syrian forces of more than 300 000 people around aleppo, who are literally being starved to death, and the 200 air strikes they mounted against their own people yesterday alone? so the questions we must raise should also still be about resolving the conflict in syria, building legitimate opposition, bringing legal accountability for all responsible for the crimes of war and ..... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – whilst everybody is very quick to blame turkey for not taking part in military action, the question i pose to the house is: those of you that were here previously, what did you do to stabilise iraq? the destabilisation of iraq has created this situation in iraq. what did you do to try and stabilise iraq?
mr president, we have a desperate situation in kobane, therefore it is crucial that we bolster groups in iraq and syria who are fighting is. we also need to make sure that we have sufficient safeguards in place through a coordinated approach, not just to avoid arms falling into the hands of is, as has happened to a batch of us weapons dropped in kobane on monday according to reports that i have seen. when we talk about the threat posed by is it is crucial that we do not forget that the assad regime is partly responsible for their success. it has been fostering the development of is over the past years, as part of its strategy to create an illusion that on the one hand opposition groups who are fighting for democracy and, on the other hand, terrorists, are one and the same. therefore, i welcome monday’s decision to further strengthen sanctions on the syrian regime. it is clear that to me we need to offer full support to the moderate syrian opposition in its goal to ensure inclusive and democratic political transition, and we need to urge the iraqi leadership to make sure that all groups in society have substantive participation in government. a unified response to isis will only be possible if these conditions are met.
mr president, i had the privilege to be elected as the new president of the eu-iraq delegation last week. i made it very clear that our priority must be to destroy isil in iraq and syria and wherever isil resides, including on our own streets in europe. mosul has just held the last christian mass after 1 600 years. even babies are being beheaded and 1.8 million people are internally displaced in iraq. i strongly support us, british, nato and arab nations’ air strikes against isil, but we are facing the equivalent of a core of 30 000 isil troops. it cannot be done overnight. i had the opportunity to meet the prime minister and foreign minister of turkey two weeks ago, with whom i directly raised concerns about kobane. turkey’s very positive announcement to allow iraqi kurdish fighters across its border into kobane, particularly with their sensitivities about the pkk, is most welcome. we should support the kurdistan regional government but not get too close to the iranian regime. in this regard we should say that the enemy of your enemy is not necessarily your friend. i intend to play a constructive role to ensure that all tools – military, political, economic and humanitarian – are used to destroy isil and to protect minorities from these purveyors of evil.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, when the uk handed over control of hong kong to the people’s republic of china in 1997, it left behind a legacy of free markets, democracy and the rule of law. it was felt that these principles could challenge the communist one-party state of china, so the ‘one country, two systems’ mantra was established. this settlement allowed for hong kong to have a large degree of autonomy for 50 years as provided for by the sino-british joint declaration of 1984 and the so-called basic law. while these negotiations did not initially secure the right of universal suffrage, there is a reference to an ultimate aim of universal suffrage within the basic law. over the past two decades, we have seen a growing desire in hong kong to achieve that creditable aim, and we are now seeing a demand, in particular, for 2017 to be the year when that change finally comes about. i strongly believe that the european union should now be standing firm in support of hong kong on this issue, provided the protests are being held in a peaceful manner and within the law. china has opened up to the world, become – to its credit – more integrated into international bodies and institutions and embraced many elements of free market capitalism since 1997. we in europe must encourage authoritarian china to understand that allowing hong kong to flourish democratically, as it wishes, is an opportunity for the prc to express itself in confidence, and not a chance to repress by parading its insecurities, as sadly we saw a couple of decades ago in tiananmen square.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, pro-democracy protesters in hong kong are opposing state-imposed candidates for elections. the chinese-backed governor fears that full democracy will lead to the poor dominating politics. well we can only hope, can we not? would that not be a fantastic system? let us hope that that could happen all around the world. it would be a better place. i hope and pray that it is true. a great hero of mine, president reagan, famously said: ‘freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. we didn’t pass it to our children in the bloodstream. we must be thoughtful, protect it, and hand it on to them to do the same.’ many of us thought that president reagan and margaret thatcher and their allies had defeated the tyranny of communism in the last century. sadly, in china, its vestiges live on, and there are many new anti-democratic tyrannies around the world, not all of which show their true faces, but are a force for evil all the same. protesters are carrying umbrellas in hong kong to protect themselves from teargas. we must hope and pray that these good people will stand firm in hong kong; in many places around the world we need people to stand firm in their battle for democracy. we hope and pray that good will prevail over evil and right will defeat wrong, and that the umbrella can become a symbol of democracy, protecting individuals against tyranny. this is a classic case of individuals standing against an overbearing, over-powerful state. as such we wish them well and hope their example will inspire the people of china itself to cry out the demand for democracy so loud that even the ghosts of tiananmen square will hear it and join in. the idea of freedom cannot be killed. it lives in all of our hearts. to the people of hong kong: we wish you well.
mr president, this morning i spoke to christine chan from the umbrella movement in hong kong. she told me that the government there is trying to isolate them from the international media but that they want their voice to be heard all around the world. so let me use my parliamentary speech to tell this house what she told me. christine told me that the police are beating the protestors. one of her friends was taken to what she called a ‘dark corner’ and was beaten by no fewer than seven policemen. she said their heads are bleeding. the umbrella is not just a symbol of the protest. she told me that it is the only defence they have against the widespread use of pepper spray and tear gas. she believes that has been exported to hong kong from my own country, the united kingdom. christine said the protestors had been cleared, not just by police, but by what she called the mob – violent people she and her friends believe have been mobilised and paid for by the government, using tactics she says have been learned from vladimir putin. these are the very same individuals who have raised a petition against the protestors which the government itself appears to have exposed its own complicity in by this week publicly endorsing the petition. christine says the protestors have been provoked by the statement of the hong kong chief executive to the international media, but not the local media, that people earning less than usd 1 800 per month – the poorest half of the population – will be disenfranchised. she said that a privileged group is taking control of the election. they want civil nominations with everyone having the right to vote. she says the protestors have been disappointed by the talks yesterday and today, and that what they have been offered is not even close to what they want. christine said the portrayal from beijing of their protest as a so-called revolution inspired by the west is a total myth. she asked me to make clear that the west is not trying to overthrow the government but to say on her – and their – behalf that democracy must be universal. today i endorse those messages. everyone will form their own conclusions after listening to these and other testimonies. for my part, i make three. i express my own disappointment that the dialogue appears to be producing little outcome. i am concerned that my own country, which is party to the 1984 sino-british joint declaration, has chosen to grant seven export licences to export gbp 180 000 of tear and cs gas to hong kong up to as late as march this year, which is surely being used against the protestors. while i respect ‘one country, two systems’, i find it shocking that a country run by a communist party appears to be advocating a system which gives representation only to those with wealth and privilege.
mr president, it is with disappointment that we learnt that there was no major breakthrough in talks between student leaders and senior officials yesterday in hong kong. i do, however, welcome the shift in approach of the hong kong leadership, which has now at least started to engage with the protesters. i do believe also that it is in the interests of the government of china and hong kong to embark on a transition to universal suffrage which allows the citizens of hong kong a genuine choice in who will govern them in 2017. we should make it clear that beijing’s reneging on hong kong’s autonomy will only aggravate the lack of trust felt by china’s neighbours and risk to stoke further tensions in a fragile region that is plagued by territorial disputes. as a partner, the eu now needs to encourage beijing to continue down the road to dialogue and adopt a clear, realistic timetable for democratic reforms. we should also firmly condemn remarks by hong kong leader leung, who said on monday that fully democratic elections would lead to populist policies, as poorer residents would have a dominant voice in politics. we need to urge him to address the staggering inequality that plagues hong kong society, because it is simply impossible for genuine democracy to take root where you have 1.3 million of hong kong residents living under the poverty line and they are left to grapple with the exorbitant house prices while 80 % of the gdp comes from the top 1% of the population.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, can i first of all correct what the president’s office has just said. the judgment last week was not in the supreme court, in fact the judgment was in the high court of lahore and the defendant in this case still has the right to go through four different appeals until the final decision is reached. we are all deeply concerned about asia bibi’s situation. it is now four years since she was charged and the judicial process is still ongoing. her health has greatly worsened during the years she has spent in almost total isolation. it is worth remembering that the death penalty for blasphemy has, however, never been carried out in pakistan. we know that an overwhelming number of cases registered were against muslims, with only 4% against other minorities. all individuals facing charges, their families and those who speak out against the law face terrible reprisals or lose their lives. blasphemy laws are common across the world, but must be used to promote religious harmony and not in persecution of others. the abuse of these laws encourages extremists to enforce their notion of truth on others, thereby increasing religious intolerance, discrimination and violence. this is unacceptable. laws are there to safeguard and protect individuals in society as a whole. it is very sad that today many millions of people across the globe are still discriminated against, persecuted and even killed for their faith. we cannot allow that and must be vocal against it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – i am speaking primarily in my role as chair of the delegation for countries of south asia which actually includes pakistan, and i want to make it clear to the house that these issues have been raised on our visits there. they have been raised with the authorities in terms of the death penalty in general and in terms of the case of asia bibi, in the case of muhammad asghar, and others. so those cases are raised. people should also be aware that there have been changes in pakistan in recent years as regards accession to international human rights instruments, and that the european union is working towards improvement there. however, as members have said, the blasphemy laws are something to which we return to time after time, and obviously they are of major concern to us. they are often used, as people have said, to settle scores and that certainly seems to have been the case here. while allegations of blasphemy are raised against minorities, i would echo the words of my colleague here that it is also important to see that the majority of people accused under these laws are muslim. i think that if we do not acknowledge that we make it much more difficult for those arguing for change in pakistan because they are often accused of promoting a pro-western, pro-christian agenda rather than promoting human rights in general and we know, people have said, that it can be dangerous to speak in favour of reforming the laws, just as it is dangerous to be accused of breaking them. we have seen over 50 people murdered by mob violence when they have been accused of blasphemy and their cases have never made it to court. this has a real chill effect on politicians and i think, as politicians, we can understand that, so we need to support those in pakistan who do wish to speak out for change, who wish to speak against the death penalty, who wish to speak for reform of these laws for every citizen in pakistan, whatever their faith.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, european citizens are being radicalised. they are travelling to syria and then they are being trained, with possible motives of one day returning to our cities and streets to harm and kill us. they want to replace a europe of freedom and peace with fear and destruction. they call themselves the islamic state but they do not represent the muslim faith. they are criminals and terrorists and i believe that we should refer to them as such. there is no place for this in europe. we have dealt with such behaviour before and we will do it again by working with our communities and our young people and addressing the problems at their source. the words condemnation and education are not enough. leaders of the european council, the un security council and the airlines all want an eu passenger name records agreement in order for law enforcement authorities to capture eu foreign fighters and address the chaotic information exchange system that they currently face. a patchwork of 14 different pnr systems not only leaves gaps in security for terrorists to exploit, but it leaves gaps in our data protection for travellers. the issue of pnr is often presented in a polarised way, but i believe you can protect the civil liberties of the individual while protecting the safety of us all. i urge members to look at this agreement again. as rapporteur i would like to assure you that i will make sure we hold ourselves to the highest possible standards and put in place the toughest data protection rules we can. we must never compromise europe’s hard fought-for civil liberties. it is also our primary duty as politicians to protect those who have elected us and to deal with and bring to justice those who seek to do us harm.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i very much endorse the comments of ms sippel and i would add that winning safety at home will be impossible unless we win the argument abroad. in our dealings with isis, above all else we must win the moral argument and understand that isis, so recently formed as an entity – such as it is – is not a thing in itself: it is a symptom of a wider problem partly brought about by our actions in the middle east. the roots to this go deep. having grown up in the region myself, i am slightly familiar with it. the very existence of many of the states we are dealing with goes back to the historic actions of a number of our member states, not least my own. even in today’s new york times a foreign fighter is quoted as saying ‘isis is the divine vehicle that will dismantle the european borders drawn by britain and france at the end of world war i’. this goes back a very long way, and unless we comprehend the causes, and also much else – and i disagree that a massive security infrastructure at home is the solution when the causes are deeply rooted elsewhere – that disjoint in our values, because we are not seen as being impartial, is exploited by recruiters in highlighting our selective and partial application of our own much-vaunted values in our dealings with the region. even now we see that, while some rightly condemn the barbarism of isis, we are rather quieter in condemning similar actions by a number of our allies. even today in syria we are seeing air strikes rightly targeting isis, but leaving syrian forces free to attack the civilian population. we might win a battle but we are not winning hearts and minds, and until we do so we are not actually going to tackle the real problem.
on behalf of the efdd group. – it is a sad fact that hundreds of men and women have been radicalised enough to leave the uk and fight for isis. many a family has been left heartbroken and devastated in my country and in europe. our interfering has destabilised the whole region and dramatically changed lives. since the iraq war our reputation lies in tatters. previous to the invasion, iraq did not have al-qaeda or isis. libya lies completely broken. there are already enough combatants and our involvement will encourage further radicalisation and fundamentalism, not least because air strikes will lead to innocent civilian deaths. we must not be seen as those leading a new crusade in muslim lands. to prevent this from happening i am holding a conference in london on 5 december on the radicalisation of the youth. the chief guest will be the grand mufti of egypt, shawki ibrahim allam, and the archbishop of canterbury, justin welby. we must find a solution and we must act now.
mr president, we have witnessed a surge of young people travelling to join isis, many of whom are born and raised in european countries. we must ask why these young people are joining isis’s ranks. some feel targeted and isolated, do not feel understood or valued either by their own communities or by mainstream society. groups like isis can still fill this void by spreading their false narrative using social media tools that young people communicate through, creating a false impression that they are joining a fight for a good cause against oppressive regimes. the current approach of asking families to turn in their own children has failed. families are lost; we need to help them re-connect with their children through better communication. isis is only islamic in name and not in its actions. we all have our role to play in exposing their false message. the mosques must play their part in achieving this by standing up against isis and reaching out more to engage young people. media must stop its biased coverage, which further devises extreme reactions, and replace it with an alternative, fair account of what the islamic faith really is. accounts of europeans who have faced isis atrocities could help build their alternative narrative. it is important that the middle east countries have joined the coalition in fighting against isis. we also need to increase security measures to prevent europeans travelling to join isis. the eu must coordinate achieving these goals and share best practices. it is not enough to merely legislate against these youths, we must win the war too. the war is not led by the west against muslims, it is the whole world against isis.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, safe and secure borders are essential for europe, but undocumented migrants are subject to exploitation, particularly those that are vulnerable and those that are children. irregular migration fuels human trafficking, modern slavery and child exploitation. this is certainly not the first operation of its kind, but i must highlight that it is almost impossible to have a coherent european approach to immigration – or at the very least good cooperation between our institutions – without communicating with us and without having the respect to at least inform us what is happening. i have read justifications for the secrecy surrounding this operation; many of them sound logical enough, but we are in an elected assembly with co-decision powers and a role in the appointment of the directors and allocation of the budgets of european agencies. when operations are undertaken in a way which is secret from this parliament, then the obvious conclusion is that something is wrong. the most essential element of any immigration policy is trust by the people of europe. i believe in a fair but firm immigration system, but i also believe in one which follows the rules, where correct rights are applied and procedures are followed. i would therefore like to ask the commission and the council if this is the case in this matter. such operations should not be interpreted as intimidating to those who genuinely seek asylum and, most of all, the safety and welfare of any child must be at the forefront of our minds in such operations.
madam president, this initiative’s purported objectives are to apprehend illegal migrants, gather intelligence and combat the organised crime gangs that trade in people. that is all very well, but migrants stream in from africa, the middle east and beyond for a variety of reasons: poverty, oppression and most lately the result of some islamic countries descending into a form of fundamentalist barbarism. these varied causes need a concerted and coherent foreign policy response by the countries of nato and the west if we are to do anything to alleviate them. one of the main reasons that migrants flood to europe from all corners of the world is the eu’s open borders policy, because once in one european country it is easy for them to make their way to their european country of choice, and in many cases the migrants’ country of choice is the united kingdom. we only have to look at the chaos and anarchy in calais where thousands of illegal immigrants daily fight to gain entry to britain after having travelled across europe to do so. we need genuine cooperation among nation states to address the root causes of mass migration and to police our borders, but while we still have an open borders policy in europe these efforts will be in vain. britain’s priority should be to regain control of our borders by leaving the european union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am sorry, on the news bulletins for the last few years we have seen hordes and hordes of people in calais trying to get through to britain by hiding themselves in vans, in lorries, in anything that they can get into, so there are literally thousands, tens of thousands, of people that have come by that route and are still trying to do so. also, i do not understand why you would not want me to condemn a form of islamic fundamentalism which is butchering people and persecuting people of all religions and driving them out of the middle east. are you in favour of that? i certainly am not and i do not know any civilised person who would be.
madam president, on 7 october this year, jti, the tobacco making company, announced the closure of its lisnafillan factory in ballymena, co. antrim, in northern ireland, with the loss of 900 jobs in that area – and that is only in the immediate factory, there are hundreds more jobs in smes, printers and haulage companies throughout the area. that closure was caused by the actions and decisions made in europe on the second tobacco products (tpd2) packaging directive. those jobs have been closed. let those who made those decisions go and tell those poor people in ballymena today what their future is. how will they pay their mortgages, how will they bring up their families and how will they look to a future? i am certainly looking to europe to come back in and help to do the best they can through the globalisation fund, to do all they can for the people of ballymena.
madam president, two weeks ago in my constituency of northern ireland, 900 employees of jti ballymena were told that they were to lose their jobs. make no mistakes about it: these redundancies are the direct result of the revised tobacco products directive. the backdoor deals thrashed out around minimum pouch weights and pack sizes were illogical and deeply damaging. i warned parliament that jobs would be lost and, sadly, too many ignored this or simply did not care. it would be perverse, therefore, for eu regional development funds to be used to attract these jobs to eastern european economies. uk taxpayers already pay more into europe than they get back out. they should not have to stand by while their own money is used to rob them of employment. these institutions, madam president, must be in a state of readiness to help and aid the workers from jti ballymena.
mr president, carbon capture and storage (ccs) can reduce the amount of co2 in the atmosphere, thereby tackling climate change. ccs provides a medium-term future for gas and coal in europe. ccs can capture carbon emissions from the production of steel, cement and fertiliser. ccs can provide jobs thereby pumping money into the european economy while at the same time pumping co2 under the ground into safe storage. in this way we can buy the time we need to transition to renewable energy. i therefore strongly call on the council meeting this week to make carbon capture and storage a vital, intrinsic and viable component of our new eu 2030 climate and energy action framework. carbon capture and storage: capturing to store, storing to save, saving to prosper.
madam president, in 1907 a farmer from surrey named william willets put forward a suggestion that is so simple, yet so effective, that it has since been copied in over 70 countries around the world, including in every single member state of the european union. the simple act of putting the clocks forward one hour during the lighter months reduces energy consumption, increases tourism and leisure potential and reduces overall accident rates. since 1996, the european union has harmonised the times at which member states have put their clocks forward and back in order to eliminate the many confusions that used to arise. i believe we should extend this period from seven to eight months, as has happened in the us and canada, in so doing replicating the benefits that i have described for more of the year and harmonising with north american time zones at a time when transatlantic trade is on the agenda. i have asked the commission if it will look into this and i hope to secure support from members should any proposals be forthcoming.
author. - madam president, the russian justice ministry’s request to have the human and civil rights organisation memorial closed down reflects just about all that is wrong with president putin’s russia. memorial works to promote democracy, the rule of law, human rights and civil society activism – all principles that are being eroded currently in russia. on a more symbolic level, it works to inform the public of russia’s true history, exposing the terrible atrocities committed during the stalinist soviet era – a history that the political establishment more usually today glosses over and vaunts as a guiding light for the future of russia. as ukraine moves closer to parliamentary elections, we see the chaos that reigns across the regions of donetsk and luhansk as a result of the practical implementation of that kind of dogma. memorial is just one organisation in russia, but iconically it represents the russia that should be and its closure is extremely worrying to us in this house. russia has, with china and saudi arabia, recently drafted proposals to the itu to give control of the internet to national governments and away from icann as part of a crackdown on net freedom. fortunately the usa, a lover of freedom, is blocking this and rightly so as the net, for all its faults, remains a forum for free expression by the victims of authoritarian regimes globally.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, uzbekistan is very much a regular topic, no stranger to this house, but there is little sign that things in uzbekistan are improving and, indeed, real evidence that individual states and the international community are turning a blind eye to flagrant abuses. even recently we have heard from the international labour organization estimates that around about a million uzbek adults and children have been pressed into forced labour within the cotton harvest, as well as flagrant abuses on the part of the regime. now this blind eye does go back a long way, and back in 2004 craig murray, who was the uk ambassador to uzbekistan at the time, uncovered evidence of a man who had been boiled to death by the regime for a refusal to give up his faith and pledge allegiance to the regime. this was verified by glasgow university, but instead of applauding mr murray’s diligence the uk hounded him from office. this does go back a long way. so if the uk and the member states will not take the lead, the eu is in a position to do so. we have cleaner hands than most, perhaps, and i would refer the commissioner to point 11 within the resolution stating that the eu should take the lead and table a un human rights council resolution under item 4 establishing a dedicated country-specific mechanism for uzbekistan. that strikes me as a positive contribution to continue pressure on the regime. much as there are few signs of light, we must stick close to our principles or else uzbekistan could become a breeding ground for – as we have heard – anti-establishment and extremism, and we must stick true to our principles. i would be grateful for the commissionerʼs view on that suggestion.
madam president, can you explain to me and my fellow meps why we have a known criminal, who has served time in britain, wandering around parliament quite freely? he should not be allowed to wander around parliament. this is also a gentleman who turned a blind eye to the abuse of 1 400 children in one of my constituencies, and he is actually in the coffee bar, like a bad smell. i would like to know how that happened. his pass should be removed. his name is denis macshane.
madam president, i was astonished by the number of people in this chamber who are now prepared to act directly as cat’s paws for vladimir putin while calling themselves patriots, calling themselves even nationalists in their home countries. there seems to have been a strange ‘my enemy’s enemy is my friend’ reasoning that has led people into alliance and to become apologists for an organisation, or an ideology, which happens to be against the eu. well, i think the european union is an undemocratic racket, but that is not what is at issue in ukraine. what is at issue there is the yearning of people to live in a normal country where property rights are respected, where contracts are honoured, where there is a pluralist multi-party system and where the individual is free of state control. you can support that system with or without supporting the european union. my kind of euroscepticism is internationalist, cosmopolitan, open, warm and optimistic and it has no space in it for sympathy for putinism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the landsbergis report on customs duties on goods originating in ukraine because i believe it is vital that we prolong the autonomous trade preferences granted to kiev in order to avoid the creation of a legal vacuum for ukrainian exports to the eu. in the current context, it is crucial that we do not diminish support to ukraine, a close neighbour whose security, stability and prosperity is directly tied to ours.
in writing. - i supported the report as, given the current situation in ukraine, a timely approval to prolong the regulation granting autonomous trade measures for ukraine is necessary. it proves that the eu can act swiftly and decisively and signals our political will to help the ukrainian people.
in writing. – i welcome this report in the current situation. the timely and rapid approval by parliament of the commission proposal to extend the regulation granting autonomous trade measures (atms) for ukraine will prove that the eu can act swiftly and decisively and can fulfil its political commitments.
in writing. - i am sorry to be unable to attend this vote, and therefore wish to communicate my belief that discharge should not be granted to berec. improvements may have been made to berec in 2013, but that would be an argument to grant discharge in 2013 – not 2012. i therefore remain opposed to discharge.
in writing. - given that we were able to establish a sufficient degree of improvement in its performance compared with the situation in 2012, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the body of european regulators for electronic communications.
in writing. - i supported granting discharge to the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) for the financial year 2012. berec has improved its performance significantly and satisfied parliamentʼs concerns.
in writing. - i voted for this report which takes note that in order to address the shortcomings related to the legality and regularity of transactions, the office has included in its financial and accounting manuals clear procedures, detailed steps and workflows to be used by all financial actors. the report also welcomes the fact that processes related to the carry forward exercise were under particular focus.
in writing. - i voted for this report refusing to grant discharge to the council in relation to the financial year 2012. i will continue to vote against the granting of discharge to any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of refusing discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the 2012 financial year, due to a lack of transparency in the finances and the councilʼs continued refusal to provide information in response to parliamentʼs questions.
in writing. - i supported this report which insists that the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised in the same way as that of other institutions, and points out that the fundamental elements of such scrutiny have been laid down in its discharge resolutions of the past years, in particular the discharge resolution of 23 october 2012.
in writing. - today i voted against granting discharge to the european council for its general budget for the 2012 financial year due to a lack of financial transparency and the councilʼs continued refusal to provide information in response to the parliamentary committeeʼs questions. discharge was also refused for financial years 2009, 2010 and 2011.
in writing. - i was delighted to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, securing decent working-time rules for those working on passenger and cargo ships in inland waterways. inland waterway transport is an important economic sector within which around 10 000 companies across the european union operate, and it is generally quiet and energy-efficient. we as meps have a duty to defend all workers, and this measure proves that it is possible to protect workers with irregular or atypical working hours, without opting out of the working time directive entirely. i am particularly pleased to support the measure given that it is the result of a social partner agreement between employers and workersʼ unions. by engaging in constructive social dialogue, inland waterways employers have recognised the fact that fair working conditions and adequate rest are essential to productive operations. and by negotiating effectively, the european transport workersʼ federation has demonstrated that there is no reason for inland waterway workers to be deprived of basic protections, including limits on working time, rights to rest periods, and night work restrictions. i hope that those who claim that a blanket opt-out of the working time directive is necessary will rethink their position following this excellent result.
in writing. - i welcome the implementation of the social partnersʼ agreement on working time for the inland waterway transport sector. this proposal, once agreed by the council, will contribute to improving working conditions for 31 000 crew members and shipboard personnel and to fairer competitive conditions for the 9 645 enterprises active in the sector.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the agreement as concluded by the social partners and the commission proposal provide only for minimum requirements, leaving the member states and/or social partners free to adopt measures which are more favourable to workers in the area concerned.
in writing. - i welcome todayʼs vote on the implementation of the social partnersʼ agreement on working time for the inland waterway transport sector. we expect the same now regarding the social partnersʼ agreement on health and safety in the hairdressing sector. the outgoing commission refused to forward the agreement to the council for its legal transposition. this is severely hampering the autonomy of social partners and questioning their role in european social dialogue.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, todayʼs discussion has been precipitated by luxleaks and the allegations in the press last week. firstly let me thank the president of the commission mr juncker for attending today, but with all due respect it is commissioner vestager who should be here today discussing these matters. she is leading the commission investigation into tax schemes in luxembourg, the netherlands, ireland and several other eu countries. as a quasi-judicial investigation, i believe we should await its outcome before rushing to judgments or holding a witch-hunt. the ecr was pleased to hear commissioner vestager yesterday tell the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) that she would include the leaked information in her investigation and that she would widen the scope of the investigation if it proved necessary. although as there has been some confusion today on whether there will actually now be an investigation, a reassurance from the commission is necessary that this is going to be the case. the ecr group has long argued for further action at national, eu and global level to tackle tax evasion, tax fraud and, indeed, aggressive tax avoidance. people are frankly not willing to accept companies that go out of their way to avoid paying what they legitimately owe. global country-by-country reporting by companies of their sales and profit is long overdue. although it is a global problem, the eu can play a meaningful role in this field. at commissioner vestagerʼs hearing i specifically asked her what she was going to do to close the ʽdouble irishʼ tax loophole as it may constitute state aid. she confirmed last month, before all these allegations, that it was firmly on her agenda within the framework of eu competition law. however, let us not forget that tax is a member state issue. for the eu to play a role does not require more eu legislation or centralisation of powers, nor does it need tax harmonisation. tax competition is of utmost importance in the eu and it encourages us to remain competitive globally. the solution lies in proper enforcement of existing national and eu systems and through greater transparency and greater international cooperation in tax matters through the g8 and g20 level. i am proud to say that it was my prime minister during the ukʼs presidency of the g8 last year who led these discussions on reporting and tax transparency, and it will be discussed again in brisbane next week. if commissioner vestagerʼs investigation raises questions that need to be answered, then they must be answered here in this chamber. they cannot be avoided. clearly this investigation needs to have the trust of the public. they need to know that whatever the commission concludes is the result of an independent, thorough and public proper inquiry. we should base our actions and debates not on leaks and not on part of the picture, but on a full, independent assessment by our own competition authority that reveals all the facts. the ecr calls on commissioner vestager to deliver her investigation as quickly as is feasible but also asks for reassurance today on the independence, the scope and the procedure for keeping this parliament informed.
mr president, i have a point of order. you allowed mr verhofstadt additional speaking time to criticise a member of the european parliament who is not even here. this is supposed to have been, and he claims this to have been, a point of order. now a point of order under rule 186 should be considered as a point of order, not granting additional speaking time to somebody to make a personal attack in a way which would not be accepted in any sensible parliamentary democracy anywhere in the world. (applause from the efdd group)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it seems from mr juncker’s opening remarks that he is blaming everybody else and not himself and in a desperate effort to throw everybody off the scent he is calling for more eu tax harmonisation. rubbish, i say. let us get to the rub of it. the definition of hypocrisy in the oxford english dictionary is the practice of claiming to have higher standards or more noble beliefs than is the case, and i do not think anyone in this chamber could disagree with me today when i say that this perfectly sums up the position of the president of the european commission here today. when mr juncker was campaigning for the post, he stood on a platform of stamping out aggressive tax avoidance by multinational corporations across the european union, yet it is now clear from recent revelations that he had not practised what he was preaching. under his tenure, luxembourg was a magical fairyland for multinational corporations where tax rates of as little as 1% were paid on profits. mr juncker, you said that this was within the rules, but equally i say it is morally bankrupt. when asked by one of my ukip colleagues back in july how you could justify advocating tax standardisation across the european union whilst overseeing a tax haven in luxembourg, you simply dodged the question and now we know why. could this possibly be a case of history repeating itself, because mr juncker’s predecessor as prime minister of luxembourg, mr jacques santer, was forced to resign as president of the commission under a cloud of corruption back in 1999? i suppose that, if you think about it in those terms, mr juncker’s appointment can be summed up by albert einstein’s theory of insanity, which is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. i would like to finish by asking this chamber why the people of europe are increasingly sceptical about the european union. allow me to tell you with one simple sentence: it is because it is always a case of ‘do as i say and not as i do’, and therefore i believe, mr juncker, you have two options. one is to honourably resign or, two, at least stand down while an independent investigation takes place. (applause from the efdd group)
mr president, the procedure you have outlined is very confusing, and i think members will be wondering why you ask us to vote in favour or abstain, thus giving us no opportunity to vote against. it is the most extraordinary procedure. it is quite undemocratic, and you might wish to reflect on giving members the opportunity to vote against. (applause)
mr president, i would indeed like to make a point of order. what has just happened in this house is a travesty of democracy. to give us a vote in which the option is to vote ‘yes’ or to abstain is bad enough, but when you look at rule 17 of the rules of procedure of this house, it does not provide for such a system. rule 17 speaks of how vice-presidents of the parliament are elected. there is nothing whatsoever in that rule that gives you the authority to hold a ballot where the choice is ‘yes’ or ‘abstain’. this is democracy eu-style!
, blue-card question. – i noticed with interest that you compared the tax situation within the european union to the united states of america. would you not agree that there are fundamental differences when separate nation states are involved? to be looking at it from that angle is completely missing the point and shows why this place is not really appropriate to deal with this kind of issue.
blue-card question. – do you agree that multinationals need to be held to account for the way that they stifle small businesses? do you recognise that there is a difference between tax avoidance and evasion? do you understand that moves towards tax harmonisation are moves that push the uk towards the exit door from the european union? like caesar’s wife, our leaders must be beyond suspicion. do you accept that juncker is no longer beyond suspicion?
madam president, this is a debate over tax avoidance with a president who built his career on encouraging tax avoidance in his own country. then comparisons between the eu and the usa, talking about lame-duck presidents. maybe a flock of socialist lame-duck presidents perhaps! in this chamber of fantasies, where earlier on today members claimed credit for the fall of communism without mentioning the uk or the usa, i find it wholly inappropriate that such matters should be discussed. let us leave it to sovereign national governments. they can employ proper expertise, for the benefit of ordinary taxpayers – people who are sick of the stitch-ups that are outwitting this waddle of lame ducks – and maybe the lame duck-in-chief, mr juncker, could do the honourable thing and resign.
in writing. – is there ever a single discussion in the european parliament which is not used as an excuse to call for ‘more europe’? i can hardly believe the calls for tax harmonisation, as though the european union were in a position to make matters better rather than worse. jean-claude juncker does not have the best of records in this area, and he is president of the commission. i recall that he told a journalist ‘when things get serious, it’s time to lie.’ so early in his term, have things already got serious for mr juncker?
in writing. – the situation regarding luxembourg and tax raises once again the issue of tax dodging and tax havens. international tax evasion and avoidance not only threaten fiscal stability, by making it harder for governments to balance the books, they also undermine social justice, by pushing more of the tax burden onto low- and middle-income households who already bear the brunt of austerity measures. in addition, tax abuses undermine economic efficiency by allowing inefficient tax-dodging companies to out-compete better, more responsible rivals – often the smaller, domestic firms that typically provide the majority of employment. corporate tax wars also pose a substantial threat. an eu-wide floor on corporate tax rates could prevent some of the worst excesses of a race to the bottom. much of the damage, however, stems from ‘competition’ to make it easy for companies to shift in, at low or no tax, their profits made elsewhere. here the eu’s longstanding proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base, and the intra-eu allocation of taxable profits according to the location of actual economic activity, could have powerful effects in curtailing the gaming of the system.
in writing. – it is with concern i note that, when he was prime minister of luxembourg, mr juncker appears to have supported a policy of tax avoidance. to regain his credibility and that of the european commission, effective measures are urgently needed to bring an end to fiscal dumping once and for all. it is a longstanding disgrace that multinationals are able to get away with contributing as little as 1% in taxes because some member states are going out of their way to have them set up shop within their borders. it is unacceptable that these companies are literally taking a free ride on state-funded roads and infrastructure while receiving support for research and development and demanding protection when they are in trouble, without contributing their share. this is fundamentally unfair, to member states suffering under extreme austerity rules, to tax payers who are continuously asked to shoulder a bigger burden while losing eur 1000 billion a year to tax evasion, and to smaller businesses who have to drop out of the race because they simply cannot compete with powerful multinationals exploiting every single loophole. it is time to close the holes and cracks in legislation and harmonise fiscal policies between member states.
madam president, sixty seconds is insufficient to do justice to this report. about eur 7 billion mismanaged and thrown down the drain. we have got multinationals claiming small-business relief, farms claiming buildings as grazing land, and employees paid five times the going rate for jobs. the mismanagement and fraud indicates a system rotten to the core. every failure by a member state is also a failure of the system itself, and even in projects administered by the commission, there is still a 3.7% error rate. last year, the commission simply ignored 21% of the auditors’ recommendations. only 79% were implemented in full or even in part. if a private business ignored auditors’ instructions, they would end up in jail, just like they would if they submitted error- riddled accounts for 19 years in a row.
madam president, i would like to thank the president of the court of auditors. i am sure that most colleagues in the room would welcome the fact that the court has once again said that revenue and commitments were legal and regular. however, of course, a lot still needs to be done on payments. a 4.7% error rate is far too high. but i would emphasise – unlike other colleagues – that we are talking about errors and not fraud. we also know that most of the errors take place at member state level. this is borne out by the figures which show that the percentage of errors in shared management projects is much higher than the directly managed programmes. so we do need to do much more work with member states, particularly those member states who, year on year, are problematic. i would welcome any ideas the new commissioner has on this. how can we help member states to reduce their error rate? like others, i also wanted to comment on the issue of performance … (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i found the negative statement of assurance continues to depress, but i took enormous encouragement from the positive approach taken by both the auditors and the commissioner. quite rightly they both said this is a new beginning, and quite rightly they expressed renewed determination to address longstanding problems. specifically, they both referred to the need for culture change. i agree. but can i suggest that the start point for that culture change ought to be in this house. we are the directly elected representatives of the people. we are the house which determines the expenditure budget for taxpayers’ money. and yet for all the interest we show in the envelope of the budget, we have no powers to monitor the outcome of the budget. we have no powers to scrutinise commission expenditure, and we have no mechanism to measure and evaluate value for money. only when we can adopt those powers can we change that culture and thereby get on the road towards a positive statement of assurance.
madam president, i thank the auditors for this report, and the vital and often insufficiently appreciated work that they do. frankly, this chamber should be significantly fuller than it actually is. whilst i agree with my group colleagues on this report that a performance approach on control is important, i think we must not forget the key issue of absorption. it is still very important in terms of use of funds. in the uk we are below the eu average for a proper absorption of funds, and this is important. in reality, in overall terms, this means, for example, that youth guarantee money, flood help, supporting redundant workers, all of these things in reality could be made much better use of, as well as the funds that are specifically looked at and addressed by this report. and in answer to the colleague over there, it is absolutely not true that eu money is a waste. it is good value for money. if you look at the uk public accounts there are major qualifications … (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i sit on the committee on regional development; we have gone through some of the discrepancies that show up and i accept that many of them are actually not anything sinister or malicious, they are genuine mistakes that get made. i think it is important is that we find a way for the system to allow for a more clear way of understanding, where people cannot get so confused. i actually believe that a vast majority of the discrepancies are done in good faith, but it is still taxpayers’ money, and if we have a system where people do not really understand what they are doing, there is a possibility that fraud could come through, and on a grand scale. while money is tight for all of us around europe and every country is desperate to ensure the cash is used properly, i think there needs to be some work done to make sure that whatever money does go through this place is used properly and there are no errors or mistakes in the process.
member of the commission. - madam president, it gives me great pleasure to come back this time to respond on behalf of the commission to parliament’s request for a statement on the peace process in northern ireland. this is a process which, in the first instance, concerns the two governments of the united kingdom and the republic of ireland, which have worked closely over many years and which effectively began the peace process when they signed a joint declaration in december 1993. the european union immediately welcomed the signing of the declaration and committed itself to social and economic progress in the region, including under programmes financed by the european structural funds. over the period since then, the european union, its institutions and consultative bodies, have taken a special interest in the peace process. for me this is perfectly normal, since the union itself is a successful example of peaceful reconciliation based on economic integration. in 1994, immediately after the announcement by paramilitary organisations in northern ireland of a complete cessation of violence, our then president of the commission, jacques delors, declared the commission’s fullest commitment to the peace and reconciliation process. strongly supported by the european parliament, the commission decided to propose a new support package in order directly to address the process of reconciliation and social and economic reconstruction. this took the form of a special and innovative support programme – the peace programme – which was approved by parliament and member states in 1995, covering northern ireland and the border counties of ireland, an area today of 2.3 million people. between 1995 and 2013, the european union contributed some eur 1.3 billion to three rounds of peace programmes, or almost eur 2 billion after matched funding by the member states. it has been used in a distinct manner, supporting cross-community projects in the social and economic fields and promoting shared spaces, while seeking to deal with the legacy of the past. in recognition of the long-term nature of the peace process, for the new period 2014-2020 parliament and the member states agreed a new eu peace programme. the new programme will have an eu contribution of some eur 230 million, which will be matched by some eur 40 million in member state contributions. the peace programmes are regarded as having achieved many positive outcomes, as one very important element in the wider peace process, which, as i have said, involves the two member states in the first instance. we have always recognised that the programme is not about quick fixes. it is a strategically focused package designed to promote long-term partnership, as well as cross-community and cross-border cooperation. evaluation of the peace programmes has shown a very positive impact on the ground, both in northern ireland and the border counties of the republic of ireland. the programmes have touched the lives of over one million people, bringing divided communities together, helping to rebuild trust and lay the groundwork for a shared future. the evidence suggests that the project has helped to change people’s attitudes, encourage them to reflect on their own prejudices, recognise the need to respect diversity and work together to build a new society. for example, the peace iii programme focused on building positive relationships at local level and on helping people to acknowledge and deal with the past. so far, over 25 000 people in the region have participated in the conflict resolution workshops, over 7 000 people have received trauma counselling and over 40 000 participated in events assisting victims and survivors. we have naturally emphasised support for the next generation, through projects that seek to provide young people with the skills and confidence needed to avoid sectarian violence. importantly, the programmes have helped to give the people in the region a sense of ownership of the peace process by fostering a bottom-up approach and encouraging people to devise their own solutions to problems. yet, as we know, unrest and persistent disputes have produced setbacks in the ongoing peace process. the european union, in taking the decision for a further round of peace support for 2014-2020, has recognised that there is more work to be done. as we all know, the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and the regulatory framework for the programmes were agreed later than we would all have wished. the draft peace programme 2014-2020 was submitted by the member states on 22 september and the commission is currently preparing observations. under the new programme, among other things, creating opportunities for the young people of northern ireland will be essential. it is the young that we must help if we are to sow the seeds of a more tolerant society capable of abandoning the hatreds of the past. we in the commission will not shy away from tackling sensitive issues and we will seek to ensure that all political parties buy into, and remain supportive of, the new programme. it is important to recall that the peace programme, while financially the most important, has not been the only expression of eu support to the peace process. the eu has contributed almost eur 350 million, over more than two decades, to peace and reconciliation under the international fund for ireland. an additional contribution was made from 2007 at the time when the devolved institutions were restored in northern ireland and when the outgoing president of the commission, mr barroso, established an interdisciplinary task force within our institution to pursue opportunities for the region across the eu policy spectrum. the northern ireland task force operates within the commission under my responsibility as commissioner for regional policy. it has expanded over the years and today is composed of representatives from 18 commission directorates-general that can play a role in fostering social and economic development in a broader sense. many of you will have seen the report which was launched at the beginning of this month outlining the activities under the task force over the seven years of its existence. i was pleased to see the positive reaction to the report and the recognition of the role of the commission from both the first minister of northern ireland, peter robinson, and the deputy first minister, martin mcguinness. i propose to speak to president juncker about the continuation of the activity of the task force in the new commission.
blue-card question. – i agree with everything you say, mr kelly, and we all wish for things to move forward. there are one or two legacy issues on which i would like to ask you – and everyone else to do with northern ireland – to join with me. birmingham is in my constituency of the west midlands, and the families of the justice for the 21 still have no closure, they still do not know who committed that bombing and they still campaign regularly for it. would you join with me in helping to try and bring some closure for those families, please?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i also welcome the commissioner, who is a prominent member of my political group. i was one of the authors of the joint motion for a resolution and am very proud to have done that for my group. we here in the european parliament all want to see a lasting resolution to the conflict and a full implementation of the good friday agreement. this joint motion for a resolution is a very good reminder that we have seen here a good example of conflict resolution from across the eu and beyond. of course this is a very special and important part of our history, for the united kingdom and islands of the united kingdom and northern ireland and ireland. it is a very special moment, and we will hear from mr nicholson in a moment. of course we have all worked with the parties of ireland and northern ireland, and there is a very special relationship through my party, for example with sinn féin, working with families. we spoke about reconciliation, and all of us have had those practical examples of reconciliation and work. all the same i think what we want to see, and what we have seen in this resolution, is that issues are dealt with, the overall progress has to be made in northern ireland and should not be underestimated or forgotten in this debate. while there have been numerous problems along the way requiring delicate political negotiation, the processes remain largely on track and we need to promote the progress made as a positive example of conflict resolution. the lesson that can be drawn from the peace process is that the ability to empathise is essential. all sides to a conflict must be able to understand what the other side feels, what it wants and what it hopes for. political representatives trying to negotiate an end to conflict must be able to place themselves in the shoes of their political opponents and of those opponents’ constituents. this helps to encourage compromise, and as we all know politics is the art of compromise. the role of the eu has been essential in this and the commissioner has explained what that is. we are proud of that eu role and proud of what we can continue to contribute to the peace process in northern ireland.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, can i also welcome the commissioner to parliament. commissioner, i look forward to working with you and i sincerely hope that – while i know that you have just taken up office – you will visit us very early next year to see the good work that has been done by europe in northern ireland. i think this debate tonight provides us with a welcome opportunity for the european union to reaffirm its support for northern ireland. we have come a long way in northern ireland over the past number of decades and, while a tiny minority seek to bring terror and conflict back to our province, the people of northern ireland want to keep looking forward and to build a better society. i welcome the commitment that the commission continues to support the northern ireland process, the various generations of peace programmes attest to this. the establishment of the barroso task force was also an important sign of the european unionʼs commitment to progress in northern ireland and we must understand that this process is not over yet; the northern ireland task force still has a valuable role to play and indeed it is promising that commissioner crețu appears to be holding the task force in high regard. if one mistake was made about northern ireland at one stage many years ago, it was that people thought northern ireland was a done deal. members of this house, it is far from a done deal and we ask for your continued support.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, three weeks ago the joint first minister, martin mcguiness, updated meps about the irish peace process. the following week in strasbourg, president schulz made a statement about parliament’s readiness to help. as this resolution states, the ‘implementation of the peace process has reached an impasse’. it ‘urges all parties to the process to work constructively towards a lasting resolution of the conflict and the full implementation of the good friday agreement and subsequent agreements’. i welcome the visit yesterday of the unionist leaders, and i take that as a sign of their willingness to engage constructively. the eu has been a source of support for the irish peace process, whether through the barroso taskforce – which must continue – peace funding or support from commissioners delors, wulf-mathies, hübner, hahn and now you, commissioner crețu, all of whom i would thank. this resolution is the result of meaningful cooperation amongst meps from six political parties. the spirit of responsible and meaningful engagement which emanated from the drafting of this resolution needs to be reflected by all the parties at home and by the british and irish governments, as co-guarantors of the good friday agreement. reconciliation may take a long time in ireland, but i believe that it will come – once we all realise that we either lose together or win together.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, many people outside ireland think the troubles are over. although weapons have been decommissioned and ceasefires declared, the irish peace process still has a way to go before real peace is achieved. in fact the peace process will always need reinvigoration and constant monitoring. my son and his family have just moved to the north near belfast so i have been able to observe at first-hand the underlying violent and criminal activities in the community which seem to pass largely unremarked and unchallenged. it seems to me that this antisocial activity is rooted in gangland crime, and social and economic deprivation, rather than any religious or cultural differences. there needs to be a process of refocusing hearts and minds away from violence and the greens are happy to be part of this joint resolution.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i would like to remind the commissioner, just days after the western world has celebrated 25 years since the fall of the berlin wall, that in belfast security walls still stand and divide communities. we may have some form of peace but where is the prosperity? in the same month that the uk was handed the gbp 1.7 billion bill by the european union, northern ireland had to borrow gbp 100 million from the british treasury in order to meet next year’s budget. northern ireland also has the highest rate of unemployment in the uk. may i therefore suggest that rather than the uk handing over gbp 55 million every single day to the european union, a proportion of that money is spent in northern ireland where it is so badly needed. peace is great, and we can all agree on that, but i believe that we have left northern ireland in an economic wilderness following the end of this bloody war. therefore in my opinion, all of the peace sponsors – the uk, the irish republic, the americans, the european union – have failed financially to assist lasting peace, and more still needs to be done. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr brok, the great point is that it is my country, not yours. that is the simple point in all this and the fact is that the commissioner said earlier that eur 350 million will be handed over in the next 10 years. that is actually six days in contributions that we as the uk hand over to the european union. listen, i would love to leave the european union, mr brok, because my country would be freer, more democratic and more prosperous than stuck inside this corrupt organisation. but let me just finish. the real point here is that the peace process is moving forward but equally, economically, northern ireland has stagnated and i believe that if we save money from not contributing to the european union we can invest in northern ireland even more.
madam president, the european union has long been a friend of northern ireland and i am glad tonight to hear that this supportive role will continue in the coming months. northern ireland appreciates that support as we continue to build a peaceful and more prosperous society. we have made tremendous strides forward in recent years towards a more normal, peaceful society. republicans who once engaged in terrorism, having failed to achieve their goals, now share power with unionists in a northern ireland assembly, based on an exclusively peaceful and democratic basis. as we face threats from dissident irish republicanism we must again ensure that politics and the power of democracy wins through. our goal is to build a more prosperous, respectful northern ireland. political stability, the effective functioning of our democratic institutions, is fundamental in building this reality. all recent surveys demonstrate that there is a greater level of support for northern ireland remaining an integral part of the united kingdom than at any time in our history. indeed, such support is based on strong support from both traditions in northern ireland. as we continue with political talks aimed at resolving some of the outstanding problems, including the functionality of government, unionism does so in a positive way. my party wants to normalise government structures, streamline decision-making and make good government in northern ireland easier to deliver. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mrs dodds, you mentioned that the feelings in northern ireland are now very strong towards remaining in the united kingdom, and i agree with that. but if mr nuttall were to have his way and the united kingdom were to leave the european union, would that, in your view, accelerate a reunification drive by the catholic community wanting to join up with dublin, and change the dynamics of the communities altogether?
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question. my reason for saying that there is now stronger support for northern ireland remaining an integral part of the union is based on all the recent life and times surveys that have been carried out independently in northern ireland. these show that more people in northern ireland identify with the union, and more people in northern ireland identify as northern irish as well. that is an interesting development. i do not believe that there is any desire or drive for the reunification of ireland. i do not think this will come – certainly not by 2016 – and it will only be by the support and democratic will of the people. there is no indication that this is the case, and we look forward to being british citizens for a considerable time to come.
madam president, the people of northern ireland have come a long way since the 1997 good friday agreement. the terrible violence in society has become a thing of the past and political institutions are now in place with representatives of all the parties to the troubles. as winston churchill put it so well, ‘jaw-jaw is better than war-war’ and in northern ireland talking together has been the way towards peace. huge steps have been made by individuals and organisations from all parts of a torn society to work together for an inclusive and lasting peace. it is their peace on their terms. but there are still outstanding issues that are getting in the way of full implementation of the peace agreement and these issues must be tackled as soon as possible. continued divisions within communities remain despite efforts to address them, particularly in the areas of schools and housing. socio-economic problems are pushing young people towards a life of crime, resulting in anti-social behaviour that other communities would call vandalism; but with fighting so raw in the memory, these young people are drawn down the route of violence. the eu’s northern ireland peace programme has played, and continues to play, an important role in promoting reconciliation between communities, and over the next five years the eu must continue to help lay the foundations for a true and lasting peace. eu regional funding has also supported economic development. we must thank all those involved with these programmes and we commend their efforts. by reconciling communities, giving hope and opportunities, talking, planning and working together, we can and must help to build a shared society for all the peoples of northern ireland.
madam president, in 2012 the european union won the nobel peace prize, and i quote: ʽfor over six decades contributed to the advancement of peace and reconciliation, democracy and human rights in europeʼ. many people scoffed at that at the time, but i do believe that the eu can play a much greater role internationally in peace and conflict prevention, and i know my constituents in wales want to see us doing that. despite many brave and positive steps over the past years the peace process in northern ireland, as we have heard, still has some way to go. there have been huge achievements in ending violence and bringing different parties together around the table. tackling the causes of conflict to build a sustainable peace and a just society takes long-term focused and sustained effort. that is why the eu peace programmes and the commission task force have been so valuable. this is the very time that we in this parliament can and must show our collective will for lasting peace in northern ireland and offer our practical support to achieve that.
madam president, i never thought to hear the words ʽit is my country, not yoursʼ screamed across this chamber and one wonders what mr nuttall might think of the intervention of the united states in the northern ireland peace process, which was instrumental. labour meps agree with the motion for a resolution and that all aspects of the good friday agreement be implemented as quickly as possible. for me it was an enormous pleasure and privilege to work for a labour secretary of state for northern ireland at a time when a crucial part of the devolution and peace process was delivered: the devolution of criminal justice and policing powers. to get to that point required enormous amounts of effort from all concerned, but the effort was worth it, and the key part of that success was ensuring that everyone had a stake and a say in how their communities were run. a whole new generation is now emerging since the good friday agreement was signed and if this generation is to know nothing of the hatred, bombs, fear and bullets of the past, then we have duty to ensure that this process does not now come to a halt. the northern ireland peace process can show the world the benefits of politics in achieving peace, but the impasse which has been mentioned cannot continue or tomorrowʼs political leaders will have less incentive to take it up. we must do all we can to ensure that the new generation finds that the political process is infinitely preferable to the alternative. this requires effort and a willingness to sit down with your political opponents and i urge all parties to invest politically, emotionally and financially, and to deliver for this and future generations in this most beautiful part of europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr dance, can i take this opportunity to thank you – i assume you are a new member as i have not met you before – for your contribution tonight. it has been very useful. can you also accept from me that the people of northern ireland are terribly and deeply grateful for all the help and support that members of this house has given. they have never taken sides in the debate in northern ireland and that is what is so specific about the strength of this house. and yes, mr brok, you are right – mr nuttall is not here – i would not be convinced that the british government would send that money to northern ireland. so i will wait to see what happens. can i put some facts straight? i would like to pay tribute here tonight to jacques delors and to dr monika wulf-mathies, who was the first commissioner for regional affairs who actually took this peace process forward and she contributed a great deal to that as well.
blue-card answer. – i concur.
madam president, i want to express my admiration for all the people and politicians of ireland, from all different sides, who have managed to show the maturity and amazing strength of character to bring that awful conflict to a point where we can start moving past it. i really admire this. what i would like to say, seeing how far things have now progressed, is: please, we need to have final justice on one or two things. some people need to know what happened, if nothing else. i refer again to the justice for the 21 group who are the families of those killed in the birmingham pub bombings some 40 years ago. they still do not know what happened to their relatives. they still do not know! nobody will come forward with the truth on this. i implore anyone out there, all of the good people of ireland, all the politicians, please, if you will not speak to me, speak to justice for the 21. please let us help these people get some closure and find out what happened. i really, genuinely wish you well, it is a wonderful achievement in ireland. god bless you all, well done.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the recent maritime incursion into cyprus’s exclusive economic zone by turkey is a clear violation of international law under the terms of the law of the sea or unclos. this action is regrettable, and illustrative of the turkish disregard for the reunification process. after the violation it was inevitable that the cyprus government would suspend the reunification talks, and i dismiss the turkish cypriot claims that any process should be linked to upfront hydrocarbon payments before a final settlement is reached. nicosia has offered, in good faith, repeated assurances that both communities will benefit from the future gains afforded by gas revenues. these assurances should be taken by their turkish counterparts as bona fide. gas revenues offer the opportunity of a vital economic boost to both sides and could act as an incentive to the reunification talks. similarly, the early return of varosha/ famagusta to the cyprus government would be a confidence-building measure from the turkish side. finally, it is important to note that ratification of unclos or the law of the sea is a component of the eu acquis and that turkey should be reminded of its commitments to implement the ankara accords and its obligations, as a candidate country, to fully recognise all 28 eu member states, including the republic of cyprus.
madam president, i fully support the cypriot colleagues in my own s&d group who rightly seek to raise a concern affecting their own national sovereignty and concerning proper support for rules of international law, and i am a joint signatory to this resolution. i say to our turkish friends, we in parliament join with commissioner hahn when he calls on turkey to show restraint and to avoid any further actions which could cause friction, but i also welcome the commissioner talking in his speech tonight about the turkish european perspective and the deeper, wider and closer relationship which the european union wants with turkey. i regret that other groups in this parliament have failed to put the joint resolution into a proper context by not supporting a paragraph, now represented by our s&d amendment, also stating our continued commitment to the reunification talks, supporting the work of the un special adviser, and arguing for a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem. i will always try to work in solidarity with our cypriot colleagues, but i always seek to do so recognising the need to promote and not undermine reconciliation, to encourage trust building between both sides, and recognising there can only be a negotiated diplomatic solution both to the current crisis as well as to the long-standing division of the island. i believe trade and economic activity, and in this case the discovery of hydrocarbons, could be a great opportunity for both communities in cyprus, and actually help a settlement, and i ask all colleagues to support these positions and parliament to vote for our amendment. this is an issue of provocation, and this european parliament should show the self-discipline to pass texts which do not themselves further provoke, but which encourage de-escalation in the interests of all.
mr president, we all want a solution to the cyprus problem, and both sides undoubtedly bear some responsibility for the present situation, but frankly it is not helpful when we are trying to find a way of restarting negotiations to produce a one-sided resolution which seeks to place all the blame on turkey and the turkish cypriots or, indeed, for the commissioner to speak in the way that he has at the beginning of his remarks this evening. i hope he is listening now. i do not think he is. are you listening, commissioner? yes. thank you. for the recent causes of the present impasse, we should look to the events of 2004. in may of that year, the republic of cyprus joined the european union and immediately set about blocking any progress, in particular on the undertaking given by the european council the previous month to end the isolation of northern cyprus. if this promise had been kept, none of the difficulties that are being discussed today would have arisen. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – as my colleague, – and, i believe, friend – mr hadjigeorgiou notes full well, i take great pleasure in looking in great detail at all these particular matters. this has not been a debate this evening but a one-sided criticism of northern cyprus and indeed the turkish position. if we want to make any progress on unifying the island – as i am sure we all want to – then the only solution, as we know, is a solution that respects the interests and concerns of both communities on the island. that goes right back to the point that i made about what happened in 2004. we have just got to get over it and we have got to speak in more generous and sympathetic terms to understand the turkish cypriot position. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)
blue-card answer. – i have not actually mentioned the annan plan; i was talking about what happened in 2004. i was referring specifically to the promise made by the european council in april 2004 to end the isolation of northern cyprus. a month later, all that was pushed on one side and we have made little progress since. every now and then we get a glimmer of hope. every now and then something happens which makes us think ‘oh, maybe there is now progress’, but then obstacles are put up. we have got to get over that and we have to find a way ahead that respects the rights and concerns of all the communities in cyprus.
blue-card question. – mr kefalogiannis, you were very eloquent on turkey’s violations of cyprus and of the law of the sea. you are probably aware that the european union has been paying over eur 900 million a year in pre-accession funding to turkey and similar amounts have been allocated for the next five years. are you in favour of these amounts being continued if turkey continues to … (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would very much like to welcome ms thyssen here as our new commissioner, and on behalf of the ecr group, i very much look forward to working with her in the months and years ahead. it seems to me that the three measures that we are looking at are pretty uncontroversial. they are highly technical. it is a standard procedure. i do not really think it is something that this parliament can influence, and i agree completely with a lot of what mr mann has already said. we have often rehearsed the importance of smes to job creation, but here tonight i find it rather strange that we are sitting here to debate agreements which i believe have already been agreed in the council and the eea joint committee. so i am not really sure what our role as a parliament is, apart from being informed, which of course we have been. i do not think we should be wasting parliamentary time on issues where we, as legislators, have no role. not so long ago we listened to mr timmermans, whose role it is to foster better regulation. i would suggest that, as a parliament, we ought to adopt the idea of better regulation to simplify and reduce administrative burdens. i would urge us, as a parliament, to reflect that in our business.
mr president, i am very glad to have the opportunity to say that i believe that mr de graaff’s remarks earlier in the debate broke the rules of this house. i believe his remarks were explicitly racist and xenophobic and promoted racial intolerance in a way that is not acceptable or allowed in the constitution of this house. i would ask you, please, to see that after this debate mr de graaff’s remarks on the record are examined carefully, exactly what he said is scrutinised by the president, and that if he is found to have broken the rules of this house he should be censured and he should not be permitted – and nobody should be permitted – to come back in here with that kind of racist filth that this house is better than and does not accept. on the substance of the debate i disagree with colleagues who said that we do not need to talk about this. i think it is very useful this week to be able to talk about labour mobility in the context of switzerland, norway and iceland, all of which are recipients of hugely disproportionate influxes of eu citizens into their economies. that is what people need to understand: this is not about them coming here; it is actually about us going there. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – freedom of expression is not an absolute right, it is a privilege. you do not have the freedom to say anything you like, anytime you like, to anybody. this house has a constitution which puts limits on the level of abuse and filth that you can bring in here. that man crossed the line and broke the rules and he should not be allowed to do it again.
mr president, so-called welfare reform, welfare cuts, are not about tackling poverty; rather they are an attack on the poor, the disabled and the disadvantaged. in england malnutrition is on the increase and there has been a tenfold increase in those dependent on food banks. people can no longer afford fresh fruit and vegetables but rather are eating junk foods high in saturated fats and sugar. the already high levels of child poverty in the north of ireland will be made worse as a result of the westminster tax and benefit policies. millions have been wasted on an it system that is not fit for purpose, and despite all this the british government, in pursuit of its failed policies, is financially penalising the northern executive. just as the troika and austerity have affected the most vulnerable in the south of ireland, in spain, portugal and greece, british government tory cuts are adversely affecting the most vulnerable in the north of ireland.
mr president, i welcome yesterday’s european court of justice ruling clarifying the right of member states to deny social benefits to migrants not actively looking for a job. this underscores the complete baselessness of the claim that our national welfare systems are under attack from eu labour mobility. it makes clear that the national governments have the necessary tools in hand to address any possible negative effects that are brought about by intra-eu freedom of movement. whatever some on the right may contend, economic policy is too important for us to allow it to be based on phantom stories created by populist parties out of electoral interest. it needs to be based on facts and figures. it is a fact that european immigrants to the uk have made a net fiscal contribution of gbp 20 billion to our economy in the past decade. it is also a fact that migrants from the original 15 member states contributed a staggering 64% more in taxes than they received. the more recent migrants – often vilified in our press – handed over more than 12% more than they received. it is also a fact that migrant entrepreneurs are helping to create jobs. a recent study shows that migrants founded one in every seven uk companies, with fellow eu member states figuring among the top 10 countries of origin of these entrepreneurs. so the free movement of workers is not only a fundamental right, but also a fundamental blessing to our economies. it would be in the strongest interest of all of us if we finally started to acknowledge this important truth.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, whilst i remain a sceptic in this chamber, i must recognise the work put into this by petras auštrevičius and his colleagues. this agreement has gone through the correct parliamentary processes in good time and has been properly debated, unlike the recent association agreement with ukraine, of course, which was rushed through this place in the name of political posturing. this agreement is just one more step in the european union’s eastward expansion and, to my mind, pays scant regard to the ongoing strain in relations with russia. some might suggest that it is possibly another threat to peace in europe. support for greater ties with the european union in moldova is far from universal. when a deal was signed in june thousands protested against it, not to mention another pro-russian breakaway region in transnistria. but, no matter what, in the words of former president van rompuy as ukraine crumbled: you will do it anyway. perhaps this is just a follow-on from when the british prime minister, david cameron, spoke earlier about his desire for a european union to stretch from the atlantic to the urals. why does the european union never learn? the european union seems to like to model itself as the saviour of this continent from the great and savage wars that we have witnessed in the past, the sacrifices that we commemorated only this week. in the wider context of the breakdown of relations between the european union and russia, signing this agreement is potentially dangerous and contrary to the interests of all those who desire peace. the great continental wars should be history and what we currently see shows that the european union’s evangelical expansionism could well prove the complete opposite. what you lot want of course, you get, regardless of the consequences. (cries of ‘shame!’) it is called democracy. we can all speak in this chamber. we have been elected separately. we can all speak… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, allow me to start by apologising on behalf of our rapporteur, tanja fajon, who cannot be here today. i would like to pass on her, and our, collective warm congratulations to moldova on its achievements. following its entry to the visa-free regime with the eu as the first country of the eastern partnership, moldova is today making history again as we form another milestone in its relations with the european union. our message to the people of moldova is how extremely important it is that the benefits and advantages of this agreement are also felt by you. once fully implemented, the agreement will provide for better consumer protection and food safety, improved access to health services, with more diverse and efficient use of energy resources and renewables, and lower energy bills. important reform-minded governance will bring better functioning of the judiciary and a strengthened rule of law and increased transparency. this agreement will not only help moldova integrate into the eu’s internal market and bring benefits for the business sector with more opportunities for smes, but it will also improve trade and investment opportunities and thus contribute to economic recovery and growth. however, this and other agreements should not be characterised as being about spheres of influence. we should signal that we wish for dialogue with russia, not competition, in relation to what is our common neighbourhood. however europe cannot – and must not – be deterred from advancing our relations with moldova and its neighbours if the sovereign governments of this and the other regional countries wish to do so with us. i think it is also right to say that we should not hold this debate without recommitting ourselves to working towards a solution for transnistria. my group believes in moldova’s power to succeed in its efforts to develop a social, prosperous, just and modern society. we want to work together to build together the future of moldova in the interests of the citizens. this is what the people of moldova deserve. moldova’s future is a european future and it is a future within the european union.
blue-card question. – you talk about corruption in moldova and moldova being better off in the european union. would you not agree with me that the european union is so corrupt that it will not in any way aid moldova, but will probably make things a lot worse, considering we have not signed off the books in god knows how many years?
blue-card question. – would you agree with me that, if power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely, the larger the state the larger the risk of corruption, and the worse it is for the people in it; and that further expansion of this growing european federal state can only be bad for the people of europe, and for those in moldova and anyone else who signs an association agreement with it?
blue-card question. – mr paşcu, ahmed ben bella, a farmer who rose in algeria to free his country from the yoke of french colonialism, once said that colonialism is an idea born in the west that drives countries to occupy other countries. do you not agree with me, sir, that this expansion into moldova once again shows that the european union and those who support expansion are the new federalists who wish to be the new colonialists?
blue-card question. – mr president, i found it rather insulting that a fellow member among the meps here suggests that i am the voice of putin merely because i am suggesting that there is colonialism in this chamber. however, i have noticed that there are many eastern european meps who support moldova and are attacking russia. are you, sir, not like so many in this chamber, attacking russia like playground bullies and playground gangs simply because of russia’s history in your country, rather than thinking about the positiveness of the future where we must engage the whole world together? stop acting like children and start acting like grown-ups.
mr president, just to add the words at the end of paragraph 7: ‘and will send its own election observation mission to observe the parliamentary elections of 30 november 2014’. this has been agreed with our epp colleagues.
in writing. – this gave me great cause for concern; there are two fundamentally competing principles at stake here. firstly, i do not believe that politicians should be above the law. for that reason, in general i would tend to vote against defending immunity. nevertheless, the comments made were clearly in the exercise of her duties. i support freedom of speech; defamation in the uk is a civil rather than a criminal matter. i believe that this is the best way. furthermore, i call upon the parliament at other times to adhere to its own rules of procedure. under the rules, immunity in this case should not be waived. i therefore voted to defend immunity because, in my opinion, to do otherwise would be to vote to break our own rules. i must remain consistent in my approach.
in writing. – ukip believes in the rule of law. ana gomes breached the law in her home country, and therefore must face the consequences for that. if she had used her parliamentary privilege in the chamber, that would be a different matter. therefore, i voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the heidi hautala report because i believe it is vital that members of the european parliament are protected in their ability to defend the interests of their constituents in political debate, whether this takes place inside the walls of the european parliament or in the media.
in writing. - i supported this report. i agree it would not be right to waive the immunity of ana gomes for an opinion expressed ‘in the performance of her duties’.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of ana gomes. the request was made by a public prosecutor of the lisbon department of investigation and criminal proceedings in connection with statements made by ms gomes during a television debate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) application made by andersen ireland. andersen ireland was a major employer in rathkeale co. limerick for 37 years and employed over 171 people. this news came as a huge blow to the community as its closure will have a significant, adverse impact on the local and regional economy. i welcome the fact that this now means that the eu will make eur 1.5m available to re-train and help find or create jobs for the former workers who were made redundant. i also welcome the fact that a derogation was put in place which reduced the eligibility threshold of affected workers from 500 people to allow the 171 workers who lost their jobs access this fund. this is another example of the positive assistance the egf can provide and it should be used as much as possible in order to assist those who find themselves out of work through no fault of their own. ballymena’s jti gallaher plant for example is due to close by 2017 with the loss of almost 900 jobs. it clearly falls into the remit of this fund. a bid for assistance should be made.
in writing. – whilst the project itself may well be worthwhile, this state aid is something which i fundamentally cannot accept as a principle at european union level. such decisions should be a matter for individual countries. the principle of subsidiarity would suggest that decisions should be taken at the level closest to the citizen; that is never the case with the egaf.
in writing. – the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. – i voted against this application for the mobilisation of the european adjustment fund. i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money. there is no evidence that it offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market.
in writing. – this is yet another perfect instance of the eu policy putting a business out of commercial viability then the eu using its funds sourced from the uk amongst other member states to deal with the impact by effectively paying dole payments! ukip meps voted against since we do not agree that uk tax payers should fund or support incoherent eu policies and by implication subsidise scenarios that fellow member states should manage.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to globalisation, and providing personalised services to young people not in employment, education or training.
in writing. – i supported this proposal as i agree with the commission that the exceptional circumstances put forward by the irish authorities, namely that the redundancies have a serious impact on regional employment and the local and regional economy and justify a derogation to the 500 redundancies threshold according to article 4(2) of the egf regulation, and that, therefore, ireland is entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation
in writing. – i welcome that today the european parliament approved eu aid to help workers made redundant in andersen ireland limited. the eur 1 501 200 in egf aid approved by parliament will support the reintegration in the labour market of 138 workers made redundant due to the closure of the plant in rathkeale, co. limerick, and the dismissal of the entire workforce. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. – the ecr group fully supports measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, we do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies nor do we believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore the ecr will vote against.
in writing. – whilst the project itself may well be worthwhile, this state aid is something which i fundamentally cannot accept as a principle at european union level. such decisions should be a matter for individual countries. the principle of subsidiarity would suggest that decisions should be taken at the level closest to the citizen; that is never the case with the egaf.
in writing. – the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to the economic crisis, and providing personalised services to young people not in employment, education or training.
in writing. – i voted for this proposal. greece submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in sprider stores s. a. in greece, on 6 june 2014 and supplemented it by additional information as provided by article 8(3) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. this application complies with the requirements for determining a financial contribution from the egf as laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. it is necessary to note that these redundancies will further aggravate the unemployment situation in the country, which has already deteriorated as a result of the economic and financial crisis and is the highest unemployment rate amongst the member states.
in writing. – as usual for the eu another perfect instance of the eu policy putting a business out of commercial viability then the eu using its funds sourced from the uk amongst other member states to deal with the impact effectively by paying dole payments! ukip meps voted against since we do not agree that uk tax payers should fund or support incoherent eu policies and by implication subsidise scenarios that fellow member states should manage.
in writing. – thanks to today’s vote greece was granted egf aid to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in sprider stores s.a. the application relates to 761 workers, with the closure of stores mainly located in central macedonia and attica due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the eur 7 290 900 in aid will pay for occupational guidance, job search assistance, training and re-training and contributions to business start-ups to help workers get back into employment. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. – the ecr group fully supports measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, we do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies nor do we believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore the ecr will vote against.
mr president, every country contiguous to russia has felt the pressure of putinite revanchism, sometimes in the form of oil and gas diplomacy, sometimes, as in the case of ukraine, georgia and of course bessarabia which we are discussing now, in the form of military occupation. the way in which the west has responded, the way in which the european union in particular has responded, has been an unfortunate middle way. we could have decided, when putin made his offer of a eurasian customs union stretching from lisbon to vladivostok, to treat russia as a strategic ally and overlook its domestic failures; or we could have decided to buttress the states on its border and to pursue a forward policy. what made no sense is to goad the kremlin without any plan to follow through, and the people who are paying the price are not we, comfortable in western europe, but those in the marcher countries.
mr president, our party and our group have opposed this amendment and the further expansion of moldova into the european union. we have made it clear that once again the european union is acting like an aggressive colonialist. just like those countries, including my own, that decided in the past that we needed to ensure that we had economic control of countries within our sphere of influence, the european union is ensuring that they will control moldova. in doing so, they are acting like children by ensuring that they poke the bear of russia which also has a sphere of influence in the region. instead of being sensible and negotiating with russia, there are those in this chamber who believe that by attacking russia in this way they are atoning for the sins of russia in the past. this is not sensible diplomacy, this is not sensible politics, but one does not expect sense from the european union.
in writing. – given the on-going breakdown in relations between the west and russia, and in particular the humanitarian and military crisis in ukraine, it is important for all actors to pay particular regard to potential consequences of their actions. the signing of this association agreement with moldova, especially with regard to transnistria, risks further deepening the crisis. with this in consideration we voted against.
in writing. – an association agreement is an intermediate step towards eu accession. i do not believe that moldova should join the european union, and therefore to be consistent i also oppose that intermediate step. furthermore, given the complex politics of the region at the present time, i have concerns that this agreement has the potential to make certain tensions worse rather than better.
in writing. – an association agreement is one step away from full eu membership. considering the on-going breakdown in relations between russia and the west, and in particular the eu, not to mention the humanitarian and military crisis in the ukraine; it is important that all participants pay full regard to potential consequences of their actions. the signing of this association agreement with moldova, especially with regards to transnistria, risks further deepening the crisis. with this in consideration, i voted against.
in writing. - i welcome the agreement as a very important step forward in our relations with the republic of moldova. it must now be implemented in full so that the benefits and advantages of the agreement are felt by the people.
in writing. – i welcome this agreement. the dcfta includes several provisions aimed at reforming the republic of moldova’s trade legislation and trade-related policies in line with, and on the basis of, the eu acquis, which will provide for the modernisation of the country’s economy and an improved and more predictable business environment, including for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. – today i welcomed the ratification of the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. in the last few years the republic of moldova has made significant progress in reforms and in strengthening relations with the eu. the association agreement is part of a broader process of enhancing the european perspective of the republic of moldova politically, economically and socially. moldova is making history being the first county of the eastern partnership to introduce a visa-free regime with the eu. the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) between the eu and the republic of moldova represents one of the most significant mutual benefits of the agreement, bearing incontrovertible importance for trade and economic growth, jobs creation, prosperity and stability in the republic of moldova.
mr president, an association agreement is one step away from full eu membership. considering the ongoing situation and breakdown in relationships between russia and the west and in particular the eu, not to mention the humanitarian and military crisis that we are seeing in ukraine, it is important that all the participants involved treat this sensibly. the signing of this association agreement with moldova, especially with regard to transnistria, risks further deepening the crisis. with this in consideration we voted against.
in writing. – given the on-going breakdown in relations between the west and russia, and in particular the humanitarian and military crisis in ukraine, it is important for all actors to pay particular regard to potential consequences of their actions. the signing of this association agreement with moldova, especially with regard to transnistria, risks further deepening the crisis. with this in consideration we voted against.
in writing. – an association agreement is an intermediate step towards eu accession. i do not believe that moldova should join the european union, and therefore to be consistent i also oppose that intermediate step. furthermore, given the complex politics of the region at the present time, i have concerns that this agreement has the potential to make certain tensions worse rather than better.
in writing. – given the on-going breakdown in relations between the west and russia, and in particular the humanitarian and military crisis in ukraine, it is important for all actors to pay particular regard to potential consequences of their actions. the signing of this association agreement with moldova, especially with regard to transnistria, risks further deepening the crisis. with this in consideration we voted against.
in writing. – given the on-going breakdown in relations between the west and russia, and in particular the humanitarian and military crisis in ukraine, it is important for all actors to pay particular regard to potential consequences of their actions. the signing of this association agreement with moldova, especially with regard to transnistria, risks further deepening the crisis. with this in consideration we voted against.
in writing. – i voted for this association agreement between the european union and moldova. i support measures that liberalise trade, open new markets and provide more economic opportunities. this deal, creating a deep and comprehensive free trade area, will allow businesses and investors to engage in further trade with our eastern neighbours.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the petras auštrevičius recommendation because i believe it is important that we acknowledge moldova’s success in achieving a number of important political and economic reforms. the moldova case proves the value of the association process as a tool for advancing peace and prosperity in the eu’s neighbourhood, which is crucial at the current time of increased tension with moscow. much work however remains to be done. swift ratification of the agreement is needed to encourage chisinau to make further progress on tackling corruption, addressing human rights violations and improving public administration. last but not least, the agreement is crucial to help improve trade and investment relations between moldova and the eu and open up business opportunities for smes from both sides.
in writing. – given the on-going breakdown in relations between the west and russia, and in particular the humanitarian and military crisis in ukraine, it is important for all actors to pay particular regard to potential consequences of their actions. the signing of this association agreement with moldova, especially with regard to transnistria, risks further deepening the crisis. with this in consideration ukip meps voted against.
in writing. – i am very pleased with the ratification of the eu-moldova association agreement. this deal will form the backbone of strengthened political association and economic integration between the eu and moldova and help the republic to develop further, economically and socially, creating new opportunities and decent work for all.
in writing. – i voted for this proposal. the dcfta will create new opportunities for trade and economic growth and will benefit moldovan businesses and citizens directly, whereas the eu will benefit from smoother commercial flows and better investment conditions in moldova. the dcfta includes several provisions aiming at reforming moldova’s trade and trade-related policies, in line with, and on the basis of, the eu acquis. this will provide for the modernisation of the economy, anchoring of eu investment in the country, and better and more predictable policy environment.
in writing. – i voted in support of the recommendation by petras auštrevičius on the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. in order to ensure the success of the association agreement, it should be implemented thoroughly and steadily by both partners. the eu should assist moldova in adopting the relevant laws and implementing arrangements and should monitor their actual enforcement.
in writing. – given the on-going breakdown in relations between the west and russia, and in particular the humanitarian and military crisis in ukraine, it is important for all actors to pay particular regard to potential consequences of their actions. the signing of this association agreement with moldova, especially with regard to transnistria, risks further deepening the crisis. with this in consideration we voted against.
mr president, a couple of weeks ago the president of parliament, martin schulz, said that the northern ireland peace process was a great european achievement. well, fine, whatever floats your boat, martin. it is obviously an achievement that there should be peace. no one would want to go back to the violence that scarred a whole generation. i personally have always felt that i have a bit of a stake in power-sharing, being one side ulster catholic and on the other scots presbyterian. there is, though, a democratic price that we should acknowledge. we have created a system where almost all the parties are almost always in power. they are scrabbling to find public sector sinecures for their supporters, and in consequence, although we have just heard about these supposed cuts, the amount of gdp in northern ireland spent by the state is 71%. it is more than it was in the soviet union at the height of the cold war. we all know, being democratic politicians, that the thing that keeps you on your toes is an opposition, a prospective future government. until we can move to a full democratisation, with an opposition involved in the stormont assembly, we cannot call it a properly democratic state.
in writing. – ukip wishes to see peace in northern ireland. however, we feel this resolution does not fully grasp the situation. we note with concern the misuse of eu peace money by groups with a divisive agenda rooted in keeping old wounds open. we feel that the peace process would be infinitely more successful if the eu was not involved.
in writing. – ukip wishes to see peace in northern ireland. however, we feel this resolution does not fully grasp the situation. we note with concern the misuse of eu peace money by groups with a divisive agenda rooted in keeping old wounds open. we feel that the peace process would be infinitely more successful if the eu was not involved.
in writing. – the situation in northern ireland is a hugely complex one. i am not convinced that the resolution shows a full understanding of the situation. whilst undoubtedly well-meaning, i am concerned that eu interference may well prove to be a hindrance rather than a help.
in writing. – ukip wishes to see peace in northern ireland. however, we feel this resolution does not fully grasp the situation. we note with concern the misuse of eu peace money by groups with a divisive agenda rooted in keeping old wounds open. we feel that the peace process would be infinitely more successful if the eu was not involved.
in writing. – this debate is further manifestation of the importance the european union places on further political progress in northern ireland. i recognise and indeed welcome the supportive role played by the european institutions in recent years, in both political will and financial resource, and it is my hope that this will continue as we progress towards a more prosperous northern ireland. as we all know, language is vitally important in ascertaining neutrality. my hope is that my colleagues in this parliament and within the commission will remain a neutral ally to the political process in northern ireland. i regret therefore that those drafting this joint resolution have made a number of factual inaccuracies in its text. furthermore, in calling for the full implementation of the belfast agreement, it fails to recognise that accord has been superseded by subsequent political agreements that have brought a much greater degree of accountability to our system of government and consequently the longest period of stable devolution in our history. that it does not reference innocent victims of terrorism, and their needs, is deeply regrettable. the core elements of this motion for a resolution have my full support. however, due to these inaccuracies and deficiencies i regretfully had to abstain on the vote.
in writing. – ukip wishes to see peace in northern ireland. however, we feel this resolution does not fully grasp the situation. we note with concern the misuse of eu peace money by groups with a divisive agenda, rooted in keeping old wounds open. we feel that the peace process would be infinitely more successful if the eu was not involved.
in writing. – ukip wishes to see peace in northern ireland. however, ukip meps feel this resolution does not fully grasp the situation. we noted with concern the misuse of eu peace money by groups with a divisive agenda rooted in keeping old wounds open. ukip meps feel that the peace process would be infinitely more successful if the eu was not involved.
in writing. – i supported the resolution as i am concerned that the implementation of the peace process has reached an impasse. all parties to the process must work constructively towards a lasting resolution of the conflict and the full implementation of the good friday agreement and subsequent agreements for a long-lasting and enduring peace.
in writing. – i voted for this resolution on northern ireland which expresses concern that continued violent, criminal and anti-social activity by fringe elements is undermining the peace process; it stresses the need to combat such criminal activity by tackling existing economic challenges such as unemployment and low incomes and living standards; it stresses that the continuing level of violence and intimidation has to be overcome via the broad participation of respective communities with the support of all relevant agencies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the peace process in northern ireland because i believe it is crucial that all parties return to the negotiating table to overcome the current stalemate in the peace process, which continues to pose a severe threat to the well-being of north irish citizens. if we want peace talks to be a success, they should be underpinned by a long-term strategy to improve social conditions and living standards. although unemployment rates decreased substantially over the past years, unemployment is still high at 11%, while wages are in decline. social marginalisation being one of the main causes of violence and criminality, it is vital that financial support from the eu’s european regional development fund is invested in a strategic way to boost quality education and jobs. because it is simply impossible for peace to take root in poverty.
in writing. – today i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the peace process in northern ireland. it requires continuing efforts and there are concerns that its implementation has reached an impasse. the eu’s peace programme is aimed at strengthening progress towards a peaceful and stable society and promoting reconciliation by assisting activities and projects which help to reconcile communities and contribute towards long-lasting and enduring peace. i support the initiative to convene all-party talks and encourage all parties to engage in these talks positively with a view to resolving all outstanding issues, to the benefit of all, in northern ireland and the border region of ireland.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution urging all parties to restart the stalled northern ireland peace process. an end to all violent conflict in the european union is essential and it is in the best interest of all parties to work constructively towards a lasting resolution and full implementation of the good friday agreement.
in writing. – ukip wishes to see peace in northern ireland. however, we feel this resolution does not fully grasp the situation. we note with concern the misuse of eu peace money by groups with a divisive agenda rooted in keeping old wounds open. we feel that the peace process would be infinitely more successful if the eu was not involved.
mr president, in the early 1990s the two sides in cyprus were inching towards a deal. the essence of the deal was pretty clear. it would be a land for peace deal. turkish cypriots would give up an amount of territory in exchange for recognition as equal partners in a bizonal, bicommunal federation. as that deal was on the point of being signed, in blundered the european union with its unilateral recognition of one side claiming jurisdiction over the whole island. immediately one side lost the incentive to negotiate, and the chance for a peaceful confederation was lost. it is not turkey whose actions are causing tensions in cyprus, it is the european union by its one-sided intervention. one of the two communities voted for the eu peace plan and has been blockaded and punished. the other side voted against it and has been recognised and rewarded. there is a basic injustice here, not only for the people of turkish cyprus, but there is a real injustice to turkey, a friend and ally which in nato guarded our flank against the bolshevists for a generation and which we may one day ask to do the same against the jihadis beyond. this is no way to treat an ally.
in writing. – there is a serious concern about tensions in cyprus, which i understand and respect. nevertheless, i remain unconvinced that this report will achieve the aims stated. i respect the sovereignty of all involved, and believe that the best solution is a solution which takes into account the will of the people in cyprus. ultimately, this matter should be resolved at the ballot box.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on turkish actions in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus because i am concerned about the presence of turkish warships within cyprus’ eez. this not only constitutes a serious infringement of cyprus’ sovereignty, but is also extremely detrimental to the reunification talks between greek and turkish cypriots. peaceful negotiations are the only possible solution to this conflict, which has posed a heavy social and economic burden on all communities in cyprus and has posed a threat to stability in the eastern mediterranean for four decades.
in writing. – i supported the motion for resolution as i am concerned about turkey’s presence in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. i also strongly support eu enlargement negotiations with turkey and the continuation of the reunification talks between greek and turkish cypriots.
in writing. – i voted for this resolution which stresses that the republic of cyprus has the full and sovereign right to explore the natural resources within its eez, and that the turkish maritime surveys must be seen as both illegal and provocative; it demands that turkish vessels operating in waters in and around the eez of cyprus be withdrawn immediately.
in writing. – i voted in support of the resolution stating our concerns about turkey’s presence in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. the european parliament calls on turkey to withdraw its ships from european territory and respect the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus. i support the reunification talks between greek and turkish cypriots and trust that the continuation of the talks, with a negotiated, diplomatic approach, is the answer to the cyprus problem. the s&d group believe that the exploitation of hydrocarbons will benefit both sides in cyprus and the entire region.
mr president, the world keeps expanding into more and more countries. the trend is away from great multinational empires and towards independent states, south sudan being one of the most recent. everywhere, of course, except in this continent, which is going in the opposite direction. here alone, powers are being centralised, decisions instead of being devolved are being taken by a smaller and more remote elite. i offer for your consideration the idea that this may be connected to the fact that we are now living in the only continent on the planet that is experiencing no economic growth at all. every other continent has bounced back from the crash. we in the eurozone particularly – we in the european union – stand on the brink, incredibly, of our third recession in six years. why? because we have taken more and more power away from local people and centralised it with remote elites in brussels. we are therefore the only place in the world that is falling behind.
in writing. – i voted against the green/efa amendment. the phrase ‘reproductive rights’ could be taken to refer, for example, to abortion on demand. south sudan is a sovereign nation, and it is for them – not the european parliament – to determine their policy on this matter. nevertheless, i agree with much of the sentiment of their resolution. no-one should be the subject of discrimination due to their gender, and i applaud the green/efa group for drawing attention to an issue. but i could not support the specific wording of their text.
in writing. - i am appalled by the impact of the enduring conflict on the citizens of south sudan. therefore i voted in favour of the resolution on the humanitarian situation there. reports from the ground are mind-blowing: 1.4 million are displaced, at least 10 000 lives are lost, children are recruited as soldiers and thousands are suffering sexual violence. apart from mobilising resources to respond to the immediate needs of the victims to the conflict, is vital that the eu, together with the international community, offers it support to a bottom-up approach shouldered by civil society that enables the creation of a social fabric in which all ethnic communities can peacefully live together. the current conflict makes clear that the technocratic approach to state-building applied by the international community at the birth of the south sudanese state has failed. we will have to keep this important lesson in mind if we want to be successful in helping to bring about sustainable peace.
in writing. – i supported the resolution as i am very concerned about the resumption of violence in south sudan which has caused the deaths of more than 10 000 people. ceasefire must be reached immediately. the international humanitarian aid situation in south sudan is also very worrying. it needs to be reprogrammed to ensure that the people of south sudan have food security and do not return to emergency or famine levels.
in writing. – i voted for this resolution which calls on the international community to honour its funding commitments to south sudan and the region and to mobilise resources in order to respond immediately to the worsening humanitarian situation in south sudan; it welcomes, in this connection, the eu’s contribution to addressing the humanitarian crisis in south sudan and asks the member states to find a solution for funding the increasing number of crises, in line with their international commitments.
in writing. – i voted in favour of a resolution concerning the humanitarian situation in south sudan. despite a provisional peace agreement signed last week, fighting between the forces of the government and the opposition continue and risk intensifying, causing casualties and terror amongst civilians, as well as tension in an already instable region. the s&d group expressed concerns today about the international humanitarian aid situation in south sudan, underlining that this aid must ensure that the people of south sudan have food security and do not return to emergency or famine levels. the people of south sudan should receive unrestricted access to basic services (water, healthcare, food etc.) in all areas. i support the efforts of the inter-governmental authority on development and the african union to promote an inclusive dialogue towards peace and reconciliation.
in writing. – the republic of south sudan is the world's most fragile state and one of the poorest, most underdeveloped countries; the un has declared it a level-3 emergency – the worst level of humanitarian crisis. the on-going civil war, started in december 2013, has seen serious humanitarian, security, political, economic and social consequences, including 1.7 million people fleeing their homes and nearly half a million seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. the eu has been providing assistance, worth over eur 245 million, reaching 2.4 million people with food, clean water, healthcare, sanitation, shelter and protection. this level of support needs to continue for the violence is expected to intensify during the coming dry season that could potentially lead to famine in 2015. the neighbouring countries and regional blocs – igad and au – along with the eu and the international community, need to work closely together to improve the security in the country and search for long-term solutions to build a stronger, more modern state.
mr president, let me start by associating myself and our group with your words about the synagogue bombing. we are talking here about terrible death and bloodshed, and the tone in which we deal with it is really important. secondly, i signal that my group wants a vote on recognition but wants to achieve consensus. we have said to other groups in this parliament that we want to be as flexible as possible and to try to assemble a big majority. to my friend and colleague mr preda i would say that we have had some discussions on this. he has indicated that the ppe group currently has a set position and is not prepared to go beyond it. we all understand the sensitivities. i believe compromises are available, but the position of the ppe tonight is that recognition can only be an outcome of talks. that, in fact, is the current situation. however, saying that this is a contribution towards the two-state solution and that peace will not be achieved without talks are, for example, possibilities. there is wording there from which we could negotiate – as the alde group has said – recognising the debate and supporting the process. i believe a consensus is possible, but what concerns me – and we are delaying the vote as we speak – is that there is no indication at the moment of preparedness to look for that consensus. therefore i would like us to go ahead with the negotiation on a text to see if we can achieve consensus. in conclusion, we see sweden, ireland, spain, the uk, and soon france, voting for recognition. does parliament want to lose influence by coming in at the end of that process, or do we want to shape the debate?
mr president, do you think that disgraceful speech enhances the credibility of this parliament, or not?
mr president, in this house we have just had one of the most serious accusations that could be levelled at anyone; we have had 24 members of this parliament called racist. i cannot imagine anything much more serious that could be said. that is in direct breach of rule 11, which states that members of this parliament shall treat each other with respect in accordance with the principles laid down. (applause from the right) when there is such a breach, under rule 165 and rule 166, you should call the member to order. you have not done so. why not? (applause from the right)
mr president, i want to pick up on what my colleague mr arnott was saying. i feel that, irrespective of anybody’s political views in this parliament, there was a clear inference from what mr verhofstadt said. i would ask you to look at the relevant rules much more closely. there was a serious suggestion and a serious allegation. perhaps mr verhofstadt would like to ask my colleague sitting next to me, mr bashir, whether he is anti-islamic.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i would like to make the following remarks to mr juncker. this is an ugly tax scandal that will not go away. the stain of deceit has seeped into you and, the longer you stay in that seat, the further the stain will seep up the chain behind you throughout the commission. the stain is deep, because here in this chamber today you have said that you are not a friend of big business; yet, whilst you were the leader of luxembourg, you permitted 240 multinationals and corporations to enter into aggressive corporate tax avoidance. if that is what not being a friend is, i would love to see what being an enemy is. some of these companies paid as little as one per cent, and yet you stood through the elections and said you wanted to stand in solidarity with the people of europe. yes, the people of europe are in austerity, they have high rates of unemployment and there is poverty sweeping across europe like a plague. yet you ensured that the people of luxembourg benefited from your largesse. you said that these were extreme circumstances, not just for your country; yet i do not see germany or britain or france or italy having 240 companies with corporations earning one per cent. you talked of changes of behaviour, but the only behaviour that needs to change is yours. you ask others in this chamber to attack us, simply because we are asking where the solidarity was when you put greece through the troika, knowing millions of euros from dodgy tax deals with multinationals were flowing through luxembourg’s coffers. where is the solidarity when italy has 55% unemployment and luxembourg does not? where is solidarity when you stood in this chamber and said that these deals were done in the name of europe? when i look at the people in this chamber, you have to ask yourselves whether you are the moral guardians of the people who voted for you. are you going to be seen as the members who vote for your own and keep your own in place, or are you actually going to listen to the people and say that from time to time we must get rid of those who do not have the european ideal that you say that you believe in? (applause from the right)
blue-card question. – i believe that countries should act quickly when we have disasters or crises such as the ebola virus, where nations acted shamefully slowly and without comprehending the reality of the situation, but i do not want to see the wrong kind of aid – aid which engenders dependence; aid to countries with nuclear or space programmes; aid which enforces a western world-view on other cultures; or aid for members of the g20. do you accept that there are potential dangers with poor implementation, as so often happens at eu level?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the eu claims to be a development actor concerned about the world’s poor. as we approach the millennium development goal deadlines, perhaps we should examine what the eu has done for – or should i say to – the world’s poor. perhaps we could talk about the eu pesticides directive, which prevents african countries using effective anti-malaria sprays. as a result, 90% of the world’s malaria deaths occur in africa, the majority of them being children under the age of three. or perhaps we could talk about the eu fishing boats plundering the fish stocks off the horn of africa. this has destroyed the livelihoods of peaceful fishermen, who resorted to piracy against container ships in order to stay alive. or perhaps we could talk about the eu’s vindictive behaviour in trade talks, where the world’s poor are banned from exporting their most successful produce to european markets, stopping them from trading their way out of poverty and debt. as you can see, the eu is an actor in international development, but a spiteful and an inadequate one. the eu has so starved an impoverished africa that it is perhaps no surprise that so many migrants risk their lives to escape it, but thankfully countries like india are coming to the rescue. india has invested money in high-yield crops in west africa. this is infinitely more useful than the feel-good dance troupes the eu funded in the same region. the eu should stop impoverishing the world’s poor and let them have a chance to live. there are positive development actors in the world. the eu just is not one of them. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr gill, you have explained what you stand against and what foreign aid should be used for. what is your positive vision for foreign aid?
blue-card answer. – i think there is a real danger that we are entering into a period of aid fatigue. in my country we are already spending gbp 21 million each and every day on foreign aid, and this is on top of the money we are contributing to the eu budget which goes towards development aid. no one would object to disaster or emergency aid, but i am afraid that much development aid is objectionable. instead of the many priorities that we see in this report, maybe we should have one priority, which should be to eradicate malaria – the world’s biggest killer.
mr president, as this parliament’s long-standing rapporteur on corporate responsibility, i had the huge privilege of being part of the european delegation at the rio+20 summit for sustainable development and there, with many others, put the argument about the green economy – that capital accounting should be reflected in national economic accounts, something which was pioneered by the united nations environment programme – and advanced the argument, in common with many from within the business community, that that should apply to companies as well in terms of sustainability reporting within their own accounts. we made huge progress at rio. the global corporate sustainability reporting coalition pushed this agenda. it was not us politicians; it was not ngos and trade unions; it was investors, 77 of them, representing some two trillion dollars of assets under management. we got paragraph 47, encouraging sustainablity reporting, but now i see the outcome document of the open working group in what is prepared for next year in the un, and it simply, once again, says: encourage sustainability reporting by business. we pushed that agenda in rio. i appeal to the commissioner to push and adopt this agenda. business wants us to do it. we cannot get sustainable development without business itself being sustainable. france and denmark, two of our member states, have been friends of paragraph 47, the paragraph in that previous outcome document. let us build on what they are doing and let us give european support; and, if we do so, companies will, as we have done within europe within our non-financial reporting directive, adopt these practices. but we do not just want to see it happening in europe; we want to see it happening in the world.
blue-card question. – ms westphal, as a social democrat, you were asking basically for more money, or for more money to be spent sooner. can i ask you where you think that money comes from? does it, for example, come from the european union taxpayer, and do you perhaps think that there are any costs when that money comes from the european union taxpayer?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there is a tradition in the westminster parliament that in one’s ‘maiden speech’ one makes reference to and pays tribute to the area one represents in a way that is relevant to the question in hand. in line with that tradition, as this is my first speech as an mep the appropriate reference is the unesco world heritage site – the derwent valley mills – which runs from the city of derby, through amber valley and into the derbyshire dales, a site i was proud to chair for four years. it stands to benefit from erdf funding and yet could be beset by similar sorts of eu-sourced problems that this question seeks to highlight: bureaucratic delay and not setting out parameters clearly. what i speak in support of tonight is a cross-party question, and that strengthens the concerns expressed. it also demonstrates my political motto in action: ‘work in the world as it is as well as working to change it’. support for this question does not tie me, my delegation or my group into support for all aspects of regional and cohesion funding. as my hero, the great samuel johnson, put it in 1753, ‘every man amuses himself with projects which he knows to be improbable, and which, therefore, he resolves to pursue without daring to examine them.’ well, we are at least going some way towards examining them through this question, and i hope our actions will have a beneficial effect for funding partners, especially our key friends in local government, for recipients and, most important of all, our taxpayers, as i was delighted to hear commissioner creţu refer to in her comments already.
in writing. – the north west region of england benefits from millions of pounds in european funding which goes to support projects around the region; the next round of european structural and investment funds is worth more than £1,132m to my region between now and 2020. these projects create jobs and grow our economy. however, i am extremely concerned that by scrapping regional development agencies, and putting in place 39 local economic partnerships (leps), which are not democratically accountable, the uk government has put the region's funds at risk as the role of leps has not been adequately explained to the european commission and they have not been proven as fit for purpose to oversee and dispense european funding. any gap in funding as a result could have a serious and negative effect on excellent projects across my region. european money has been key in ensuring the development of my region and i do not wish to see any delays in this vital investment. i urge the uk government and the commission to agree the programme for funding as quickly as possible.
mr president, i was specifically mentioned by the president – in a very friendly way, by the way – and it is customary, under the rules, that i have the opportunity to respond for 30 seconds or whatever it is.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, in view of your earlier exchange, i have to say that i wonder why it is that establishment politicians who call themselves liberals are in fact – and in reality – always so thoroughly illiberal. as president, you obviously take your cue from the chair of your group, mr verhofstadt, whose currency, as we saw earlier on today, is almost always abuse and not – as it should be – debate. anyway, i would like to take the opportunity to respond to mr leichtfried’s very graciously-put question – and i would just point out that the distinguished colleague on my right is not a member of my group, as the president seems to think. perhaps you will be better informed next time you chair a session of parliament, even a comparatively minor and technical session like this. to respond to mr leichtfried, the united kingdom applies its own judgement on these matters in determining what we should, or should not, export, but i – and other people in the united kingdom – entirely respect the right of other countries to apply their own judgement on what should or should not be exported. we do not believe that this should be subbed out to the unelected commission. the significance of dual use is that, in order to export anything on the dual-use list, businesses and exporters in the united kingdom need to get permission from the commission first. to be clear, despite the charming introduction from chairman langer, the question is misplaced. the dual-use framework simply gives yet more power to the commission to designate what can or cannot be exported. the united kingdom is a leader in world trade and has been a leader of world trade for hundreds of years. the dual-use regime is just simply unacceptable.
mr president, i really welcome mr timmermans’ remarks this evening. i think that he understands the importance and i believe that he means what he says. impact assessments form part of better law-making – better regulation – and reducing the cost of regulation for businesses is absolutely crucial for growth and jobs. we need a regulatory framework that fosters innovation, skilled jobs and access to world markets. it is important that we recognise that the needs of all businesses are not the same. there is no one-size-fits-all, and each type needs a tailored solution that will help them. i think we, as meps, must make full use of the impact assessment unit we have in parliament, and we need to go further. i would like to ask the commission specifically for impact assessments to be published when a proposal goes out for consultation, a concrete burden-reduction target and specific exemptions for microenterprises.
madam president, the last time i was here i spoke about the european youth initiative, the youth guarantee and the failure of the uk government in the second year of the scheme to draw down any of these funds. this evening i need to take the opportunity to talk about the european structural and investment fund money, which is not being remitted by the commission because they are very concerned that the uk’s local enterprise partnerships are not suitably accountable and transparent democratic institutions to receive european money. the uk government is actually perfectly happy with this, because they do not match fund money, and the result is that these crucial funds have not been drawn down. i appeal to the commission and the uk government to sort this out now.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, today we are looking at the employment and social aspects of the eu 2020 strategy, but our resolution also reminds us that the strategy is designed to cover three elements: the smart, the sustainable and the inclusive. if we are not bearing all three parts in mind, as our resolution recalls, we are not actually going to be moving forward, because it is that integration and cooperation which gives us that direction. we are also very clear that the search for growth is not an end in itself. it is more about political choices to reduce inequalities and to tackle poverty. the benefits need to be spread throughout society and not just concentrated in the hands of those that are already rich. it is clear that we are moving away from what, in our view, were already pretty unambitious poverty reduction targets. but it is also clear that work in itself is not the answer. if you look, for example, at the report of the joseph rowntree foundation which was published yesterday in the uk, 50% of those in the uk who are in poverty or at risk of poverty are in work. social security benefits are important; they are a key stabiliser, and they actually give people a base from which to be able to move forward. as others have also been saying, the quality of work – decent work, a job you can build a life on – is also a key element of a job-rich recovery and this strategy. so we do need to look at the abusive practices that we have. we need to look at the way in which people are working many, many hours and still actually cannot afford to live a decent life. it is not enough for us to end the biting austerity measures – which have had such a destructive effect on so many lives – if we are not engaged in a socially-just transition which is going to tackle inequality and move us towards a low-carbon economy, which is also part of the eu 2020 strategy. the issue of bureaucracy and administration costs for businesses is important, but removing that does not necessarily give you a better society with decent work either. you have to look at the outcome of what you are doing. we very much welcome the council’s words about the balancing of the social and economic dimension, because we think that the reaction to the financial crisis has been one of stand-alone economics and that it has not taken into account the need to actually develop people’s lives. so, yes, we would agree that new investment is needed, but we should not forget – as the commissioner has said – that we need to make the money that we are already spending through the structural funds – including the social fund – work properly. parliament has an oversight role there too. and finally i also very much welcome the words of the council on the reference to governance. it is not just about social partners and the engagement of local and regional authorities; civil society also has a key role to play in this area, and it needs to be there as part of the discussion as well as part of the delivery.
madam president, in this review i think we must really focus on areas where the eu can add real value in helping member states achieve the 2020 targets. i am happy to see some of our ecr amendments included in the text. it is so important that we improve the leadership and the management and the entrepreneurial skills among young people so that young people can actually start their own businesses; they can become employers and not just employees. i started my first business when i was 22, and there are others in this house that started businesses in their teens. i think that there is no shortage of ideas and inventions across europe. do you know that in the united kingdom – my country – four thousand inventions are copyrighted every year, and three-quarters of them come from birmingham and the west midlands region? so let us make sure that these innovations can lead to real businesses and real jobs by enabling those young people to have those entrepreneurial skills.
madam president, if i could sum up the europe 2020 programme so far, i think it would be with one word, and that would be ‘shambles’. if it was not such a serious subject it would be a joke. your headline targets of 75% of 20 to 64 year olds being in employment, and of wanting 20 million fewer people at risk of poverty, are looking a little bit shaky, aren’t they? i would urge you to have a tour of southern europe and ask how it is getting on. this top-down model of eu control backed by billions being thrown at every crackpot project you can think of is helping absolutely nobody. the money would be better spent by accountable politicians in our own countries. the uk currently gives gbp 55 million a day to the eu, while it is cutting back frontline public services and jobs. it is as an absolute disgrace, and this, added to all the red tape and bureaucracy that the eu spews out, holds back the economy and businesses from creating jobs and growth. it is the eu that is responsible for this lack of growth. but this sums up the eu because whatever it touches goes bad; its targets are missed and its rules are either broken or, even worse, ignored.
madam president, when hearing earlier from, for instance, the commissioner and the ppe coordinator and other ppe speakers about the importance of the fight against precariousness and the need for quality – not just quantity – of jobs, i was reminded of molière when he wrote ‘je vis de bonne soupe, et non de beau langage’. talk is cheap, but when it comes to actually doing things, there always seems to be a reason why not. what we actually need is a proper implementation of the temporary agency workers directive, not more abuse of the swedish derogation by the uk government. we need eu-level action against zero hours contracts, against 1.4 million people being exploited; and very importantly, commissioner, we need a fundamental revision of the original posting of workers directive to stop workers in the west midlands being undercut by what they think is the eu.
in writing. – i voted for this report which is fully consistent with the aims of encouraging investment and innovation in europe’s railways. railways form a key part of the eu’s infrastructure and are thus an important tool for economic development. at present key aspects of my own country’s rail policy are controlled from london where matters of scottish concern are a low priority. it is essential that the scottish parliament gains full control over scotland’s railways so that we can encourage proper development in line with our eu partners.
in writing. – the protocol to the convention makes a useful contribution to the regulation at international level in its area. it is therefore desirable that the provisions of that instrument which concern matters falling within the exclusive competence of the union be applied as soon as possible.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. according to the proposal the objective of the rail protocol is to facilitate the financing of high-value railway rolling stock by creating a strong international guarantee for creditors, whether these are sellers on credit or institutions supplying credit for such sales. the commission emphasises that this should not only encourage capital investment in the rail sector, but also benefit the creation of a genuine lease market for mobile railway equipment in europe.
in writing. – i voted in support of the decision on the approval of the protocol to the convention on international interests in mobile equipment on matters specific to railway rolling stock. according to the proposal, the objective of the rail protocol is to facilitate the financing of high-value railway rolling stock by creating a strong international guarantee for creditors. the commission emphasises that this should not only encourage capital investment in the rail sector, but also benefit the creation of a genuine lease market for mobile railway equipment in europe. the proposal points out that the rail protocol is also consistent with the objective of supporting the shift to greener and more sustainable modes of transport. the united kingdom has notified the president of the council that it wishes to take part in the adoption and application of this decision in accordance with article 3 of protocol no 21.
in writing. – whilst i support the principle that there should be freedom in this respect, i was elected as a member of the european parliament for a party which seeks withdrawal from the european union. if this vote had been in a national parliament, i would have supported such a motion.
in writing. - i supported giving parliamentʼs consent to this convention which will give certainty to eu companies trading outwith the eu.
in writing. – i supported giving consent to this convention as it would ensure greater legal certainty for international exclusive choice-of-court agreements and thus foster trade between participating states.
in writing. – i voted for this report. widespread up-take of this convention would ensure greater legal certainty for international exclusive choice-of-court agreements and thus foster trade between participating states. consent should therefore be given to this convention
in writing. – i voted in favour of the approval of the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on choice of court agreements. the hague convention concerns exclusive choice-of-court agreements concluded in civil and commercial matters. these are agreements whereby two parties agree that any dispute on a certain issue between them will be settled by the courts of the state specified. currently, the only state to have ratified the convention is mexico. however, ratification deliberations are ongoing in the united states of america. i support the opinion that widespread up-take of this convention would ensure greater legal certainty for international exclusive choice-of-court agreements and thus foster trade between participating states.
in writing. – the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people in finland, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. – the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. – this is an example of eu policy leading to the destruction of european industries, and then the eu using taxpayers’ money to effectively give ‘eu dole’ to those people affected. surely it is the responsibility of the finnish government, in this case, to help their people in this instance, and not british taxpayers. this is a national competency and for this reason i voted against.
in writing. - i fully support this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund which has come about as a result of the downturn in european shipbuilding. like finland, scotland has a long history of shipbuilding – and the devastation caused by shipyard closures is only too well known to scottish communities. we hear that certain naval contracts awarded to scottish shipbuilders are now under threat; the tory-led ʽnoʼ campaign in the recent referendum was guilty of a huge deceit.
in writing. – this is another perfect instance of the eu policy putting a business out of commercial viability and of the eu then using its funds, sourced from the uk amongst other member states, to deal with the impact – effectively to pay dole payments! ukip meps voted against since we do not agree that uk taxpayers should fund or support incoherent eu policies and by implication subsidise scenarios that fellow member states should manage.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. – on 14 october 2014, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in stx finland oy operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 30 (‘manufacturing of other transport equipment’) due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. i supported this proposal.
in writing. – i welcome that today the european parliament approved eu aid to help workers made redundant in stx finland. the eur 1 426 800 in egf aid approved by parliament will support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in stx in the rauma region. it concerns a total of 565 beneficiaries. the finnish authorities argue that the global maritime industry changed dramatically in recent years and that in this global context the eu market share has plummeted. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. - the ecr group fully supports measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, we do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies, nor do we believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore the ecr will vote against.
in writing. – the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of france, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. – the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. – this is an example of eu policy leading to the destruction of european industries, and then the eu using taxpayers’ money to effectively give ‘eu dole’ to those people affected. surely it is the responsibility of the french government, in this case, to help their people in this instance, and not british taxpayers. this is a national competency and for this reason i voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund and hope that it can contribute to those french workers who have lost their jobs.
in writing. – this is another perfect instance of the eu policy putting a business out of commercial viability and of the eu then using its funds, sourced from the uk amongst other member states, to deal with the impact – effectively to pay dole payments! ukip meps voted against since we do not agree that uk taxpayers should fund or support incoherent eu policies and by implication subsidise scenarios that fellow member states should manage.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. – i supported this proposal. the french authorities argue that the global financial and economic crisis led to reduced pig meat consumption in europe, which in turn caused a decline in the production of pig meat and throughput of abattoirs such as gad. while pig meat consumption in 2007 was still 43 kg per annum per head of population, it had dropped to 39 kg per annum in 2013. this decline in consumption, caused by the global financial and economic crisis, affected other types of meat as well, but hit pork particularly hard, as its price had been increasing faster than that of other meats, particularly beef.
in writing. - thanks to todayʼs vote france was granted egf aid to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at gad. gad société anonyme simplifiée operates in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 10 (ʽmanufacturing of food productsʼ). the french authorities argue that the global financial and economic crisis led to reduced pig meat consumption in europe, which in turn caused a decline in the production of pig meat and throughput of abattoirs such as gad. the eur 918 000 in aid will pay for personalised services consisting of advice and guidance to the 760 redundant workers, provided by a team of expert consultants. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. - the ecr group fully supports measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, we do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies, nor do we believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore the ecr will vote against.
in writing. - ukip does not recognise the authority of any eu court, including the one which this report called on an opinion from. we would usually vote against any report that recognises eu court authority. however, given the possible concerns about personal data security, we decided to abstain.
in writing. – as a ukip mep and as a member of the efdd group, i do not recognise the authority of any eu court, including the one from which this report called for an opinion. ukip meps would usually vote against any report that recognises eu court authority. however, given the possible concerns about personal data security, i and fellow ukip meps decided to abstain.
in writing. – there are several legal questions with the agreement. i have therefore supported a request for a legal opinion from the european court of justice before voting on it. we should not rush into an agreement that has potentially far-reaching consequences for the civil liberties of eu citizens and might undermine ongoing work on the data protection package. we need to have legal certainty that the agreement is fully in line with eu fundamental rights before consenting to this international agreement.
in writing. - i supported seeking an opinion from the court of justice on this agreement with canada as i take the view that there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement is compatible with the provisions of the treaties (article 16) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8 and 52(1)) and as regards the right of individuals to protection of personal data.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the request for a legal opinion from the european court of justice before voting on a planned agreement between the eu and canada on the exchange of air passenger data (pnr) in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. the purpose of the agreement is to lay down conditions in accordance with which pnr data may be transferred and used, and to stipulate how data will be protected. there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement is compatible with the provisions of the treaties (article 16) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8 and 52(1)) as regards the right of individuals to protection of personal data. i support the decision to obtain an opinion from the european court of justice because as legislators, we need to be sure that the decisions we take comply with the charter of fundamental rights and the already existing eu legislation.
in writing. — as draftsman for the foreign affairs committee opinion of this file i am well acquainted with the arguments in favour and against referring this matter to the european court of justice (ecj). it seems clear to me that such a referral will take many years and is primarily motivated by delaying tactics rather than securing the safety and privacy of eu citizens. in referring the matter to the ecj, the result will be that the existing 2006 agreement will continue to operate, an agreement that offers lower levels of data protection and access rights than the one now proposed. this agreement is about preventing terrorism against our member states and their citizens, not about snooping on the private lives of travellers. limited storage periods of data form the cornerstone of the agreement, as do strict purpose limitation clauses and significant degrees of access rights and rectification processes. this agreement ensures vital co-operation between the eu and canada, a nato country that shares our democratic values and is an ally in the fight against global terrorism and trans-national crime. it is for these reasons that i will be voting against the resolution today.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the ‘opinion of the court of justice – eu/canada agreement on the transfer and processing of passenger name record (pnr)’. this new agreement will help regulate the flow of data concerning passenger details in line with the 2013 eu court of justice ruling. the agreement will ensure that any data collected will not interfere with individual’s fundamental right to privacy.
in writing. - this resolution calls for an opinion from the court of justice regarding the legality of an agreement between the eu and canada to transfer the passenger name record (pnr) of air passengers to canadian border forces. pnr is data collected by air carriers for ticketing and check-in systems; it can include information like passengers’ names, addresses, passport details and credit card information. this resolution has been prompted by suggestions by the european data protection supervisor that collecting pnr for counter-terrorism purposes may not be proportionate, and by the decision of the court of justice to annul the data retention directive earlier this year, which makes the legality of other methods of mass data collection unclear. labour meps have never been against sharing pnr as such, but we have always demanded appropriate safeguards and that counterterrorism measures be compatible with fundamental rights. we have supported this resolution so that we can have a clear judgement on the legality of the pnr agreement.
mr president, i voted in favour of the stier report on the eu and the global development framework after 2015 first and foremost because it stands up for the poorest and the most vulnerable in our society. the report’s increased focus on sexual and reproductive health, tackling inequality and bringing an end to corruption and tax evasion are crucial in gaining my support. it is simply awful that companies are withholding a hundred billion from the poorest countries through tax dodging each year – money which they so desperately need to develop education, health care and infrastructure. we now need to combine our forces in the run-up to next year’s un summit to make sure that the european year of development lives up to its name. only if the eu speaks with a strong and unified voice will we make an actual change and deliver results that far exceed what the eu member states can do individually.
mr president, i am impressed by the content of this particular report and yet i find myself struggling actually to accept all its parts. there are two parts in particular which i think run counter to what the ethos of the report itself was for, namely those which touch upon a minimum wage and those which touch upon a financial transaction tax. these are things which we do not have here in our own continent; we have been careful and cautious as we have discussed them, recognising sovereignty and member statesʼ rights, and yet for reasons that remain unclear we have felt the need, in almost a neo-colonialist approach, to include these particular provisions within this important piece of work. for that reason, i think it is troubled, and those parts in particular are the worst reflection of what we could be doing in this particular chamber.
mr president, when we were at school, we would see on the wall maps of the world which would show europe in the middle. they are slightly adjusted – the equator is moved to emphasise the centrality of this continent – but that is how we think of geopolitics. we still assume that the world is centred in europe, and increasingly it is not. just as we saw a huge economic and commercial shift from the mediterranean to the atlantic some 400 years ago, now we have seen a similar shift to the pacific. this is the only continent on the planet that is not experiencing any economic growth. in the circumstances there is pathos, as well as futility, in the constant – almost rather plaintive – demands of the eu authorities for more growth. remember how the lisbon agenda was going to give us the most competitive economy in the world by 2020. remember how the euro was going to add one per cent of growth to the gdp of all participants in perpetuity. the truth is that we cannot will growth. we cannot legislate for it. we cannot make it happen by bureaucratic decree. the only thing we can do is step back and allow the people who actually create jobs to get on with it.
in writing. - ukip believes the eu is one of the primary causes of poverty in the world, due to its vindictive trade policy and its rapacious behaviour in the world’s poorest countries. we note that non-eu development actors have been infinitely better at dealing with poverty, notably india and brazil, which have both made positive contributions to fighting poverty in the world’s poorest nations. we invite the public to contact our offices for a more detailed explanation of how the eu harms the world’s poor.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution and the mention of access to sexual and reproductive rights, which covers a wide range of sexual health measures as well as maternal, post-natal, menopausal, reproductive cancers and fertility treatments. this report did not mention access to abortion. sinn féin believes that the option of a termination should be available where there is a real and substantial risk to the life of a pregnant woman, including where she is suicidal, that would only be averted by an abortion, and in the case of rape or incest. we voted against the extension of the 1967 act to the north of ireland when it was proposed in the assembly. we support the introduction of legislation in the 26 counties in line with the x case and we have called for the immediate introduction of guidance for medical professionals in the six counties.
in writing. - i welcome this report which lays down some important principles for post-2015 global development. despite our own ongoing economic problems, the eu remains one of the worldʼs economic powerhouses and it is vital that international development objectives are not sidelined. the euʼs efforts compliment smaller initiatives such as the scottish governmentʼs international development fund and the issues detailed in this report will help ensure these efforts remain effective.
in writing. – ukip believes the eu is one of the primary causes of poverty in the world, due to its vindictive trade policy and its rapacious behaviour in the world’s poorest countries. i am of the opinion that non-eu development actors have been infinitely better at dealing with poverty, notably india and brazil, which have both made positive contributions to fighting poverty in the world’s poorest nations. i invite the uk public and particularly se region constituents to contact my office for a more detailed explanation of how the eu harms the world’s poor.
in writing. – i welcome the report as a step forward and a strong message to the world that europe is serious about development and committed to tackling poverty. the eu needs to play a leading role in helping to define the future global development goals and targets. these must be ambitious and universally binding in order to tackle the root causes of global poverty effectively. tackling inequality, combating tax dodging, and protecting the environment are key pillars in this battle and must be at the heart of these new goals.
in writing. – i voted in support of the global development framework after 2015. the communication ‘decent life for all’ lays the foundation of the eu position on the post-2015 agenda. this communication calls for tackling issues of global concern such as poverty, health, food security, education, gender equality, water and sanitation, sustainable energy, decent work, inclusive and sustainable growth, inequality, sustainable consumption and production, biodiversity, land degradation and sea and oceans. i support the recommendation that a human rights-based approach and good governance should be the underlying concept of the new framework.
mr president, i applaud the fact that the final text of this 2020 strategy includes important references to the creation of quality jobs, policies focused on growth instead of austerity, the fight against precarious employment and the inclusion of national parliaments and social partners in decision-making, and stronger language on the eradication of child poverty. i believe it is crucial that the resolution calls for employment and social considerations to be assigned finally to their proper place, which is on a par with economic and fiscal governance. but words are not enough. in my region of the west midlands, employment rates have improved, but they are still extremely high. eight per cent of the people are still out of a job. meanwhile, wages growth has dropped to just 0.7%, meaning that those with a job are not necessarily guaranteed to meet their basic needs. we will only be able to substantially reduce the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion if we make targets binding and ensure that they are closely monitored.
in writing. — less than one month after european safety week, it is crucial that we have concrete legislative proposals regarding better health and safety for our citizens across the european union. every single employee should have the same high level of protection, regardless of who their employer is. if an employer cannot operate without risking the lives and health of their workers, they should not be in business. as unite the union has made clear, it is only unscrupulous and incompetent employers who fear consistent and fair regulation of health and safety. we need increased and better health and safety legislation from the european union, not just strategic frameworks. ucatt, the construction union, north west branch has been focusing on stress at work and i call upon the commission to legislate on this area.
in writing. - this resolution rightly notes that economic growth alone cannot bring true benefits to the whole of society. social justice must also be at the heart of policy-making and europeʼs citizens must be fully involved. at present scotland must endure a tory westminster government for whom social justice is anathema. this state of affairs was fully supported by their friends in the labour party during the recent referendum. it is essential that scotland gains real powers in future uk constitutional reforms so that a scottish government can implement social and economic policies aimed at the people of scotland.
in writing. – i welcome the resolution as it calls for a rebalancing within the strategy of financial and economic priorities with strong social priorities to ensure social policies are enabled. it is important that employment and social considerations are put on a par with macroeconomic ones. it also focuses on the creation of quality employment, the shift from austerity to growth-inducing policies, and an increased focus on tackling child poverty.
in writing. – i voted for this report which stresses that job quality is important for bringing more people into employment and making it possible for them to work longer, and is therefore a crucial factor for reaching the employment target of the europe 2020 strategy; considers, therefore, that employment indicators should focus not only on the number of people finding employment, but also on the quality of work, in order to provide a thorough picture of national labour markets
in writing. - today i voted in favour of parliamentʼs resolution on employment and social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy. currently the eu is far from having achieved the employment and poverty reduction headline targets of the europe 2020 strategy. the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion has increased by 10 million since 2008 to over 122.6 million, with one in four citizens affected. in addition, since the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, unemployment levels have continued to rise in some member states and the unemployment rate for the eu-28 has reached the alarming level of 10.1 % in 2014. it is understood that an increase in economic growth does not, in itself, guarantee decent jobs, a reduction in poverty or a reduction in social inequality. this requires appropriate policy choices for meeting such goals, specifically the europe 2020 targets.
in writing. — abstained on paragraph 46 (part 1) as i supported the final mmf deal and believe it was a balanced compromise.
in writing. – i voted in favour of ‘employment and social aspects of the eu2020 strategy’ because in order to achieve the objectives of eu2020, stronger measures need to be initiated to effectively combat the growing unemployment levels and other concerning social issues in many member states.
in writing. - this resolution calls for the europe 2020 strategy to be rebalanced and to include social, as well as economic, priorities. it expresses disappointment in the economic focus of the strategy, and calls for policies to aim for economic growth with sustainable benefits that are spread throughout society. the resolution also has an emphasis on youth unemployment, as the resolution praises the youth unemployment initiatives of some member states. labour meps supported this resolution because we feel strongly that economic recovery must benefit the many, not the few, and that rising inequality is a threat to long-term economic growth. labour meps also support measures to reduce youth unemployment, which is unacceptably high in the eu.
blue-card question. – in your speech you mention that the net contributors see the budget as one thing, and that those who take out see it as another. have you not just really hit the nail on the head – that the problem is that this is not one state? sovereign states have different requirements, different needs for different countries, and it will never work. this cannot work, because there are so many different requirements in so many different individual sovereign states. that is the whole reason this does not work.
madam president, to the council and commission, i have to say that i could not agree the budget, which has such high levels of unpaid bills and unfunded liabilities; that is not acceptable. but i did fully agree with the commissioner – she was exactly right when she said earlier that we need to devote resources to meeting citizens’ needs. that means investing in jobs and growth. but i would make two observations here. first to the parliament and commission, to say that this must not be confused with a call for a bigger budget. now is not the time for increasing the size of the budget. but secondly i want to appeal to the council: success or failure of this budget will not be determined by this house or by the commission, it will be determined by the member states and their willingness – or not – to show collective commitment to addressing citizens’ needs that will determine whether we succeed or we fail.
madam president, according to mark twain, patriotism is supporting your country all the time and your government when it deserves it. the european union in all of this does not deserve it. it should be no surprise that i am passionately english, passionately british, passionately european, but not passionately pro-european union. how can even the most ardent of pro-europeans support this almighty mess? our parliament repeatedly voted down measures that would have saved taxpayersʼ money and helped the books to balance. in the eu budget, parliament, the council and the commission are treating the issue as a political football. yes, we talk about the victims of unpaid bills, but there is one group which is forgotten in all of this: the taxpayers, the people across europe who have to pay for this bloated european union.
madam president, the eu is spending more than its taxpayers are willing to give. the eu wants to spend on all manner of things that, if asked, i would suggest many of the taxpayers would not support. equality, in its general terms, seems to be one of the targets of this spending. well, the society that puts equality before freedom ends up with neither, and the society or the organisation that puts spending on fantastic schemes and goals above economic soundness ends up with debts burdened upon people, late payments, complete sterility of ideas and failure. i put it to you that this organisation needs to think again. someone mentioned a complete restart. i certainly think a complete halt and some rational thought to realise that you cannot spend more than you bring in. the people do not want to give you any more. that is the truth.
blue-card question. – do you agree with me that this awful subject is really about a lack of morals and honour in society, and that anyone harming a woman is not only no gentleman, but is no kind of man at all?
madam president, this year a report was released by the eu fundamental rights agency. it showed us the current extent of violent crimes against women and the chronic under-reporting that leads lawmakers and law enforcers to become complacent about the problem. in fact, one in ten women has experienced some form of sexual violence, one in twenty has been raped and one in five has experienced some sort of physical or sexual violence from a current or previous partner. these are terrifying statistics. so far the commission has been less than forthcoming in response to the parvanova report. this called for a legislative proposal by the end of 2014. it asked for a european strategy and an action plan. and it is nearly december, and so far it has not been seen. thankfully the commission has picked up on the issue of female genital mutilation (fgm), important in taking european action on violence against women. but again we have yet to see the plan. we have to act now on fgm. it is taking place on european soil and it is european women that are being cut. violence against women in all its forms – fgm, domestic violence and the exploitation and trafficking of vulnerable women – must be tackled with commitment by all of us. these issues cannot be seen in isolation but rather as part of a larger problem: society’s attitude to women. we need action plans at an eu level and at member state level, and we need them now.
madam president, one thing i am sure none of you will mention is the complete free movement of people across the eu. because of this open-door immigration policy, we cannot even check the criminal backgrounds of newcomers. people with convictions for abuse, violence, and often, of course, criminal gangs trafficking women across the eu have complete, free access to the uk with no questions asked. we cannot even do a background check, thanks to eu rules. it is, of course, completely mad. so before you start calling for more useless, bureaucratic, unaccountable and expensive eu quangos, let us stop giving criminals and people with convictions for abuse free access to our countries. what we need is proper border controls with checks, which will make it more difficult for criminal gangs trafficking people and those with a history of violence to enter the country. then, and only then, can we have a better chance of dealing with the problems that we already have. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i would simply draw your attention to quite a tragic murder in my country, two months ago, of a young woman who, sadly, lost her life. there was a conviction of, i believe, a lithuanian guy who had already been convicted of murder. so, he came freely into that country. maybe a life would have been saved if checks and balance had been in place. do not underestimate the value of checking your borders with criminals, please. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – i am intrigued that you think you can stop free movement. can you tell me how you can check that scottish criminals do not move to london or london criminals move to northern ireland?
blue-card answer. – it is not a question of checking that, it is a question of actually knowing where these people are when they have criminal records, and making sure that people, innocent victims – actually we need to know where these people are. it is vital that we protect our women, really it is. no, i am sorry, i do not accept that.
madam president, nobody here is in favour of violence against women, of course. but what we should be doing is uniting in coming forward with ways in which we think that in this place, from the european parliament, we can actually help, actually do something. all 28 member states have legislation in place making violence against women a criminal offence, but they do not always enforce it. let us learn from each other. we have come a long way and we can go further. in london, thirty years ago, the metropolitan police commissioner, sir kenneth newman, who was in charge of police for the whole of london, said: ‘stray dogs and domestic violence [are] rubbish work for police officers’. now it is unthinkable that he would say that today, but still, on average, two women per week are killed by their partners in the united kingdom. but what have we done? well, we have criminalised fgm, we have criminalised forced marriage, we have passed something called clare’s law, which allows the police to disclose information on request about a partner’s previous history of violence, thus waiving that partner’s rights to protection under the data protection act. so, ladies and gentlemen, please let us get together, let us find ways of working together to end this, rather than squabbling about how we attack the commission.
madam president, as chair of the international development committee, i want to talk about something we have not talked about much, which is the issue of gender-based violence and combating it through our external policies. in particular, i would like to talk about the issue of gender-based violence during emergencies and how we can make our humanitarian aid and our development aid better able to tackle that problem, which – as we know – is a growing problem. last week i met members of the international rescue committee, who work with women in such situations. they want all member states to sign up to the call for action to end sexual violence in emergencies. many of your member states have not signed up. please urge them to do so. tomorrow we will give the sakharov prize to dr mukwege, who has tackled gender-based violence and who provides care to women who have been victims. next year you will be looking at the gender action plan in the commission. we need the action plan to be a real plan for real action. i hope that this will be a testimony to the work of dr mukwege and that it will be something we can come back to next year and say we have really achieved something.
in writing. – an estimated one in three women in the eu have suffered physical and/or sexual violence at least once since the age of 15. in birmingham, one of the larger cities in my region, there will have been 1 400 victims of sexual assault in the last year. that is 1 400 persons who have seen their worst nightmare become reality. these figures are staggering, and it is likely they are only the tip of the iceberg, as violence against women is notoriously under-reported. it therefore is surprising, to say the least, that the commission has deemed inappropriate submitting a proposal for a legislative act establishing measures to promote the action of member states for prevention of violence against women and girls (vawg), and has not implemented an eu-wide strategy and action plan, as parliament requested. the onus is now on the commission to take action to ensure cohesive eu action, and make sure existing legislation and law enforcement mechanisms are geared towards fighting vawg in the most effective way possible. undermining women’s ability to participate as full citizens in society, vawg is spreading its poison throughout entire communities. failing to take effective action will therefore mean failing us all.
author. - madam president, the context for this oral question could not be more powerful and more precipitous. we have, approaching the chair, our new commissioner, commissioner avramopoulos, for his first debate. he is just about to take the chair. we have in the council mr gozi, the italian presidency of mare nostrum, which will shortly move to operation triton. unfortunately, the inadequate sticking plaster which sees good people trying to save migrants in the mediterranean could not prevent three thousand migrants from drowning in 2014 alone. earlier this day, we heard his holiness saying to us, in an excellent speech, that we cannot allow the mediterranean to become a vast cemetery. but he also said, in a very mature passage, that we need a united response to the question of migration based on a recognition of the human dignity of immigrants. it was a very mature response, which also talked about the causes and effects of migration. colleagues, it is in that spirit that we talk about our oral question today in front of the commissioner and in front of the council. this is not the first time that we talk about this issue. it is after many, many oral questions. colleagues, we have the tools to do the job – of course we do. in the final paragraph of our oral resolution we talk about the common european asylum system. how many times have we talked about it? how many trilogues have we had? how many pieces of directives and laws have we put together? of course we have the tools to do the job. the issue is one of solidarity, and the issue is one of political action. we have something to say to the commission and to the council today, and particularly, mr gozi, to the council, not to the presidency – because within the presidency we have had mare nostrum, which has saved 150 000. it is the council which is not implementing the common european asylum system. so i direct this primarily to the council: we do not have solidarity. and that is why we had that powerful moral message earlier today. in our search and rescue obligations – the first part of our oral question which i put to both of you – we have moved from mare nostrum to triton the inadequacy of that programme. secondly, when we talk about broadening the activities of frontex and triton, we have an inadequacy. first we have to ask that question. the european commission does its best, but if we do not have the member states working together, we do not have adequate burden sharing. then we have development of safe and legal routes. what does that mean? it means what his holiness was talking about: causes and effects, the push and pull factors, and a common resettlement policy. i attended the justice and home affairs council in milan, and there was clearly no real resettlement policy with real burden sharing across the member states, since it was not equal across the member states. when we talk about the context – and we will hear many members talk about the context – please remember that, despite the austerity that we have, the top ten countries receiving refugees today from syria and elsewhere are all among the world’s developing countries. not one country in the top ten countries receiving refugees today is a european union country – they are all developing countries. so let us put that into context. yes, we are generous, but we are not there amongst the developing countries of the world taking the biggest burden. so let us remember that president juncker, in his opening statement, talked about adequate legal migration channels. so we have to be brave and courageous in actually saying what that will mean. not perhaps today, but let us refresh our vision about what that will mean. so colleagues, yes, emergency funds, migration and asylum border control, fighting smuggling and trafficking, eu foreign and development policy, what we do about common standards for reception procedures and qualifications – all of that is vital. but the key point, and i put this both to the commission and council – and particularly to the council – is that we do not have implementation of our common asylum system. the purpose of the oral question today is not that the parliament has not done its job – we have done our job. rather, the point is that we can do more. i address this to my colleagues in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and across parliament. what i would propose is that we say to the council: implement what we have and stop people dying in the mediterranean. but we should also have our inquiry to ensure that pressure is put on the council, that we have resources put into an inquiry or an investigation into what is happening, so that we can look citizens in the eye and ensure that they know that we as a parliament are doing everything possible to ensure that mediterranean deaths are not happening week in and week out, and that we have a managed migration system that is worthy of our parliament. we have to show our moral compass and what we are doing about our refugee and asylum policy.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the situation of migration into the mediterranean is one which is one of the most important issues for the whole european union. europe must approach immigration with respect for fundamental rights, international obligations, human dignity and life. we need to have a sensible and balanced approach. there is a significant increase, year on year, in the number of people dying while attempting to make the journey to europe. this is unacceptable and unsustainable. europe needs an approach which is achievable but not idealistic. there is no simple answer, but what this parliament needs most is what the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) has asked for: a holistic approach which looks at all the tools available to the eu in order to respond to the crisis. this includes looking at the responsibilities of frontex and how we can save those vulnerable and exploited from dying at sea, as well as confronting the appalling actions of the human traffickers and smugglers who are so often responsible for their plight. we need to deal with third countries strongly and effectively to tackle immigration at source, and how we can work on resettlement and returns policies with them. there also needs to be a period of reflection where member states take responsibility for processing efficiently, quickly and immediately in the first place of arrival. this is something benefiting the asylum seeker and the eu as a whole. neither opening europe’s borders wide nor slamming them shut is the solution to this problem. instead, we must put away ideology and populism and we must find a realistic and workable way forward to solve those problems.
mr president, (inaudible as microphone not switched on) ... the so-called arab spring, the idiotic foreign policy of the british government and others was to support insurgent groups against their oppressive rulers. unfortunately, the liberators turned out to be more savage and tyrannical than those they sought to replace. the unfortunate inhabitants of these countries now leave in droves by any means that they can. if we want to have a holistic approach to this problem, then it has to recognise the root cause, and the root cause is, of course, a fundamentalist and extremist interpretation of islamic ideology, most notably expressed by the so-called islamic state. the countries best placed to tackle the problem and with the money to do so are, of course, the vastly wealthy, oil-rich islamic states such as saudi arabia, etc. these are the countries that should take these people because they can afford it. they share similar cultures and the same religion.
in writing. – the eu is seen by many of the most vulnerable and oppressed people of the world as a zone of stability and safety. migrants risk and lose their lives trying to reach our shores. according to the iom, the journey from north africa via the mediterranean is the most lethal migration in the world and has killed at least 3 000 migrants this year alone. the situation in the mediterranean is a pressing issue and it is only going to get worse; war in syria, libya and elsewhere is creating millions of new refugees, and the next exodus is underway in iraq. faced with the most dangerous border crossing in the world, europe is deciding to make that journey even more dangerous – betting that, if we make it hopeless enough, no one will attempt to cross. this ‘cruel to be kind’ approach means politicians get to look tough on ‘illegal’ immigration for political benefit back home, but the transformation of the eu into a fortress has created the conditions that have led to deaths along its borders. this is not something we should be proud of as a union of member states, hence we need to act together so our actions reflect our common values.
blue-card question. – the spanish government is breaking european law. i am interested to know how you would deal with this. if they continued to defy it, would you like to see the spanish government forcibly replaced by the eu? then, if there were more immigrants allowed in as a consequence of this, would you like to see the eu nation states forced to accept quotas of those people who come into spain, to lessen the blow to spain?
mr president, the behaviour of the spanish authorities towards these desperate africans is a reflection of the true attitude of madrid towards the rule of law. we heard last week that the catalan president is to be charged with the crime of disobedience because he held an unofficial referendum on catalan independence. he may now face up to a year in prison and be banned from public office for 10 years. does anyone in this chamber imagine that the spanish officials who are breaking the law by throwing migrants back over the fence will ever be threatened with such a punishment as a year in prison? they will not be threatened with any punishment at all. as for the transgressions against gibraltarian sovereignty, i rest my case.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i welcome the review. we need a health and safety framework which reflects changing work patterns and new and emerging risks. with any review we also need to embrace the principles of better regulation and the approach that we have heard expounded by commissioner timmermans. we need regulations to keep people safe, and i will never support measures which make workers less safe. there is a misconception, though, that better regulation means a race to the bottom in terms of workers’ protection and health and safety. that is not the case. we should reduce the complexity of health and safety legislation, because if we do, we can increase compliance. we can achieve our policy goals of enhanced health and safety, while reducing the burdens on business. i strongly believe that health and safety inspections should concentrate on what is actually happening in the particular workplace, rather than on whether they have got the right document in the filing cabinet. so i welcome the commitment to simplifying legislation and reducing administrative burdens, and we really must consider how risk assessment documentation for small enterprises in low-risk sectors could be made easier.
mr president, i really do hate to say it, but the commissioner has done again what she did this morning. she has come with warm words and all the right noises but she has presented a strategic framework that is not strategic and is not a framework. to be honest, it is blarney: there is no content. where is the carcinogens provision? cancer, we know, is the largest single killer of people at work. it is not in this apparently strategic supposed framework. where is asbestos, which kills tens of thousands of people a year now? where is it in this supposedly strategic so-called framework? what about blacklisting? three thousand people in the uk were blacklisted, mainly from construction sites, for daring to raise concerns about health and safety. where is that important issue in this supposedly strategic non-framework? what about the transposition of the list of occupational diseases into something that actually can be used at eu level? i am sure the commissioner is sincere in her warm words and benevolent noises but, unless we have some content and some action to actually make a difference, then it starts to look like a smoke-screen.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would certainly welcome the opportunity to look at the way in which the anti-discrimination directive is working. it was a ground-breaking piece of legislation at the time, but i do not think it has had all the results we would have hoped for. when we look at the breakdown of unemployment figures, it is still very clear that there are still groups that are really suffering discrimination, whether they are people with disabilities, older workers, people from ethnic minorities, or whatever. so we are not, as our colleague said, using the skills and the talents that are there, and a lot of the time we are not developing them in training either. people have talked about the awareness of rights; the fundamental rights agency said that maybe about one in four people in the eu were aware of their rights under the legislation. so this begs a question about whether we can put in practice a strategy to improve that figure, measure the outcome and, hopefully, improve the results. others have spoken a bit as well about the way in which we apply rights. we are aware that many national equality bodies have actually had their funding cut over the last few years. in the uk that has been about 60% and has included a lot of local project funding. yet these are the clear contact points for people to report and to develop cases. so we really need to be doing a lot more here to make sure that this legislation is really working to help people develop their talents and their future.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, we have already got anti-discrimination laws in the uk, and meddling bureaucrats in brussels complicating our laws without any accountability do not help the situation. of course, there should be no discrimination against people in the workplace: full stop. it is already illegal in the uk, obviously. we are all human beings and should have the same rights and protection. employment should be solely based on merit, skills and enthusiasm that individuals have for a particular job – which brings me to the other side of the debate, which is positive discrimination. it is the eu that promotes discrimination, with all its targets and quotas for employment. the eu wants the employer to choose the person with arbitrary characteristics that could be something like gender or ethnic origin. so before you can all take the moral high ground and sit there and say everything is perfect about the eu, you really need to get your own house in order; and you do not fight discrimination with more discrimination ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i am afraid this is more than usually kafkaesque that we are sitting here, discussing this more than ten-year-old piece of legislation about anti-racial discrimination in the workplace, in an almost entirely white parliament serviced by an almost entirely white secretariat, being dealt with by a european commission that has 35 000 employees, almost every single one of whom is white, and a european council with 3 500 employees, almost every single one of whom is white. in the last few months i have tabled dozens of parliamentary questions, none of which have yet been answered, asking questions like: how many of your employees are of bame heritage? no answer does there come. no answer do i expect. surely you people – surely all of us – rather than sitting here in liberal pomposity discussing a piece of nonsense legislation like this, should be looking at our own houses and asking: where are the black, asian and minority ethnic employees in the european commission and in the european parliament in these tens of thousands of well-paid jobs?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, while the recent stress tests of european banks have shone the spotlight on some of the weakest sections of the banking sector, this should not divert attention from the need for decisive structural reform of the banking industry. the two most important causes of the financial crisis have still to be addressed. first we need a clear-cut separation of retail from casino banking activities, and secondly we need to reduce the size of individual banks so that no single financial institution can threaten the whole financial system. this problem of ‘too big and too interconnected to fail’ is more important and more urgent than the capital position of any individual bank. recent news about the royal bank of scotland misleading regulators and deliberately undermining their own customers suggests that banks are still no way near the responsible corporations serving the real economy that we need them to be. if it is not too cheeky on the day the pope has visited parliament, i recommend you to check the green group’s seven deadly sins website to assess the performance of your national banks. finally we need to confront head-on the vast and growing levels of debt which are the fundamental cause of instability in the monetary system globally. we should establish a citizens’ audit of how that debt was acquired and to what extent it can be considered legitimate, and we should reconsider the nature of the money creation system, which relies on allowing private banks to create money with a simultaneous creation of debt.
rapporteur. - mr president, may i extend a welcome to commissioner hill. i would like to begin by thanking mr johan van overtveldt for the excellent work he did in drafting this initial report before leaving parliament to become belgian finance minister. i have tried to continue working on this report using his methods and vision. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups for their cooperation on this report and, despite some of the differences on minor parts of the report, i hope this goodwill will extend to the overall report being voted through tomorrow. in the last parliament we made an unprecedented change to the role of the european central bank. instead of just acting as a central bank with power over monetary policy, we gave it powers to supervise the largest banks in the eurozone, with the option for those member states outside the eurozone to also join the single supervisory mechanism. the banking union has fundamentally changed the role and responsibility of the ecb. while the ecb should continue to be independent from political influence in terms of monetary policy, it is imperative that in its new function as banking supervisor it is accountable. during earlier trialogues the parliament tried to include scrutiny processes and transparency in the ecb’s operations and was often rebuffed, yet we did make some huge steps forward in terms of information-sharing with parliament, so some democratic accountability is present within the process. i have tried in this report to continue in this vein, adding accountability and transparency wherever possible. in the initial draft of this regulation, when the ecb imposed a sanction upon a financial institution it could decide whether or not this sanction was made public. there were no conditions or time limits attached. it was entirely within their mandate to decide on whether or not to disclose. while i can see reasons why, in some circumstances, not immediately publishing the fact that they have been sanctioned might be necessary, for example in the case of a wider financial crisis situation or, indeed, worries about bank runs, this should not be the norm. the normal operating procedure should be immediate public disclosure. the prospect of a fine may not faze large financial companies, but being on the front page of every newspaper poses a much larger reputational risk. for this reason we have a compromise between political groups to ensure a three-year time limit so that the ecb cannot wait any longer to disclose the fact that they have sanctioned a financial firm. i am disappointed that there is one area that we have not been able to find a compromise on so far. i am a firm believer in the concept of innocent until proven guilty. therefore, if we consider that part of the punishment for breaking the rules is that of reputational damage, using a ‘naming and shaming’ approach, then it seems to me logical that if a decision is subject to an appeal and may still be overturned, we should allow a longer time period before disclosure to the wider market. failing to provide this safeguard may otherwise cause a bank to lose significant value in its share price based solely on accusations that are later overturned on appeal. i believe adding in this safeguard ensures the fairness of the disclosure process and will increase the effectiveness of the sanctioning regime, which will then increase the effectiveness of the ecb itself when exercising its supervisory powers. i therefore hope that the majority of the european parliament political groups can continue to support this centrist position calling for increased transparency. specifically on the gualtieri report i have little to add, because quality of regulation depends on quality of the statistics that the supervisors are working on. i honestly believe that the only way we get good quality supervision is good-quality data. therefore i hope the proposals in these two reports are supported tomorrow.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, at the last meeting of the meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs i told mr draghi that i felt sorry for him – and i still do. the problem here is that you can make as many ad hoc adjustments to the powers and remits of the ecb and its quangos as you like, but you will still have a seriously suboptimal currency zone. only by abolishing national governments, national elections and, indeed, any feeling of national identity among national populations could you create the conditions for a smooth-running single currency zone. you would need popular consent for massive and permanent transfer payments from the stronger parts of the zone to the weaker. you would need to deploy ruthless political power to impose structural and, indeed, cultural changes on the non-powerhouse nations. you do not have any of this, and i, for one, pray you never get it, because the right outcome is to dismantle the euro and let national currencies presided over by national governments accountable to national populations come into being once again. that way, interest rate decisions could be taken to suit national economies and the exchange rate could serve as an adjustment mechanism to protect economic activity in the weaker parts. your wish to indulge in incremental deepening of the ecb is perhaps understandable in the circumstances, but this is a bodged repair job on a fundamentally unsound vehicle. it is time you allowed the peoples of europe to cut their losses. it is time to send the euro to the scrapyard.
rapporteur. - mr president, i call on my colleagues tomorrow to send a strong message to the council on the need for increased transparency and public disclosure with respect to the sanctions. i appreciate that, as has become fairly obvious tonight, there is a matter outstanding that has proven to be very controversial: that of whether or not an appeal should be allowed before public disclosure. i am sure the commission will advise the council on how they might balance the need for information to be made public versus the right of a company to appeal, also bearing in mind that they need to balance the requirements of the ssm legislation with this report, and indeed the procedures for disclosure by listed companies throughout the eu and the possible market abuse regulation and directive requirements too. i am sure the commission will find a solution to this, and i call upon my members tomorrow to send a strong message on the need for public disclosure.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as mr juncker knows, our political group likes to look forward to the future, not back to the past, and i must say, mr juncker, that i like your analogy of using the watering can. how do we make sure it is a watering can that stimulates growth? how do we make sure that it is not a government flood that washes away private investment? how do we make sure it is not a private irrigation system that is never turned on? what we need are detailed answers to some of our questions, and i have talked to a number of private investors in the past and asked them what stops them from investing. i was talking to a large institutional investor last week, with over gbp 600 billion of assets under management, and they told me that quite often government projects are fanciful. they do not see any real return. how do we make sure that we have projects that are attractive to private investors? venture capitalists tell me they do not invest, that the aifmd and other eu legislation make the eu less attractive to investment. how do we tackle those issues? a former german industrialist was talking to me the other day and he asked why it is that the non-euro area is so much better at attracting investment than the euro area. if only the euro area was better! but as you know, it is not. what is it? is the euro the key to that question? but the key to the package is: how do we unlock this investment? how do we make sure that this is not just talking about money? how do we make sure that we actually have the reforms, as manfred weber was saying, to make sure that we unlock these investments? and let me give you a couple of examples. a few years ago i was talking to a british company which wanted to invest in brindisi in italy. they spent over 11 years trying to invest in an lng terminal: a huge infrastructure project, but they walked away after 11 years because of bureaucracy and frustration. how do we make sure red tape like that does not stop investment in infrastructure? or think of another example: castellón airport: millions of euro of public money but still, 44 months after being inaugurated, it has not opened. and we know of projects in the middle of nowhere. so the questions we have to ask are: how do we unlock this private investment without taxpayers taking on the burden of risk? how do we avoid a situation where for private investors it is heads they win and tails taxpayers lose? how do we avoid more brindisis or more castellóns? answer those questions, mr juncker. give us real detail about this investment, tell us why the private sector is not investing at the moment, and maybe then we can support your projects.
mr president, i thought that some deals in the city of london were highly leveraged, but it turns out that is nothing compared to the european commission. the brutal truth is you do not have 315 billion euros to spend, or anything like it, and what you do have to spend means throwing good money after bad. as the oecd has now admitted, the eurozone has persistent stagnation tendencies. mr juncker is trying to implement a bodged solution, but the truth is that the vehicle itself is unsound. the euro is what motor traders in my country would call a lemon, and it should be scrapped. it prevents the weaker nations of the zone from using exchange rate depreciation as a mechanism for protecting economic activity in tough times. in britain, we saved probably a million jobs by allowing the pound sterling to depreciate after the 2008 crash. in euroland, you lost several million jobs because greece, italy, portugal and spain were unable to follow suit. of course, one can only pay tribute to the fundamental strength of the german economy. germany has the infrastructure, the good industrial relations, the excellent technical education, economies of scale, r&d budget and the world’s leading brands; but to expect the southern eurozone members to live in the same exchange rate and same interest rate regime is pure folly. southern europe is in a terrible state. the extent of unemployment – and youth unemployment in particular – is a disgrace. it gives the lie to any claim you might wish to make that the eu in its present incarnation is a force for good. there is a fundamentally deflationary bias brought about by the euro across southern europe. twenty billion euros parcelled up to sound like 300 billion will not change that. your imperial ambitions are robbing the peoples of the world’s greatest continent of the chance to fulfil their potential. mr juncker, this is not a new deal – still less christmas coming early, as you claimed. it is just another eu turkey!
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, cosmologist carl sagan said it is far better to grasp the universe as it really is than to persist in delusion, however satisfying and reassuring. 26 years later, climatologist james hansen put it more bluntly: it is time to stop waffling. as a planet we have made slow and halting progress since we first began to appreciate our challenge. if i may, in an aside, say, as we approach the lima gathering: it is a particularly unfortunate moment to dispense with the services of the european union’s chief scientific adviser. right now more than ever, we need science at the heart of the decisions we take. the scottish professor anne glover has served well in this capacity, and i had every hope that her successor would do the same. i therefore call for mr juncker to reverse this decision and reverse it now. the gathering in lima will present a number of challenges, notably the question of burden-sharing. i am pleased to note that the uk will contribute gbp 720 million pounds to the green climate fund. this is important. equally important will be the funds contributed by others. it is this particular fund which will help us ensure that we meet the targets to ensure that the two-degree reduction is made. equally important, as we head towards the paris cop meeting, will be the setting of clear and ambitious national contributions to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. the headline agreement by eu leaders of a binding target to reduce headline emissions by 40% from 1990 levels is important, as is the statement by the british prime minister that this must represent a floor, not a ceiling. for much of the last decade we have been at the forefront of efforts to decarbonise the globe, and it has been a lonely place. with the recent climate change commitments of the us and china, we are no longer alone. now is the time to find a truly global solution to a truly global problem. as we say in scotland, it is now time to grasp the thistle.
mr president, the reason we need a eur 300 billion investment package in the eu is because private sector investment is too low. the key reason for that is the eye-watering energy prices in europe, which are a huge disincentive to investment. these high energy prices, mr president, are not an act of god or of world markets; they are the direct results of policy decisions which we have taken here in this house. our green policies are forcing energy-intensive business out of europe altogether, taking their jobs and their investment with them. often they go to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards, so arguably we could be increasing global emissions at the same time. our objectives in lima will make matters worse. we are proposing a usd 10 billion fund to assist developing countries on climate issues, but my constituents in the uk are already facing eye-watering energy prices, plant closures and job losses for your green policies. they will be appalled that we are asking them to sacrifice even more on the altar of climate alarmism.
mr president, slowly but surely we are seeing a consensus emerging in the world that human activity is responsible for climate change, in spite of some of the oddball conspiracy theories we have heard this morning. if the eu is to demonstrate what it does at its most effective, which is working together with cross-linkages and having different countries work together for their common interest, then it must do all it can do combine different areas of policy. that includes when we work on air quality, linking that to climate policy and linking development policy very clearly to climate policy as well. we know that the effects of climate change will have a disproportionate effect on developing countries, because their infrastructures are far less able to cope with its effects. therefore, i welcome the money that the commission has announced that it will be supporting at lima. we must have a deal in paris that provides support for developing countries for sustainable growth so that new areas of economic growth are not dependent on mechanisms that degrade the environment.
mr president, sometimes it feels a little bit like ‘groundhog day’ when we stand in this chamber. when we are talking about these cop resolutions, one comes after another with monotonous regularity, but i really do believe that we have reached a key stage here in our pursuit of a new global deal to arrest climate change. with the recent european council conclusions on the 2030 package, the eu is now in a strong position to push for a truly international and binding agreement. i would like to say: let us concentrate on achieving that end, particularly agreeing the draft elements of our text, and agreeing the steps to strengthen the un climate regime covering rules, mechanisms, reporting and implementation. the time has come for detail, for getting that detail right, and for europe to lead the way forward. it is not the time for grandstanding about whether we do or do not believe – it really does not matter; we are at the stage where we are moving forward. let us not squabble, let us do it together, and let us make sure that europe’s voice counts.
mr president, i want to talk about the development aspects of climate change. commissioner and mr gozi, i have a question for you, which is that we all know that climate change is already a problem for developing countries – i am very pleased we had the meeting in berlin last week where we made progress on climate finance – and we have all talked about cop 2021 this morning, but before we get to paris – between now and lima and paris – we have got the sdg meeting at the un general assembly next september, and climate and sustainability will be a big part of that agenda as well. yesterday we adopted mr stier’s excellent report here in this parliament about the sdg and the post-2015 process. i want to know how you in the commission are working together on the sdgs because – as you know, commissioner – these two processes are going to be linked at the united nations. the sdgs are also going to be universal. they are not just going to be like the old mdgs applying to developing countries; they are going to apply to us as well. so how are you working inside the new commission to link those things together? i wonder, too, how the council is dealing with this. what process has it set in place to make sure the two things make sense, are linked together and really deliver something on climate change?
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you very much for this debate. i was happy to hear support from different sides of the hemicycle for a strong european union negotiating position in lima and paris. to be an effective negotiating partner, we need three things. first, we need to show leadership through our domestic policies. with the 2013 framework adopted, the european union is in an excellent position not only to be a strong international voice but also to address the european climate and energy challenges. i have listened with great attention to all your concerns in this regard. second, we need to deliver on our previous commitments. we will continue scaling up climate finance, as we have done so far, and i hope we will also be able to adopt the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol shortly. i have been asked a very specific question about the green climate fund (gcf) by mr eickhout. as you know, clearly the european union does not have a seat on the board of the gcf due to the position of russia and the united states at the time of its establishment. it will not therefore be possible to contribute to it from the european union budget for accountability reasons, because european union spending from the european union budget cannot be undertaken if the european union is not involved in decisions made by the green climate fund. however, the commission is ready to explore co-financing projects with the gcf at country level, for example via the european union regional investment facilities, with which we currently already blend grants in the european union budget and loans from the development bank. finally, to be an effective negotiating partner, we have to be united. the european union is a strong unit that speaks with one voice. only in this way can we continue to strengthen our existing alliance and to build bridges, with the perseverance mrs grossetête claims and without changing strategies. this is not the time to change a global strategy that we have lived with for many years. we are aiming for a globally-binding agreement, and we cannot change that strategy. it takes time. it is difficult. the united nations procedures are slow, but we must proceed with the aim of having a binding agreement in paris. you can count on my engagement, both in lima and also next year, to work on all these three elements. my hope and ambition is that, by the time we have a similar debate next year, the outline of the future agreement will be clear. it must be an agreement that keeps us on track for the below 2° c target and that is applicable to all. it is something we owe to future generations. delivering the 2015 agreement in paris needs commitment from all countries in order to effectively combat dangerous climate change. however, paris will not be the end of the process, because implementation, monitoring and review will always be needed beyond paris to verify that the international ambition of all countries will be delivered to the levels required by science. if need be, a regional intervention action will have to be identified.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very encouraged by the outcome of this debate. you said it yourself: the world starts to move. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. jo leinen has made a very important point. it is true that we are far from copenhagen, and we must stay far from copenhagen even when we pass from lima, which is really far from copenhagen, to paris, which is a little closer, but only geographically. we must certainly keep our ambitions high. that's why you've repeatedly stressed the importance of the us-china announcement: the eu and the us are responsible for 43% of global emissions and have for the first time jointly announced a commitment well before the paris summit. clearly, we need more information to evaluate commitments and also to prepare for the right coalitions and alliances to make paris a success. mrs mcavan asked how much we will take account of the work done for the developing countries. i remember - i said in my introduction - that the planned and agreed contributions at national level, the so-called indcs, will have to allow each party to choose its own type of contribution and to define its own level of ambition precisely in accordance with its national situations and capacities. of course, as you said, we must achieve a result in lima not only for the european union but for the whole planet, and as in previous occasions we will take your support and, above all, the awareness-raising work that you have done and will continue to do for our partners worldwide into account. it is an essential element of the leadership role which the european union has played in the past and your contribution has also been and will be, i am sure, also in lima and in view of paris, extremely appreciated. we want to work closely with you in the immediate preparations for the lima conference, and you will also be part of the european union delegations during the lima conference. it is essential to achieve the best possible results in lima in view of the decisive paris conference next year. the council hopes that the paris conference will be able to take up the spirit and ambitions of kyoto.
in writing. – if only the most alarmist climate predictions are taken into account, then action will be taken on short-term measures without a proper consideration of the future. this is, i believe, what is happening at present. but imagine that we developed renewables technology to a point where it became economically competitive first. people would not be in fuel poverty today, and when such technology becomes viable the advantages will see it taken up worldwide. short-term targets lead to the development of the wrong forms of energy. wind energy may well hit a target, but wind is intermittent and unpredictable and requires significant conventional backup. investment in research now, and implementation when that research yields benefits, would benefit both the economy and the environment.
in writing. – i welcome this resolution and am delighted that parliament is sending a delegation to the lima cop and is putting in so much effort, together with the commission, to ensure that a truly global legally-binding agreement is achieved in paris at the end of 2015. it is imperative to limit global temperature rise to below 2°c, the impact of climate change is real, not only on humans but also on the planetʼs fragile biodiversity. just last year the south of the uk was severely affected by flooding, costing the country an estimated gbp 1 billion. today the uk environment agency estimates that one sixth of houses in england are at risk of flooding. but right across the world, not only in the uk, many nations are struggling to cope with the effects of climate change. this is why i welcome the fact that this resolution reiterates the euʼs and member statesʼ commitment to funding the un green climate fund by 2020. such a fund will help developing countries adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate change. finally i would like to wish parliamentʼs delegation all the best at the cop in lima and truly hope that significant international progress can be achieved.
madam president, i voted in favour of the gualtieri report and would like to congratulate the rapporteur, because it is vital that we have clear rules that are adopted on the ecb’s ability to circulate statistical information among the european system of central banks and to relevant member states and national institutions. i also believe it is crucial that regional variations are included in the statistics that are taken on board by the ecb. it is crucial also that organisations on the receiving end should take all the necessary regulatory, technical, administrative and organisational measures to ensure the physical and logical protection of confidential statistical information. i welcome the inclusion in the report of a call for increased transparency on the exemption of reporting agents and protection of confidential data used by the ecb under its new supervisory task.
madam president, when i was a teenager travelling in the warsaw pact countries in the 1980s, i came across a very eerie phrase that people used to use and which some colleagues from those countries may remember. it was ‘the gap between what is said and what is’. we used to think it a characteristic of totalitarian regimes, but what a wonderful description it is of the whole lamentable euro project also. the thing was built on a fraud in the first place, as countries falsified their statistics in order to qualify, and it was then sold to the people in an act of even greater fraud, as we were told that it would add 1% to the gdp of all participating states every year in perpetuity. the worse of it is that the lies are continuing. even now, in this chamber we are assured, over and over again, that the debt crisis had nothing to do with the euro and that the economic crisis is unrelated to monetary union. the new president of the commission, mr juncker, stood in front of us at a recent session and said that the euro had been a shelter in the economic storm. my friends, unless we get the diagnosis right, we will never get the prescription right. we are not only deceiving our constituents; much more seriously, we are deceiving ourselves.
in writing. - whilst the majority of this text refers to euro area countries, there is still potentially some impact of the new proposed ecb powers in terms of the uk. consequently, i voted against the adoption of this report.
in writing. – i welcome the amendments introduced by my group ensuring more transparency on exemption of reporting agents and protection of confidential data used by the european central bank under its new supervisory tasks. i therefore supported the report.
in writing. - i welcome the recommendation of the european central bank to amend regulation (ec) no 2533/1998 with a view to taking into account the ecb’s new supervisory tasks under regulation (eu) no 1024/2013 conferring specific tasks on the european central bank concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions (ssm regulation). the ecb will take up its full supervisory tasks in accordance with the latter regulation on 4 november 2014.
in writing. – today i voted in favour of the ecb’s proposed amendments specifying that the ecb may use confidential statistical information for the performance of its new supervisory functions. the amendments are intended to minimise the reporting burden and to ensure that the same data will only need to be collected once. in addition, the proposed amendment allows for the transmission of confidential statistical information within the european system of central banks (escb) for the performance of tasks in the field of prudential supervision. the ecb will be permitted by the european system of central banks (escb) to transmit confidential statistical information to authorities and bodies of the member states and the union responsible for the supervision of financial institutions, markets and infrastructures. due to the confidential nature of the data being transmitted to the various authorities, it is vital that the receiving authorities take all necessary regulatory, administrative, technical and organisational measures to ensure the physical and logical protection of the confidential statistical information concerned.
madam president, i had to abstain on the swinburne report. although there has been some progress in terms of the transparency of the sanctions from the ecb, we should have gone further. indeed, i believe that the call for publishing sanctions only when all legal means of appeal against such a decision have been exhausted means that the door will be open for indefinite periods of stalling, during which the ecb cannot publish the fact that it has to impose sanctions on particular banks. so, full transparency is a key issue for me. we should avoid repeating the bottlenecks we had in the past. it is also important that markets know when banks have transgressed, and that sanctions have been put on them, as soon as possible.
madam president, the way to deal with wrongdoing in banks is not to sanction them with fines that they will pass on to their customers. it is to make the directors of the bank personally liable. they would then have more incentive than anybody to prevent a meltdown which would leave them with nothing except personal debt. it is a funny thing about sanctions, the way they create perverse incentives. when the euro was being launched, there was a mechanism to sanction countries that breached the stability pact and thereby played some part in triggering the financial crisis. it was never used. france and germany were among the infracting states. it was never triggered, and yet we have in practice a fine against those countries which performed better than expected – including the uk, because we did not join the single currency. in practice, this gbp 1.7 billion that has been levied on us in a surcharge for prosperity is what we got for having kept the pound. you know, it is a funny thing, but if you start taxing countries for doing the right thing in order to pay countries for doing the wrong thing, you are going to end up with fewer of the former and more of the latter.
in writing. - this, like the previous report, focuses primarily upon issues which do not affect the uk directly. nevertheless, the indirect effects could lead to british or british-owned banks facing sanctions. i therefore voted against giving greater powers to the european central bank.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because i do not believe it went far enough in relation to transparency. there is a wide consensus that a lack of credibility of regulation contributed to the crisis, since implementation appeared to be severely deficient. traditionally in financial matters a lot of faith is placed in ʽmarket disciplineʼ, but to have the system of market monitoring functioning well, transparency is very important as well. this means that not only the necessary information must be available but also that this information is effectively reaching the market, and, moreover, is adequately interpreted by the market participants and also used in their decisions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending regulation (ec) no 2532/98 concerning the powers of the european central bank to impose sanctions. the financial crisis highlighted the need for better regulation and supervision of the financial sector in the eu. new rules have been adopted to ensure that all financial actors, products and markets are appropriately regulated and efficiently supervised. there is a wide consensus that a lack of credibility of regulation contributed to the euro area crisis since implementation appeared to be severely deficient. it has become clear that a better governed and more deeply integrated economic and monetary union is required. for regulation to be fully efficient, it needs to be accompanied by thorough supervision and enforcement. i support the ecb recommendation to upgrade the supervision of the financial sector at eu level: improving coordination between national supervisors on the one hand and enhancing eu-wide supervision to deal with risks and issues with cross-border effects on the other hand. both supervision levels are complementary and essential to safeguard financial stability in europe.
mr president, global warming is costing the world more than usd 1.2 trillion a year, not to mention the human cost of climate change, which is simply unbelievable. climate change has increased extreme weather events everywhere, including numerous examples in my region in the west midlands. these have resulted in floods which have caused significant damage to no less than 70% of businesses over the last few years. west midlands is also facing an increased risk of water shortages and lower agricultural productivity. the list can go on of events caused by climate change. so while the precise consequences may differ from region to region and country to country, we are all affected. that is why i voted in favour of the motion for the resolution on the 2014 climate change conference. it is crucial that the eu takes a leading role during the cop 20 in lima. this will be crucial for paving the way towards an ambitious and legally-binding international agreement for climate action, to be agreed in paris next year.
madam president, we are often told that politicians should leave the field of climatology to the experts. of course, that is true, but it works both ways around. i am not the right person to ask about meteorology or ocean currents or the medieval warm period or sunspots – absolutely, leave that to the experts. but i am an elected legislator, and it seems to me that the question of how we respond proportionately and how we maximise our resources in dealing with the issue is the proper business of those of us who are answerable to constituents rather than of specialists in the field of climatology. let us accept what seems to be the consensus, which is that the world is warming partly as a result of human activity. how we then deal with that is a political, rather than a scientific, question. the particular issue is how much we spend on seeking very slightly to mitigate the rise in temperatures with huge sums of money, versus adapting with a fractional sum of money. i look around the world and i see that in helsinki the mean temperature is about 5 degrees, in athens it is about 21 degrees, in rio about 35 degrees. all support large human populations. i think we might just be able to adapt.
in writing. - i cannot support the wording of this resolution, despite believing that we should protect the environment of the world in which we live.
in writing. – the effects of climate change cut across societies, economies and every single ecosystem. it is essential that we strengthen international efforts to mitigate against these effects and next week's climate change conference in lima is an important part of those efforts. the eu has taken significant steps to reduce carbon emissions but more needs to be done. my own country, scotland, has set a target to use renewables to generate the equivalent of 100 per cent of our gross annual electricity consumption by 2020. scotland is a relatively small country but efforts such as this are essential if we are to tackle climate change.
in writing. - i strongly supported the resolution, as climate change represents an urgent and potentially irreversible threat that must be addressed at international level. the eu must do its utmost at the upcoming un climate summit to ensure that significant progress is made towards achieving a new global climate agreement. it must remain on the front line and broker the best possible deal for human societies, biodiversity and the planet.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution which ʽemphasises that global climate change policies are based on the 1992 un conference on environment and development (unced) and that they are an integral part of the global efforts to promote sustainable development all over the world; stresses that the climate change policies must be seen in this wider context and linked with the follow-up on the rio conference, the millennium development goals and the post-2015 agendaʼ.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution on the climate change conference in lima as the eu delegation plays a vital role in climate change negotiations. climate change represents an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, and must thus be addressed at international level by all parties. it poses an unprecedented threat to the biosphere, to the availability and supply of food and water, in particular to poor people on most continents, and to health, livelihoods and economic development around the globe. i expect the new commission to assume a proactive role in addressing the global climate crisis, including in terms of additional climate financing. the commission must make it clear that the climate challenge is one of its top strategic priorities and to organise itself in a way which reflects this, at all levels and across all sectors in domestic and external policies and actions. i am concerned by the extraordinary scale and seriousness of the threats induced by climate change and i fully support participation of the european union in climate change negotiations in lima.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe we need to take climate change seriously and that the eu should remain on the front line to broker the best deal.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, today’s debate is quite simply saying that, if we support a two-state solution, then we must support palestine as a state. it is an attempt to break the deadlock in which the viability of the two-state solution is increasingly questioned to avoid a new apartheid, which some say is already here. we used to talk about a roadmap, but that has been forgotten. this is an attempt to restart the journey. to our israeli friends, your representative called this move giving palestinians a state on ‘a silver platter’. some platter! but, as my own party has said in britain, palestinian statehood is not a gift to be given, it is a right to be recognised. our move today is supported by former israeli ambassadors to france, turkey and south africa, the former israeli attorney general and the former speaker of the knesset. they are not anti-israel and, i promise you, neither are we. my group absolutely joins the condemnation of the horrendous har nof synagogue bombing, but the conclusion we draw from this and other terrorist acts is that status quo is not guaranteeing peace and security for the israeli people. to those who have argued for delay this week, why should parliaments in spain, france, sweden, ireland, the united kingdom and now denmark take the initiative, but not this european parliament? to my friends in the european people’s party, your current offer is to say that recognition can only be the outcome of successful talks, but that is only restating what is already the case. we share your concern that this must be a contribution towards talks, and i restate our willingness to find with you a good compromise on this point. to our palestinian friends, we recognise that you have held back on asking us to do this until now, and we recognise that international recognition is vital to maintaining hope amongst your people to sustain political support for peace. why should the european parliament act? because there is impatience at the continued settlement-building and despair at the continuing death toll. because, as we have already heard from mrs mogherini, eu foreign ministers are discussing this, and there are merits to a common eu approach. because, on the day of the award of the sakharov prize, our parliament should remember the israeli woman to whom we gave the sakharov prize in 2001, who lost her own child to a palestine suicide bomber, and who asked us to support this proposal. given what she lost and what she asked us, who are we to disagree? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – does mr howitt accept that one of the largest stumbling blocks to a lasting peace is the hamas call for the destruction of the state of israel? does he agree with me that, were hamas to revoke this core principle, then it could lead to a fresh, everlasting approach?
blue-card answer. – i am absolutely for hamas and everyone else recognising the right of israel to exist, and for peace and security for the israeli people. my group will always speak out against terrorism. however, these terrorist acts are killing israelis just as palestinians were killed in gaza, and the status quo is failing. my group believes that this initiative can, in recognising the palestinian state, provide the extra impetus which finally brings talks to a successful conclusion and peace to the middle east. this is a vote for peace.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we in this house all dream of the day when we may welcome the end of the hostilities and when peace between israel and the palestinians will finally be achieved in the middle east. for as long as i have been an mep, the debate as to how we can in fact realise this objective has been a matter of fierce exchange in this house and elsewhere. my group, the ecr, accepts that lasting peace can only be achieved when all sides return to the negotiating table in order to bring about a two-state solution. we support this two-state solution as being the only feasible outcome for long-term peace and stability, and we are fully committed to working towards the eventual recognition of a sovereign, independent, democratic and viable palestinian state, which may peacefully co-exist alongside israel, based on the 1967 borders with land for peace swaps. however, i personally have deep concerns regarding whether this particular motion today, for unilateral recognition of palestine, is premature. the dual needs of mutual recognition and concrete security arrangements on the ground, which are of paramount importance in achieving peace, would not be addressed by eu member states granting immediate symbolic recognition to a fledgling palestinian state. furthermore, there are fears that this resolution might endanger peace by facilitating a hardening of the palestinian position towards more intransigence and preventing lasting mutual recognition. this will all require much compromise in order to achieve the final agreement. as such, unilateral recognition of a palestinian state at this stage would, in my view, arguably not assist in bringing prime minister netanyahu and president abbas to the negotiating table, but might actually result in pushing the two sides further apart. we must recognise the palestinian state at a time most helpful to the peace process. but firstly we must resolve the question of gaza under hamas, which is an eu-designated terrorist organisation. whilst i have serious reservations as to whether this resolution is a good idea at this time, solving this issue will nevertheless remain a foreign policy priority for the ecr, and i agree with you, madam vice-president/high representative: the 2002 arab peace initiative is a very good place to start the negotiations, even today, a decade later.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, 135 countries already – representing approximately 80% of the world’s population – recognise palestinian statehood. this includes eight eu member states, most recently sweden. there have been resolutions passed in ireland and britain calling for recognition of palestinian statehood. similar debates will take place in france, belgium and demark. the israeli onslaught in gaza this summer has shown that the status quo is not acceptable to the millions we represent who protested, and it should not be acceptable to anyone who genuinely supports a peaceful and just resolution. those who claim that recognition of the palestinian state would negatively impact on future negotiations, ignore the reality that 20 years of negotiations have advanced little and have reinforced israel’s occupation, which consistently undermines a two-state solution through settlement expansion and land confiscation. the international community needs to influence change by action, because the worrying situation emerging in east jerusalem and the preposterous jewish state bill demonstrate clearly that israel is not prepared to be a partner for peace. recognising the state of palestine on the 1967 borders will send a clear message that the international community and the eu are opposed to occupation and committed to a two-state solution involving two fully-fledged, recognised states, as outlined by the high representative: israel and palestine.
blue-card question. – the eu’s interference in ukraine was close to causing war, and i do not see why it would do any good for this body to interfere in the arrangements that are already being made by major states. this business in palestine/israel has been going on for the best part of 2 000 years, and if the roman empire and pontius pilate could not solve it with their rather rougher methods, i do not see how this body can do much better. why not leave it to the americans, the british, the french and the russians – the major powers – to settle this as best they can? it does no good for people in this chamber to interfere in this.
mr president, i would like to add my own congratulations to the high representative’s very lucid opening remarks. this century-old tragedy has its roots in empire. my own country, scotland – and indeed the uk – has a bounden moral duty of obligation to the peoples of this region. statehood has long been promised, and this is not a new discussion. going right the way back to 1917, balfour, a scotsman, contemplated two states in the balfour declaration. the uk’s own white paper of 1939 read ‘the objective of his majesty’s government is the establishment within 10 years of an independent palestine state’. in scotland today we support recognition, government and parliament, alongside many other countries. to those that say that negotiations with israel should not be circumvented and that now is not the right time, i say: no, enough. that line has been used to give israel a veto over the whole process for too long. we need to change tack, colleagues. there is no peace process worth the name. israel’s policies account for the lion’s share of that failure, alongside our own hypocrisy and inaction. we must recognise palestine urgently.
mr president, [no sound] … quite correctly observed when europe does not anchor itself firmly to its values, it sets itself adrift. we have much of which to be proud in our history, but the burned scars on children in gaza have left a permanent imprint on the minds of our citizens and are now permanently etched on our humanity. far too many of our governments have been caught off guard and out of step with public opinion: rushing to provide denials as europeans watched the horrors inflicted on innocents unfolding second by second, their suffering and hopelessness capturing the european conscience, pleading for calls of ‘never again!’ today our parliaments are reflecting that public mood, one after another lining up to state clearly that the time has come to give the palestinians a state and a homeland in order to protect them. there should be no parliament from where that call should be louder or clearer than the european parliament. madam vice-president of the commission, you quite clearly have recognised the urgency we feel that this matter should be dealt with, yet illegal settlements continue as we sit here debating. a failure to do all in our power to end such horrors so that this should never happen again is to unanchor europe and set ourselves adrift from our values and our humanity. madam, be innovative, and this parliament will be with you. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – in my remarks i very clearly referred to the ‘innocents’. there are innocents on all sides. the fact that we are seeing young children being subjected to the sorts of horrors which are completely unimaginable ought to awaken the humanity in all of us. that is where europe must once again pin its values and pin the hopes of the citizens of europe, who today want us to come forward with a positive, momentous action programme. that is something to which i believe our high representative was referring today, and for that you will have our support.
mr president, let begin by thanking high representative mogherini for the hard work that she is putting in to find a solution to this terrible problem in the middle east. one hundred and thirty-five countries, including many european ones, have already recognised palestine. recently sweden and the parliaments in the uk, ireland and spain followed suit. while this is progress, it is saddening that it took over 2 000 gazans to die in the latest israeli attack for europe to start acting. every nation deserves to be recognised, and the palestinians have suffered immensely. it is a huge disappointment that the eu vote has been delayed. every second wasted costs innocent lives. the greatest threat is the illegal settlements in palestine, which continue to grow without account. the two-state solution is the only real chance for peace, putting both on an equal footing. israeli citizens believe this too, and an israeli petition in favour of this has been publicly handed over outside parliament this evening. the eu must have a coordinated approach to ensure peace and security and stability for all. it is time to give the palestinians some hope. i urge all of us to take the bold step forward and vote to recognise palestine.
blue-card question. – you mentioned south africa. do you not agree with the words of nelson mandela, who once said that he could not conceive of israel withdrawing or giving up land if arab states did not recognise israel within secure borders? do you not recognise that passing the motions that you want to have in this house will lead to a government of hamas, a terrorist organisation which does not accept the right of israel to exist, and therefore there will be no peace?
mr president, this is a very serious situation, as we all know, and of course, we all want a fair resolution for both sides, and this can only be done through serious international diplomacy. i would suggest national diplomacy, but i do hope that everyone’s diplomacy works. this is far too serious. it is too serious as well for gesture politics, and yet everywhere i go, at home and here, i see those on the left making gesture politics: queuing up to expose their bleeding heart about this, and then not having the courage to take questions on the issue when someone wants to discuss it with them. back in dudley, where i come from, the labour group is trying to make a motion to ban the purchase of goods from israel – another absurd gesture. you cannot do these things; this is far too serious. have some grown-up political thought for once, and allow the diplomats to do what is required. these are people’s lives and not just your gestures.
mr president, under our rules of procedure, the catch-the-eye procedure is supposed to be for individual members, not for spokesmen of political groups. i know this because i was the rapporteur that introduced this into our rules of procedure many years ago. it is supposed to be for individual backbenchers, not spokesmen of political groups, and if you say you have taken one backbencher per political group, then that is discriminatory against the backbenchers from the large groups. it favours the backbenchers from the small groups and the non-attached members. so that is not a correct application of the procedure.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there are certain fundamental values and principles which we should all agree about. this is one of those issues where our political affiliations, ideologies, genders and nationalities should be put aside to focus on how we can really protect and provide for the generations which will follow us. how we treat our children, and those of the most vulnerable, is how we should be judged as a society and as democracies. how well we protect those that do not always have the ability to protect themselves is also how we should be judged as legislators. this parliament has done a lot of work in the area of children’s rights, but we need to do more. more needs to be done to protect children in the online world, and to protect them from exploitation and bring to justice those who commit the most despicable of crimes. more also needs to be done in our relationship with third countries to see how we can better harness the influence and resources of the eu to protect children in conflict zones. we must end the devastating effects of children being used as soldiers, being trafficked and being torn away from their homes, their families and their childhoods. we must also do more to battle the most basic but serious of challenges such as hunger and poverty, and to make sure children no longer needlessly die around the world from a lack of access to health care. every child should have the right not to be trapped by their own circumstances, but for their life to be full of potential and opportunities, regardless of their gender, their background, their financial situation, disabilities, ethnicities and religions. i trust that, at least on this issue, we can all be in agreement. (applause)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i welcome the opportunity to put children and young people’s rights to the front of the eu agenda. a lot has changed since the original un convention on the rights of the child, both for better and worse, and i am happy that the resolution takes note of the new challenges facing children and young people today. we must put young people at the heart of policy and encourage their involvement in the decision-making process. we must encourage young adults to vote and make their voice heard, and use their expertise to help to educate, to inform and to make, for example, the internet a safer place. a spotlight programme recently exposed facebook photos of schoolchildren in the north of ireland being exploited. we need to empower young children and young people to preserve their internet integrity, and we need to ensure their privacy is protected. we must continue to push children’s rights globally and ensure all children have the right to a childhood free from war and all the atrocities that accompany it, and i am mindful of the children in palestine whom we spoke about here earlier today. within the eu we must put a renewed focus on children and young people, as many of them have paid the awful price for the reckless bankers who created the economic crisis and the subsequent relentless austerity policies that followed, and the lack of investment in our young people, our tomorrow’s world, is absolutely appalling.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, that is another francophone gender identity crisis! i too want very much to welcome the cross-party initiative in this house and the substantial resolution that has been tabled. the convention has been an extremely important initiative and, as we look to children’s futures, we can see that many of them face a very uncertain future across this globe – whether that be the impact of climate change, experience of conflict or the gross inequalities that exist both within and between countries. that is why a revised children’s rights strategy is important for us in this parliament. we have yet to deliver, for example, on real gender equality throughout the world, which is having such a major impact on so many girls’ lives, as we have clearly seen from the sakharov prize winners of last year and this. they clearly demonstrate also the need for every child to be able to live in peace, free from violence. we trust that the millennium development goals and the post-2015 framework will also help move things forward. yesterday’s eu 2020 strategy resolution and today’s resolution both make reference to the commission’s recommendation on investing in children, breaking the cycle and enabling all children to fulfil their potential. i trust that we can bring that perspective into the investment package that was introduced to us today. we need to address the inequality of opportunity faced by many, even in the european union and even in the richest areas, such as london, which has the highest rate of child poverty in the uk. so there is a lot in which we can invest to help give our children better lives – whether that be housing, better health care or the opportunity to play in a healthy environment. we need to be mainstreaming that way of thinking across all our policy areas.
mr president, i think it is an important debate we are having today, and i want to firstly put on record my thanks to organisations like unicef which work very hard to promote children’s rights in very difficult situations all over the world. we have had 25 years of some progress, but, as colleagues here have said, also some difficult situations. elena valenciano talked in particular about the problems facing girls, and this is something i hope the new commission will address, particularly in our external policies as well as our internal and development policies, because we know that girls are getting left behind with all the problems that were outlined. dr mukwege told us this lunchtime about appalling abuse: sexual abuse of children and babies that he has seen and had to deal with, and i think this shows us that there is still a long way to go. in my own country, though, we are unearthing many scandals of children having been exploited in the past and being exploited now today, and abused; many in the state’s care. so in our own countries we have work to do. the question is: what are we going to do about it? next year we have an opportunity, because world leaders will gather at the united nations in september and they will agree a successor programme to the millennium development goals. we know those mdgs delivered for children in some areas, and now we need to make sure the new sustainable development goals (sdgs) really deliver for children, and i hope the new commission will put its focus on making sure that happens and that they will deliver a programme for us on children for that negotiation.
madam president, there are four european union member states in the g20 as well as the european union itself. and, sadly for all of us, our growth is stagnating while by and large the growth of the other g20 countries is rapidly expanding. so, while i welcome the commission’s investment pledge that we heard today – to kick-start the european economy – i think we have to be realistic and say that we cannot have sustained economic recovery by endogenous means alone. we need to look to exogenous growth in order to get our economy really moving and to sustain our growth. that means expanding our international trade agenda. as the world’s biggest market, we are not yet realising our full potential. the g20 reaffirmed its commitment to the multilateral trading system, something i and my group welcome. we welcome the fact that the bali package has been given a kick-start as a result of the g20 negotiations. but for the immediate future, multilateralism is not going to be the answer, sadly but realistically, so we have to look at our bilateral trade agenda. we have to make sure that the singapore and the canadian free trade agreements are ratified. we have to make sure that we succeed in our negotiations with the us and japan; we have to ensure that we get a good investment agreement with china. but we have to ensure that we do all of these things not at any price, but at the values – funnily enough – set out by the g20. we have to ensure that these agreements include an emphasis on fair growth, an emphasis on sustainable development and fair labour standards and tax transparency and strong financial regulation. if we can achieve that in our bilateral trade agreements, we can contribute to the g20 objectives and to expanding the european economy.
madam president, mr gozi said the result of the g20 was favourable to his view of economics. well, if his view of economics is reflected in what mr juncker said this morning, with his giant watering can of eu funding that he was going to randomly splash around the place to an economy that is already in debt – up to 90% of gdp, by his figures, and 50% of that gdp made up of the state sector – only weeds of financial mismanagement, debt and despair will grow in mr juncker’s garden. frankly, if that is what we are trying to achieve, god help us.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we need a 21st century approach to the digital world. if we do not make it easy for organisations, businesses and customers to operate electronically, it will harm competitiveness, jobs and growth and e-commerce, particularly in terms of the savings for consumers and opportunities for business. but it is essential that we also work with partners around the world. we cannot afford a ‘fortress europe’ approach. we must have an open internet where traffic is treated equally. but advances in internet protocol television (iptv) in particular put pressure on capacity, meaning service providers need to address technical management issues. we need infrastructure investment, and we need to promote an environment that encourages that investment. however, fundamentally-anti-competitive behaviour is not acceptable. as in all sectors, dominant players should not be allowed to abuse market positions to the detriment of others. internet searches should not discriminate, and search results for users should be unbiased. but this is a competition law issue, and the eu competition commissioner plays an important legal role. it would be entirely inappropriate for the european parliament to prejudge the legal process of any investigation. in the past, when competition laws had been breached, the competition commissioner has prescribed various remedies, including fines, ring fencing or perhaps even requiring companies to spin off parts of their operation. this resolution should not be read as an instruction to the competition commissioner on what specific actions she should take in her current investigation. the resolution, however, is not just about searches; it is about the whole digital market place. we must join the race, embrace the digital world, or our economy will be left behind. my group’s amendments focus on the benefits of e-commerce for businesses and consumers, and on real actions we can take to tear down the barriers that our digital entrepreneurs face. i hope this house will support those amendments. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card question. – thank you for your enthusiasm to answer the question. that is lovely. i was wondering if you would share with me the concern that if too much regulation comes from the eu – or any state or organisation – into the internet, it could stifle the growing political discourse that goes on in the internet, shown brilliantly by barack obama and being shown in our own country as well. we have to be very mindful of that. would you agree?
blue-card answer. – that, sir, is precisely why i say we must break down barriers – including legislative barriers – to enable our entrepreneurs to trade across the market of 600 million customers across europe. that is why i am prepared to enter into the negotiations to help consumers and businesses to trade in this marketplace. i have yet to see your group turn up to the negotiations.
mr president, i really welcomed commissioner ansip’s initial comments when he talked about the telecoms council meeting tomorrow and the disappointment that we fear will be had with the result there, and i think that parliament took a very strong position and we hope that tomorrow, the council and the member states will see sense. we live in exciting but technologically disruptive times. just 25 years ago the world wide web was founded; just three years ago smartphones became commercially available and affordable, and technology is changing and transforming our day-to-day lives. sadly, the digital single market still remains fragmented, and not every eu citizen has access or possesses the relevant skills in order to benefit fully from what digital technologies and the internet have to offer. in my constituency of scotland, there are still too many areas where access to fast and reliable broadband is non-existent, thus denying eu citizens access to the potential that is there within the digital single market. we need an internet which is accessible and affordable to all, as well as safe to all. wi-fi access for everyone in every cafe and public space is not a reality in europe today. all our connector devices use radio waves, and that is why spectrum policy and member state coordination of spectrum policy becomes vital. we need to prepare our citizens for the opportunities of this new marketplace by providing them with digital skills as well as stimulating digital entrepreneurship. i would like to say thank you to commissioner ansip and that i think we all look forward to working with him in the weeks, the months and the years ahead to make this a reality.
mr president, as someone rather legendary online – star trek’s commander spock – would say: ʽthis is most illogicalʼ. the growth potential of the digital single market is being overstated here. who would buy software in a language they do not speak or when technical support is unavailable in their mother tongue? the real barrier is not the 28 countries but the 24 languages. as a consumer, digital single market or no, i am more likely to buy american or spanish software than german, because i do not speak german. if a uk company sells uk software to a uk consumer, there is no need for a layer of eu red tape to strangle it. let us keep our internet free from political interference. let us keep our internet free from censorship. let us stop tilting at windmills, taking on the might of google. sadly, many of the benefits of these proposals, like spock, are totally fictional.
blue-card question. – in my constituency, north-east england, the steel industry is in serious trouble. jobs have been lost in teesside and 40% of the cost of that industry lies in the cost of energy. high energy prices are putting people out of work. i also know people who sell scrap metal, and they now sell it to india because they can sell it at higher prices to india than they can to the uk. do you accept that something desperately needs to be done about high energy prices in order to save the steel industry?
mr president, unlike most british government politicians, i actually worked for a living before i had the honour of being elected. i worked for 20 years in the steel industry in the uk. during that time i saw it change from when we had state-of-the-art service centres that were absolutely fantastic. they were well ahead of their time – it was the 1990s – and were superb. we were using mainly european steel. i was in the stainless sector. over the period of my career in that industry, i saw it change. the stainless steel that we were using was coming from taiwan and the far east and the service centres – mostly the ones with technical details – moved to germany. what has happened is very straightforward. we have a situation in the uk where a company i know of is collecting scrap metal. it drives round in a truck and picks up the scrap metal, takes it to its furnaces and makes ingots. it then takes them back out and sells them. the same trucks go round the area and collect the scrap metal and put it on a container to china. it comes back on a container from china, comes on a truck into our area and is sold for half the price. the reason is very simple. it is not lack of skill or technical ability. it is entirely to do with the constriction of regulation and carbon emission controls which are being applied and which are stopping our people from trading fairly. there is a very simple answer. steel and stainless steel goes really well into a form of energy production – and it is not windmills, folks. what it is – and i will whisper it – is nuclear: nuclear power stations, a new generation of them, across the uk making cheap, effective clean energy with british and european steel producing them. what a great solution. what a boost for industry and what a way forward. we can actually compete again rather than shipping all of our industry to the far east.
author. - mr president, the millennium development goals set clear objectives that include the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger and the drastic reduction of child mortality. looking at progress in this area, we have made progress, but despite that, the number of children dying or suffering from undernutrition remains unacceptably high. this oral question and resolution seeks to ensure this issue is given the priority it deserves by the commission in our collective action towards the post-2015 global development framework. undernutrition represents an enormous development challenge. the world health organisation says that undernutrition is the biggest contributor to child mortality, causing 35% of the disease burden in children under five. it can create a vicious cycle of poverty, can reduce productivity and impede social and economic development. that is why the fight against child undernutrition and the provision of universal access to adequate nutritious food should remain as one of the major goals in the post-2015 agenda. we voted on tuesday on that issue, and it is something we do feel is very important. in the draft document by the own working group of the united nations, goal 2 of the draft sdgs has a target to end all forms of malnutrition by 2030 and by 2025 achieve the internationally-agreed targets on stunting and wasting in children under five. the world health organisation assembly endorses the global target for a 40% reduction of the global number of children under five who are stunted by 2025. that means reducing the number of stunted children by more than 70 million – 70 million, colleagues – by 2025. in the stier report on tuesday, our parliament voted with a huge majority to support this objective and goes further, calling for the zero hunger goal to end the scandal of hunger by 2025. it calls for promoting sustainable agriculture and recognising the specific needs of women farmers related to food security. these are vital efforts in our fight against child malnutrition. so what we are asking the commission for this morning, and why we have asked for this debate, is because we now need a concrete action plan from the commission on how we, as the european union, can contribute to the child undernutrition targets, and how we can work with our international partners to achieve this. i understand that the commission services have been working on an action plan on nutrition, and i wonder, commissioner, could you update us on this and tell us what is happening and when we can expect something concrete? and how can the commission ensure coordination, both in its different policies and with our international partners, in speeding up progress towards the who targets? reduced and ending child undernutrition is possible but, like our other development policies, it requires resources, coordination and political will. this week we have had a debate marking the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child. tackling undernutrition in the next 15 to 20 years would be a key contribution to make sure that every child could have the basic right that gives them the opportunity for a decent life.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i remember 30 years ago, back in 1985, bob geldof and others organised live aid to raise relief funds for the ongoing ethiopian famine. we now risk a new famine in ethiopia because of water control of the nile. unlike democratic ethiopia, the egyptian military ruler in the neighbouring country is causing problems by trying to enforce an old colonial right over the nile. i think this is not sustainable; i think that ethiopia, which contributes over 80% of the waters of the nile, should have access to the nile, not just for generating electricity but also for agriculture, and for feeding and providing water for its citizens. i think that we should look at the water rights of all the countries of that region.
author. - mr president, pakistan’s blasphemy law prescribes life imprisonment or even a death sentence for any individual who expresses disparaging remarks about islam. such laws have been invoked in order to target minorities and disproportionately, in particular, have been targeting shia muslims, ahmadi muslims, christians and hindus. sadly, the vast majority of cases are fabricated. death and prison sentences are administered by the lower first instance courts, and whilst pakistan has, to its credit, never actually carried out an execution for blasphemy, significant numbers of those accused and their families are forced to endure threats of – if not actual – mob violence and possibly even public lynchings. whilst pakistan has taken steps in recent years to ensure that renewed respect for fundamental human rights remains a top priority on its political agenda, we must continue to urge the authorities to go further, to adhere to the constitution of pakistan and modern international standards by fully guaranteeing the human rights of all people and citizens in pakistan, particularly the most vulnerable citizens, minority groups, women and children. therefore my group, the ecr, urges pakistan to repeal these laws, which incite profound intimidation and fear.
blue-card question. – my question is: are we in this house discussing christian rights as opposed to muslim rights? let us not make this debate christianity versus islam. let us defend all people that are targeted under these blasphemy laws. you, sir, and others have mentioned a lot of christian people that have been persecuted throughout the world. we are here to defend all people of all faiths, not just christians.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i speak in my role as chair of parliament’s delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, which includes pakistan. i want once again to reassure members that these issues are raised by the delegation with the highest authorities when we travel there. i think there are many people in pakistan who recognise that there is a need for change, not just for minorities but for all pakistanis, whatever their belief. people should not be facing arbitrary accusation; they should not be in a situation where evidence is presented against them which they cannot hear and which they cannot test. but we also have to realise that to argue for change is really literally putting your life on the line, and i do wonder sometimes how brave many of us would be in those situations. part of what we are trying to do in pakistan is to change the situation on the ground, to make change possible, so that is why we need to support universal education which does not undermine islam but undermines the power of those who would use it for their own purposes. (the speaker agreed to take one blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – ms lambert, you are, of course, chair of the relevant delegation, and there have been calls for a review of aid and trade preferences. would it not be right for us to maintain the reviews that we are carrying out under the scorecard mechanism and, in particular, to keep an eye on who would be most affected by any actions we would wish to take? it is, of course, also very indicative that the pakistani authorities are now beginning to take a certain view on such things, with over 40 arrests having been carried out in the most recent episode. would you regard that as a positive development? would you also agree with me that, in fact, pakistan requires our assistance to deal with this issue, rather than simply receiving resolution after resolution?
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question. i do believe that we should, obviously, be sticking to the european union’s rules about the way we review aid and trade policy. it is something that i have certainly asked for, as a consistency of approach in the way in which we do that. i think the scorecard mechanism is really important. the arrests are welcome as part of a signal from government to people that they should stop the manipulation of these laws. i think we need to be working with the pakistanis to enable change, which is not to say we should step back from the rules we have in place on human rights. (the speaker agreed to take one blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mrs lambert, i too would like to support the point made by my colleague here, sajjad karim, on the scorecard and on the arrests and the investigations. but i would like to ask you as an expert to take up the point made by mr bashir earlier, where he tried to make this out to be something about protecting christians versus muslims. in my reading of the statistics, there is a disproportionate – vastly disproportionate – targeting of minorities, including muslim minorities – the ahmadi muslims in particular, the shia muslim communities, as well as christians and hindus – and statistics would suggest that it is nothing to do with christianity versus islam, it is about targeting minorities. would you agree with that statement?
blue-card answer. – i would not call myself an expert in this, but in terms of the targeting that we are seeing, yes, i think quite a degree of it is against a range of muslims and, indeed, a range of minorities. some of it, i think you can see, is politically manipulated and some of it is much more to settle local scores, but i do think that when we are talking about the issue, we have to be very careful that we are not presenting this in a way which can be interpreted as an anti-islam agenda, because that plays into the hands of those who actually do not want to see any reform.
blue-card question. – does my colleague mr castaldo accept that a lot of the crimes that are being committed, especially in the third world and in pakistan, are due to poverty? is it right that we penalise a nation, and therefore further impoverish people that many a time try and abscond or try and take land, dispossess neighbours, etc? i think it is wrong to penalise a nation on that basis and then cause it to become poorer.
blue-card question. – the question i want to ask is: would she agree with me that some in this house have asked for suspension of the gsp+ agreement? whilst we all agree on the need for a change, if we want to see change and help the victims, do we need to work with pakistan or to threaten pakistan?
mr president, i strongly condemn the brutal killings of shama bibi and shahzad masih, pakistani christians, by a violent mob and other abuses committed in the name of blasphemy. these barbaric acts cannot be acceptable to this parliament, the international community and the pakistani nation. i know the pakistani nation is in a state of deep shock and outrage. it is important to understand that these laws have existed in pakistan since colonial times and that the majority of cases registered under this law have been against muslims. i have been assured by the pakistani authorities that they are taking adequate steps to prevent possible misuse and abuse of the laws. it is also important to remember that no one has so far been punished under these laws. cases instituted under the law have normally failed to withstand judicial scrutiny at the various levels. it has been made compulsory that no police officer below the rank of superintendent of police can investigate the charges.
mr president, i stand here actually feeling very proud of the fact that we are having the type of debate that we are, in this chamber. once again, his holiness the pope took the floor just the day before yesterday and made it clear that when europe does not hold firmly to its values, we are set adrift, and that i see being demonstrated here today. so many of our colleagues may be unaware, but actually this house and the european union have already been instrumental in securing the release of a european citizen from death row in pakistan. it is something that we achieved some years ago. there is no reason why our dialogue should not allow us to pursue that sort of constructive dialogue again. to the commission, i can simply repeat: we have, of course, a variety of calls in terms of the trade relationship that we have with pakistan. after a considerable and very vigorous exercise, we granted the gsp+ to pakistan. we have the scorecard mechanism. let us please apply that as vigorously as we possibly can. this is a time for every colleague in this house to come together and work with pakistan in order to achieve the ultimate end of saving that life.
, in writing.– under blasphemy laws in pakistan, defiling the koran or insulting the prophet muhammed can result in life imprisonment or the death penalty. under these provisions, which are part of the pakistani penal code, dozens of people are persecuted every year, although the vast majority of cases are actually fabricated and part of land or workplace disputes. while no one has been executed by the state for blasphemy, those accused of breaking these laws often spend years in prison and along with their family are at all times in danger of mob violence. even advocates for reform in pakistan run the risk of being targeted by extremists. it is abundantly clear that the blasphemy laws have been used to instil fear into religious minority communities, and in particular christians. while minority rights are guaranteed by pakistan’s constitution, the government must actively address religious hostility within society. pakistan has a duty to respect, and provide adequate protection to, people of all faiths. freedom of thought, conscience and religion are fundamental human rights. these rights belong to all pakistanis, irrespective of their faith.
author. - mr president, as chair of the delegation for relations with iraq, i welcome the creation of the new unity government in iraq and offer my delegation’s unwavering support in helping it to build a fairer, more inclusive society, including one which protects and promotes the rights of women. i condemn without reservation the barbaric killings, kidnappings, rapes, sexual violence and torture committed by isis fighters in iraq. such actions arguably constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity. these terror attacks against women and girls, committed by the so-called islamic state and associated groups, are inhuman. they also include targeted attacks against members of the ethnic and religious minorities such as kurds, syrians, christians, yazidis and turkmen. the utterly abhorrent use of forced religious conversions, forced marriage, sexual enslavement and gender-based violence by isis against women and girls in iraq is evidence of this. further steps need be taken to ensure the safety of women and girls ... (the president cut of the speaker)
author. - mr president, in the minute available i will do my best to take stock of the dreadful situation in iraq. it is important that we remember that the intervention in iraq was a catastrophic failure of judgement and politics on the part of the western community, and those in favour of intervention should hang their heads in shame. we have tipped iraq into the abyss and women are suffering, men are suffering, children are suffering, but it is right that in this resolution we take stock of the dreadful situation of women in particular. we have a couple of ideas in the text. there is much in the text to admire: paragraph 12 in particular raises the plight of the lgbt community within iraq. paragraph 13 urges iraq to implement un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. we do have a few ideas within this resolution about how to improve the situation of women in iraq, but we have a historic responsibility to the women, men and children of iraq to not walk away and to remain engaged to make their lives better.
mr president, under the rules, people are not supposed to display banners in parliament, and yet we have a whole array of banners over there. can you please ask our colleagues to take them down? otherwise we will all have the same right to display banners.
mr president, it is important that we take a strong line on tax avoidance. it is unacceptable that large corporations are getting away with using facilities paid for by citizens without contributing their fair share in return because certain countries are exploiting loopholes in legislation. president juncker has serious questions to answer about this and we will make sure he does. but, instead of bringing down the commission, we should make it tackle the issue head-on. that would truly be in the interests of our citizens. i strongly doubt that it was the interests of our citizens which guided the instigators of this motion for resolution in the first place. i wonder: might they just be after a prolonged inquiry that is not necessarily the best way to tackle this issue and just keeps them in the news? that is why i voted against this motion.
mr president, i voted against mr juncker’s appointment and i voted against his commission. i was unusual, i think, only in being open in voting against him; you could not find anyone who was privately in favour of him. his views are out of step with europe. it was like a shade, a spectre from the 1950s rattling its chain, still talking about the harmonisation of minimum wages and fiscal policy and all the rest of it. nonetheless he is entitled, as anyone else, to the presumption of innocence. an investigation has just been launched and has not concluded. this motion is badly timed, badly conceived, and badly drafted. i was not able to support it because, of all the reasons that i could give for wanting to get rid of mr juncker, the fact that he presided over a low tax regime is not one of them, unless he has been found to have done something illegal. and this is a point that my colleagues on the left seem to have missed completely. it is not a crime to cut your taxes, and the solution to a country having lower taxes than yours is not to try and legislate, to export your costs to them – it is to cut your own taxes.
in writing. - it was important to vote in the public interest, rather than in the interests of the political establishment. luxleaks must not be swept under the carpet.
in writing. – i voted against the motion of censure on thursday 27 november. the motion was an attempt by the far-right groups in the european parliament to oust juncker with no regard to a possible change in practices or a call for a thorough investigation. my group in the parliament have outlined a comprehensive plan to tackle the pervasive problem of large-scale tax avoidance, rather than looking for a scapegoat. i believe this approach is most productive, and in the best interests of my constituents in wales.
in writing. — we need urgent action to tackle tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance but this motion is not the way forward. commission president juncker still has questions to answer on how he will bring forward and enact proposals to crack down on tax avoidance across europe. people are angry about legal loopholes and a lack of cooperation between european countries which mean that some people and corporations are still not paying their fair share in tax. we need urgent action to tackle these problems, but this resolution does nothing to tackle tax avoidance. we need to agree that all multinational companies should be compelled to report what they earn, where they earn it and how much tax they pay. we need a common approach to tackle the use of tax havens once and for all and a blacklist of those companies that are engaging in tax fraud. this resolution does not address these issues and i cannot support such a motion.
in writing. - i voted against this motion. mr juncker still has questions to answer, both about his own conduct in the past and on how he will bring forward and enact proposals to crack down on tax avoidance across europe. people are angry that legal loopholes and a lack of cooperation between european countries mean that some are not paying their fair share in tax. we need urgent action. this resolution however does nothing to tackle tax avoidance. it merely represents the hypocrisy of the members who initiated it, as they have voted against tax transparency measures in the past.
in writing. — today i voted against the motion of censure on the commission. aggressive corporate tax avoidance schemes in eu member states, particularly the one applied in the grand duchy of luxembourg, have caused the loss of billions of euros in potential tax revenues to other eu member states. corporate tax avoidance schemes are contradictory to the values of ensuring a fair share of contributions by all sectors of society, including business. however, a motion of censure on the commission is not an effective way of addressing the issue of the tax avoidance scheme in luxembourg.
in writing. - i believe that a national government should be free to create an advantageous tax regime in its own country. however, i do not approve of mr juncker’s appointment as commission president and there seems to be a basic incompatibility between his present and previous roles. i await the outcome of the inquiry before passing judgement. in accordance with my ecr political group, i therefore abstained.
in writing. — i voted against the motion of censure against commission president jean-claude juncker’s team in thursday’s vote. the damage that would have ensured had this vote been successful would have undermined not only the commission, but also the wider union.
in writing. – i do not believe that british banks should foot the bill for such expenditures.
in writing. – i have no objections to the delegated regulation. it will allow the single resolution board to operate smoothly.
in writing. — i voted in support of the draft decision on the provisional system of instalments on contributions to cover the administrative expenditures of the single resolution board during the provisional period. the board will have an autonomous budget which is not part of the union budget and will be financed through contributions from the banking sector. in particular, contributions for the administrative expenditures of the board are to be paid by the credit institutions, parent undertakings, investment firms and financial institutions that are covered by the srm regulation.
mr president, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because delays in the programming for cohesion policies mean that in england, european structural investment fund programmes might not be approved this year. one of the key reasons is that the uk government has, crucially, failed to provide the vehicles responsible for implementing the funds with the appropriate delegated powers. this means that the uk government is effectively jeopardising the allocation of eur 909 million in funds to my region, the west midlands, which could be used to deliver growth in our towns and cities. partners are ready and willing to act, but it appears that the crucial obstacle is the uk government’s continued reluctance to delegate the most minimal of powers to get these programmes agreed with the commission.
mr president, i voted in favour of the cohesion funding resolution because my home region, the north-east of england, benefits from millions of pounds in european funding which goes to support projects across the region. these projects have created and continue to create jobs, improve our skills base and grow our regional economy. the current delay in agreeing england’s regional operational programme is jeopardising that crucial investment, and i believe that the uk government is endangering the funds. not only did the government unilaterally abolish the established and respected regional development agencies but, to add insult to injury, they have not done enough to ensure that the replacement local economic partnerships are adequately resourced or accountable. my constituency is caught in the centre of this, and i strongly support the resolution’s call for the commission and national governments to show responsibility in resolving this situation as quickly as possible. with the highest overall unemployment and youth unemployment in the uk and with gbp 724 million foreseen in the next seven years, we have a lot at stake.
mr president, i supported the motion on the delays in the start-up of cohesion policy. i want to send a very clear message to the commission and the national governments that they must get their acts together. over gbp 400 million in eu funding for the south-east of england risks being delayed if operational programmes are not formally adopted in time. that means local projects to create local jobs, train young people and improve infrastructure, all at risk of being put on hold. the commission must do all it can to speed up this process to enable those projects to begin on time; procedures must be followed, but there should also be some flexibility in this. they should make sure that implementation can begin as soon as they agree in principle to the programmes. that way, local authorities can begin to apply to get vital projects funded and up and running as soon as possible.
mr president, the whole cohesion project must be reckoned one of the most measurable failures since its introduction under the maastricht treaty. the idea was to level the poorer areas up by spending more money in them. well, what was the biggest per capita recipient of eu funds? it was greece. how did that work out? the truth is that if you tax wealthy countries in order to pay poor countries, you end up with fewer wealthy countries and more poor countries. whole states – just as individuals – can become dependent on subsidy. perverse incentives lead them to construct their affairs around the receipt of the grants. we have heard from some of my british colleagues about how important it is to get money for projects in the uk. but of course, not only are we net contributors in the uk, so that they are seeing and counting only the gains rather than the tax; these are not projects that create jobs; these are jobs primarily designed to advertise and aggrandise the european union rather than to stimulate local growth. if you really want to help the stricken areas of europe, we should be doing the opposite of cohesion. we should be encouraging diversity, pluralism and, specifically, allowing them to leave the euro, price themselves back into the market and export their way back to growth.
in writing. - the policy itself is misguided, and will not achieve its intended effect.
in writing. - i strongly support this motion. european funding is crucial to the north-west region and brings lots of benefits to the people. any delay in the council agreeing the programme with the commission could jeopardise a lot of projects. many regions, many small businesses and many non-governmental organisations rely on eu funds to invest and act on the ground. we therefore urge the council to face up its responsibilities. we need the jobs and we need the investment.
in writing. – the cohesion fund lies at the heart of the eu’s growth agenda, and as such is the largest instrument available to the eu to drive investment and to promote growth and jobs. a streamlined cohesion policy has real potential for addressing economic disparities among member states and regions, reducing unemployment and encouraging growth. northern ireland has benefited immensely from european structural and investment funds, and it was hoped that the cohesion fund would simplify the funding process. it was expected that operational programmes would be up and running by the end of 2014. however, we are facing a clear delay at the level of the programming process, and it estimated that only a small number of ops will be adopted by the end of this year. it is vital that there are no further delays. many organisations in northern ireland depend on this funding, and the onus is on the commission and member states to do their utmost to encourage the adoption of a maximum number of operational programmes, and on the commission to present the measures it intends to undertake to proceed with the implementation of the operational programmes.
in writing. — i supported the motion for a resolution on delays in the start-up of cohesion policy for 2014-2020. cohesion policy represents the main eu-wide investment policy in the real economy and is an established catalyst for growth and jobs in the eu, with a budget of over eur 350 billion until 2020. the delay in implementation for the 2014-2020 programming period is challenging national, regional and local authorities’ capacity to plan effectively and implement the european structural and investment funds for the 2014-2020 period. cohesion policy forms a major part of the eu’s strategy to redress regional imbalances and inequalities, to assist diversification and adaptation to industrial change and to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion. i support the request that the eur 315 billion investment package should be fully complementary with the 2014-2020 cohesion policy. in addition, the commission should present the measures it envisages taking and the planned timeline to parliament, as soon as possible, to facilitate the implementation of the operational programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which evaluates the current state of play in the implementation of cohesion policy and highlights concerns regarding the delays in adoption by the european commission of operational programmes (ops). in wales last week, we secured the approval of our european regional development fund programmes and formal approval of our european social fund programmes is expected in the next few weeks. whilst i am pleased to know that these additional funds are on their way to wales, it is clear that overall we are facing a delay at the level of the programming process, with just a limited number of ops foreseen to be adopted by the end of 2014. these delays cause uncertainty and project planning problems for actors at local, regional and national level and i was therefore pleased to support this resolution’s request for the commission to outline clearly how it intends to facilitate, as soon as possible, the implementation of the operational programmes.
in writing. - as a co-signatory of this resolution, i fully supported todayʼs vote which raises concerns about the delays in starting up the next round of cohesion policy. significant delays in agreeing operational programmes will cause problems for national, regional and local authorities across the eu. i am particularly concerned about the effect this will have on english regions and their ability to get projects up and running. i wholeheartedly agree that both the commission and the member states should work together to speed up the process of agreeing the operational programmes and that the commission in particular should put forward solutions to limit damage caused by late implementation. i am concerned by the budgetary impact that these delays will cause, but above all, i am extremely worried about the impact the late approval of operational programmes will have on english regions and the ability to deliver eu-funded projects within an acceptable timeframe.
in writing. – the impact of legislation on smes in particular is a key issue, but i am far from certain that this resolution would have the effect of limiting the legislative burden on smes.
in writing. — today i voted in favour of the resolution on the revision of the commission’s impact assessment guidelines and the role of the sme test. impact assessments, as an early-stage tool when legislation is being developed, play a key role in the commission’s smart regulation agenda with the purpose of providing transparent, comprehensive and balanced evidence on the nature of the problem to be addressed. the existing ia guidelines assign the commission’s secretariat-general and the impact assessment board (iab) a central role in deciding whether or not an impact assessment is necessary for a specific initiative. however, this resolution highlights that the draft revised ia guidelines do not include any provisions on ias for smes and more specifically the sme test. an independent impact assessment is of particular relevance for smes as they often encounter greater difficulties than large enterprises in adapting to new legal and administrative requirements. due to their size they are less capable of anticipating regulatory changes at an early stage. i support the opinion that the commissions impact assessment guidelines need to be revised to include provisions on ias for smes.
in writing. — the need for the commission to regularly review the impact assessment guidelines towards smes is vital when we consider that the cost for an sme to comply with any regulation can be 10 times greater than for larger companies; at the same time there is a need to ensure that regulation which benefits workers is not undermined. to alleviate this problem the resolution calls for the commission to establish a high-level better regulation advisory body involving both stakeholder expertise and national experts, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
mr president, i wholeheartedly support this motion for a resolution, because i fully agree that children’s rights should be at the heart of eu policies. the awful news of child neglect, abuse, trafficking and exploitation that reaches us on a daily basis demonstrates the urgent need for additional measures to protect our children. all children, whatever their social or ethnic background, should receive the highest level of education and care, and protection of migrant children in particular has to be scaled up, because this is one of the most vulnerable groups that is suffering from the inadequate migration laws and too often falling through the gaps in existing policies.
mr president, of course, i too celebrate the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child, and i condemn absolutely, without any reservations whatsoever, the horrific things going on in the world, like child malnutrition, child soldiers, child suicide bombers, forced child marriages and trafficking, and the issue of female genital mutilation, which may even still be occurring in the city of london, which i represent. of course, we have seen the recent horrors of boko haram in nigeria and isis in iraq, raping and enslaving young girls with impunity. however, there are some aspects of the resolution i have concerns about. first of all, it is the member states, not the eu, which have primary competence here. secondly, as a father of three small children myself, i believe that some of the issues concerning early sexualisation and gender identity give me concerns that these may be usurping my parental rights, so i abstained on this motion.
in writing. - many of the votes on this issue related to principles which should be determined by each sovereign nation, not by the european union. the culture in france is rather different to the culture in ireland with respect to sex education, for example. i voted therefore against motions which would have curtailed the freedom of countries to determine their own policies in accordance with the democratic wishes of their citizens.
in writing. — in 1989, the united nations created the convention on the rights of the child (crc), a human rights treaty designed specifically to safeguard the rights of children. 2014 marks the 25th anniversary of this convention, but sadly there is still work to be done. this resolution is important as new issues have arisen since the crc was first ratified; for example, the rise of cyber-attacks on children and the use of children in terrorist activities. while all eu member states have ratified the crc, children’s rights continue to be violated. we must do more to develop an integrated eu strategy to effectively promote and safeguard the rights of the child and to increase the participation of children in parliamentary activities. by creating a parliamentary intergroup that will promote children’s rights across the eu the european parliament is demonstrating its commitment to furthering children’s rights and monitoring progress in this area.
in writing. - despite the un convention’s achievements, millions of children across the world remain vulnerable. children’s rights must be at the heart of eu policies and the 25th anniversary of the convention is an opportunity to ensure its full implementation in policy and to take additional measures to ensure respect for the rights of every child, everywhere.
in writing. — i voted in support of the resolution on the 25th anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child. all the eu member states have ratified the un convention on the rights of the child and have clear legal obligations to promote, protect and fulfil the rights of every child in their jurisdictions. children are particularly affected by poverty and by cuts in social security systems and key social benefits such as family allowances, and such cuts have increased in the eu since 2007. the post-2015 framework for global development will represent an opportunity to invest in the rights of all children, in every place in the world – regardless of the child’s gender, ethnicity, race or economic, disability or other status.
mr president, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, because it is high time that the commission backs up its promises on the digital single market with concrete action. not only are we missing out on eur 260 billion in efficiency gains for each year the digital divide is left gaping – money that could be well used to sustain our recovery from the economic crisis – but completion of the digital single market would also allow us to put europe firmly on the path of innovation, job creation, competitiveness and growth. this cannot be achieved unless the commission takes stronger action to curb the commercial dominance of google in european search engines. a successful digital single market is based on competitive conditions that allow all consumers, internet users and online businesses to benefit, instead of one single company.
in writing. – the digital single market considers all of the benefits but none of the costs of implementation. i abstained on an amendment about net neutrality; whilst i support net neutrality, this should not in itself be a matter for the european union.
in writing. – unlocking the benefits of the digital world is key to delivering competitiveness, jobs and growth. the eu needs to work with partners across the world and avoid a fortress europe approach. it is extremely important that we have an open, accessible and safe internet. against this backdrop, anti-competitive behaviour is not acceptable and as in all sectors, dominant players should not abuse their market position to the detriment of others. however, the ecr group position is that anti-trust investigations must remain independent, and it is not for the european parliament to interfere or prejudge the legal process of any investigation. this is a competition law issue and the eu commissioner for competition must be allowed to follow the correct legal processes. this resolution should not be read as an instruction to the competition commissioner on what action to take on her current investigation. the ecr amendments focus on the benefits of e-commerce for growth and competitiveness and on the real actions we can take to tear down the barriers our digital entrepreneurs face, so that the single market is fit for the digital age.
in writing. — completing the digital single market is something which will be of immeasurable benefit to consumers right across europe. i want to see a more equal and discrimination-free digital single market. users should be able to choose between competitors and a more level playing field will result in more options and choices and even better services in the future. by unbundling search engines from other commercial services we are trying to increase competition in the digital single market and create a level playing field. this will also help to support european innovation, particularly for new start-ups, to foster their potential. i want to see fairer and more transparent competition on the eu market. we cannot allow the monopolisation of the eu search engine market. if a situation arises where one company dominates the market then it is only right that we should support the concept of unbundling search engines from other commercial services in order to create this level playing field. it should not matter if the market is offline or online; companies must fairly compete with one another in order to deliver optimal and neutral results for eu citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution as the text contains strong and important points that would protect consumers and encourage further integration of the digital single market.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the resolution on supporting consumer rights in the digital single market. the digital single market is one of the most innovative sectors of the economy and is therefore playing a major role in the competitiveness of the european economy and contributing to economic growth through the development of e-commerce, while also facilitating the administrative and financial compliance of businesses and presenting consumers with a wider choice of goods and services. in addition, i welcome the announcement of further investigations by the commission into search engine practices and the digital market in general.
in writing. — i voted in favour of breaking down the barriers to the growth of eu’s digital single market. the digital single market is an important step in bringing growth and prosperity to europe. the digital single market could generate an additional eur 260 billion a year for the eu economy, as well as boosting the competitiveness of wales and europe.
mr president, it is totally unacceptable that more than 170 million children under five are undernourished or have stunted growth and 55 million children suffer from severe malnutrition. these numbers should be a wake-up call for us, not only to seriously step up coordination of humanitarian and development aid but also to look at the broader picture and address the root causes of this unacceptable suffering, like drought caused by climate change and political disruptions. we owe it to these children, the communities in these countries and ourselves to leverage all our power to achieve step change in this crucial area.
in writing. – there is a terrible problem here; it is incumbent upon everyone to do their utmost to improve this appalling situation. but the european union itself does not always help. for example, eu policies have harmed fish stocks – in areas where fish form the main source of protein as part of the average diet.
in writing. – it is shocking that 805 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a healthy active life and that poor nutrition causes nearly half of deaths in children under five living in developing countries, or 3.1 million each year. the fight against child under-nutrition, and provision of universal access to adequate nutritious food, must therefore remain one of the major targets of the post-2015 millennium development goals’ agenda for both the eu and the broader international community.
in writing. — i voted in support of the resolution on child undernutrition and malnutrition in developing countries. close to a billion people are still suffering from hunger and at least 225 million of the world’s children under the age of five are suffering from acute and chronic undernutrition or from stunted growth as a result of chronic child and maternal undernutrition, with an estimated 2.6 million of such children dying every year in developing countries. addressing child and maternal undernutrition requires an integrated approach and coordinated action in a number of sectors which influence undernutrition, such as health, education, agriculture, water, energy access and sanitation, together with the responsible involvement of all stakeholders. the commission and the member states must adopt consistent long-term development strategies and make efforts to reduce undernutrition.
in writing. — an estimated 2 billion people globally, or one out of three people in developing countries, are suffering from chronic deficiency of essential vitamins and minerals (micronutrients), a condition known as ‘hidden hunger’, which drastically increases their susceptibility to birth defects, infection and compromised development. almost 20 million children are suffering from severe acute malnutrition in both emergency and non-emergency contexts. i voted to support this resolution as it calls for the eu to increase the support provided by its development aid programmes for sustainable smallholder, peasant and medium-scale agriculture production which will directly address this concerning reality.
mr president, we have already delayed the vote from last month to this month. we have had ample time to try to get a joint resolution agreed, and therefore it is appropriate that we stick to the schedule. we have all been working towards that schedule and we absolutely reject the proposal that we should vote on it on thursday. we should vote on wednesday as is indicated in the schedule.
madam president, i welcome the accession of the eu to the convention on international trade in endangered species. this will enable the eu to take a committed position and play a full role in the convention. article 191 allows the eu to promote measures at international level to deal with worldwide environmental problems; and what could be more apposite than endangered species? all member states are signed up to cites already, so why the necessity for this accession? what does it add? in my view this will give the eu a platform to move forward together at the conference of the parties, employing the power and influence of all 28 member states together, and i hope that in the near future we will be able to use this influence to promote tougher enforcement of the licensing system. barely a week goes by when we do not see some new seizure of goods or medicines fashioned from endangered species, from tigers’ bones to rhino horn. last week we saw in hong kong just such a thing. i would like to see this as just the very beginning of the eu’s new approach to cites. the burden of the questions should be moved not from what we can trade, but why we should trade at all, and the eu could be at the forefront of that discussion.
madam president, we must all cheer about the change in the eu’s status in cites from observer to full member. as a full member the eu will speak with and vote with one voice in cites negotiations. we will also be responsible for implementing and enforcing the convention and will participate fully in cites projects. this marks an important step in the protection of highly endangered species around the world. more than ever, international coordinated action is needed to end illegal wildlife trade, stop poaching and the increasing rate of biodiversity loss. over 20 000 elephants were killed by poachers last year; a record 668 rhinos in south africa alone were killed for their horns just to make trinkets and medicines that do not work. unless we act now these species and many others will become extinct. but the trade in living wild animals is also thriving. at this very moment the zimbabwe government is profiteering from baby elephants removed from their herds to be sold to zoos in china and the uae. these animals face extreme stress, poor conditions and are at a high risk of early death. all parties to cites must act decisively and quickly to prevent animals being traded as commodities. they deserve our protection. we can and must develop an action plan, working closely with countries such as china. the eu can be a global leader in the fight against this serious and most profitable crime as a full member of cites. we have a duty to raise awareness, impose stricter controls and introduce dissuasive penalties for those who profit from illegal wildlife trade.
madam president, if it is large, grey, has a trunk and looks like an elephant, then that is exactly what it is: an elephant. cites was created for signing by sovereign states. however, it is now to be signed by the european union. yet again the european union behaves like a sovereign state. like the elephant, if it has ever more characteristics of a sovereign state, then it is obvious to all that this is exactly what the eu is becoming. there are those, especially in the uk, who are in denial about this fact: that the european union, as a direct, inevitable consequence of the commitment to ever-closer union, and as set out in successive treaties, is taking over the sovereignty of member states. this recommendation is proof positive of what ukip has long been saying (but lib/lab/con denies): that the eu is ever more sovereign. the usual weasel words are in the report. it will enable the commission to lead negotiations and be a catalyst. signing cites may be very sensible for sovereign states, but the eu signing cites represents yet another eu power-grab. the eu acquires the one vote, counting as 28 votes, and my country along with 27 others lose yet another freedom to decide for themselves. truly there is an elephant in the room. it is called the european union.
madam president, it is a sad reflection on mankind that we can put a man on the moon, but we are not capable of keeping some of our most valuable animals alive on earth. we give the highest financial value to those commodities that are scarcest on earth, but sadly that logic applies to animals as well – even to the point that the rarer a species becomes, the more sought-after and the more valuable it or its body parts become. it is now the stroke of midnight for a number of the world’s most endangered species. however, there is still time – but only if mankind can work together to get a message to all cultures on earth that we cannot go on like this, to outlaw the immoral trade in animal products from rare species, and to urge all authorities to join in enforcement. i commend cites and i welcome the accession of the eu.
madam president, i wholeheartedly welcome the prospect of eu accession to cites, which has been overdue for decades. cites clearly constitutes an area in which the eu has the potential to produce results which far outweigh the sum of actions taken by individual member states. issues relating to cites have a crucial impact on eu policy in a great number of areas. wildlife trafficking, for example, is not only unethical because of the harm it causes to animals, but is also depriving local communities of sustainable development opportunities, robbing countries of potential tax revenues, deterring investment, providing financing to terrorist groups and enabling the spread of diseases like ebola. so i strongly believe that the eu should take a leadership role in cites in putting a stop to the trafficking of tigers and all other endangered species; and i recall in the last parliament, when i was here, the impact of the save-the-tiger conference and exhibitions which i held here. but i have to say i am somewhat disappointed that the uk has the questionable honour of harbouring the fourth-highest number of online adverts for the illegal sale of protected wildlife. the onus is now on the uk and all other eu governments to secure the budgets needed for appointing wildlife cybercrime officers to national crime units.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, mr groote says that we can only say no. well, in actual fact this decision on the fuel quality directive (fqd) is being considered under the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, as it relates to pre-lisbon regulatory procedure and this has not been aligned. this means that the objection must be justified. it is not a question of saying yes or no. the objection must be justified on one of three grounds. the proposers of the objection have chosen ground number three, that it is incompatible with the aim and content of the basic act. this suggests that the measure is inappropriate for accurate estimating and reporting of the volume, type, origin and lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions of the fuels supplied. whilst for me also it does not go quite as far as some members would like, the case for grounds under point 3 is not proven. i think there is much to recommend the commission’s proposal. the proposal requires major fuel suppliers to disclose the trade names and volumes of the crude oils they import. this is a positive step and will provide a level of transparency to the public that does not currently exist in the eu. as trade names are generally associated with crude oil types, the tracking of this information will allow for a simpler updating of the eu fossil fuel mix’s carbon intensity in the future. furthermore, with the fuel quality directive currently not included in the commission’s post-2020 energy and climate framework, the adoption of this objection will only serve to undermine the credibility of the fqd by forcing additional institutional delay on a piece of legislation set to expire in six years. i think this would be a poor way forward and that the better compromise – and mr groote is looking for a compromise from the commission – would be for parliament to move forward with the commission’s proposal in the spirit in which it has been offered, that is, as a way forward, and make sure that we get somewhere in the next several years, and do not just leave this lying in an interinstitutional wrangle.
madam president, i am delighted to say that for once ordinary people are benefiting from an international development: oil and gas prices are falling. this is happening because friendly countries like the usa and canada are opening up new fuel sources bringing down energy costs. one result is that we become less dependent upon unstable countries and unfriendly regimes. another is that fuel costs come down for hard-pressed working people living through austerity. good news for a new year but not of course if you are a green. they want to do all they can to torpedo these developments. the commission must not press for any agreement or sets of targets which will reduce or even reverse financial relief for hard-pressed taxpayers. it is after all the eu which created a currency full of structural flaws with disastrous consequences for the standard of living of millions. they must not compound their errors in the name of fighting climate change, especially as in recent years the climate has stubbornly refused to match the apocalyptic and dystopian forecasts.
madam president, it is so disappointing that the commission has felt pressured to propose a weakened response to tar sands oil in the fuel quality directive. the revised proposal ignores several recommendations of the european parliament, including a differentiation between different fuel feedstocks. the commission has also failed to recognise the results of its own impact assessments. as a result, highly polluting fuels, such as tar sands oil, will now be reported with the same emission values as conventional fuel stocks. and companies will be prevented from being able to report, even voluntarily, on real fuel emissions. rather than investing in cleaner fuels, the eu is opening up its market to dirty tar sands oil. this could mean nearly 7% of transport fuels in the eu are likely to come from canadian tar sands by 2020. mr commissioner, please develop new proposals to extend the fuel quality directive beyond 2020, taking into account the highly polluting nature of tar sands oil. if the eu is serious about leading the global fight against climate change, it must show it is serious about reducing emissions from the transport sector. we can only do that when we know what we are burning.
madam president, i think there is a vast amount of hypocrisy in this debate. i find it absolutely astonishing that 94% of the transport sector in the eu is dependent on fuel from oil, and yet the commission is making arguments here about how this measure is not legally sound and is not appropriate. for one thing, we are putting a lot more investment into research and technology for alternative fuel development, and yet we fight over progressive measures such as this. it is absolutely ridiculous. concerning recital 44 of the fuel quality directive: how can it possibly be argued that strengthening what is on the table is not part of the objective of the directive, which is about ensuring respect for minimum levels of environmental protection in relation to fuel. we really need to get our act together, and i endorse what colleagues in the socialist and democrat group – as well as many others – have said on this.
madam president, the commissioner should consider this. people outside this parliament might risk not understanding that what we are talking about here is far from being a technical issue. i think it is important to remember that thousands of people in europe die each year as a result of lorry crashes, and so it affects both the drivers and the people on the roads. for example, in 2011 the european transport safety council highlighted that 4 300 people died. now you tell us, commissioner, that what we are asking for is out of scope. that is absolutely not true. there is ample evidence that driver fatigue and abusive employment practices and exploitation, not taking safety seriously, and illegal cabotage more generally, lead to very real safety risks and will not enable us to meet our road safety targets apart from anything else. how can this possibly be out of scope? you also said there was an issue of legal certainty. again i cannot see how that can be correct; it is not as if there is no law at the moment. however the main point that we are making to you, pretty much all of us here, is that this proposal has no added value. please think again, and if nothing good comes back that is not our fault: it is your fault.
madam president, this debate perfectly illustrates almost everything wrong with the thinking of the european union. saying that 500 million people are a single market does not make them one. a single market based on freedom of movement can only work when there is something approaching a common standard of living. there is not. poor income in bulgaria and romania does not even give a monthly wage which is as good as the uk’s minimum wage. this means that the lorry drivers of the uk simply cannot compete and earn a decent day’s living. we know there is widespread corruption with licences that can be bought on the internet. this has led to some unqualified drivers on our roads. let me make a couple of points clear. i am not blaming the people of eastern europe; they just want to make a living. i am not opposing free trade; but the role of the markets is to increase prosperity, not to create a rush to the bottom. these problems are completely and utterly the result of pie-in-the-sky thinking by eu decision makers. it is the eu’s economic illiteracy which is to blame. when will they understand that the objective is prosperity? they talk about good repute of lorry drivers. it is not lorry drivers who are the problem. it is the unelected brussels commissioners and their bureaucratic staff who are dreaming up policies devoid of any understanding of how the real world works. the end result of this type of legislation punishes the hard-working lorry drivers of great britain.
mr president, hs2 is a flawed eu vanity project. it has no business case, and it will leave our country riddled with debt. it is destroying people’s lives and communities and ripping up graveyards and ancient woodlands. i do not want to see our precious environment ruined by this destructive rail line. the enormous impact it will have on many constituencies from construction work and subsequent blight will affect hundreds of acres of land. there are still unanswered questions on plans and costs, yet the project is still moving forward against any public wishes. it will only be supporting a minority at the cost of a majority. what passengers want is an affordable, reliable, comfortable and efficient rail network system that delivers from south to north and from east to west. we already have a network in place, but it is desperately in need of improvement, and some additional lines are needed in some areas. the victims of hs2 who have had their lives destroyed have not been awarded adequate compensation. this is a national disgrace.
mr president, following luxleaks i and ii, the people of europe are looking to the eu to take action against tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. so the socialists and democrats are calling for three things: first, country-by-country reporting of profit; secondly, a europe-wide approach to tackling tax havens; and thirdly, the blacklisting of companies who engage in tax fraud and the financial advisors who help them to do it. but we also need commitment from the rest of the eu: from the commission and the council. tomorrow the commission must indicate that plugging the tax gap will be at the heart of its priorities, and member states within the council must listen to the anger of their citizens at the end of this week and work together to overcome national differences and agree on strong joint measures. tackling tax fiddling could release one trillion euros across europe – money we can ill afford to lose. let us seize this opportunity to stop tax fiddling and back the citizens of europe and the smes who pay their taxes, not those transnational companies who do not.
mr president, i too rise to speak on the issue of luxleaks, like my colleague ms dodds, and how we should respond to it as a parliament. i think it would be wrong if we were to focus exclusively on luxembourg. luxembourg may well be the worst case but it is far from being the only one. we must focus on the wider issue of how it is that we have created, in europe, a system which gives effectively an incentive to every member state to become its neighbour’s tax haven, and that makes it so easy for multinational companies to evade taxes by shifting profits from one country to another. the total amount lost to national exchequers by tax evasion and tax avoidance is greater than all the public deficits of national governments in europe added together. that is the issue we must address – the systemic changes that are needed to put an end to that situation.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, i wholly expected mr dombrovskisʼ speech to present a glorifying story of how the six-pack and the two-pack have helped lift europe out of depression and mr dombrovskis, once again you did not fail to deliver. after all it is christmas – members of this house – and it is christmas when parents tell all their children lots of fairy tales about what good there is in the world when we know there is bad outside, and in this chamber once again you told us lots of fairy tales. because, as you have heard from members around this house, the main point of the six-pack is control. control of government budgets; control of the decision-makers on spending; control of the peoples of europe and their democratic, elected governments. debt up, stability down, no growth, only poverty throughout europe, and at christmas that control, and the story of christmas, should show you why europe is going wrong. because millions of europeans will be celebrating christmas by telling their children that father christmas will be delivering presents for them – and at christmas, if the eu had control of father christmas, the story would be totally different. first of all father christmas would not be allowed to drive more than 4.5 hours without having a 45-minute break under eu directives. it may well be that even rudolph would have to be fitted with a tacograph; certainly under eu directives he would have to have a stamp of the eu flag on the backside. under various animal directives it would be certain that he could not even use the reindeer and if there was not a directive, there would be calls from the members of this chamber for an intergroup to be set up on the protection and prevention of abuse of santa’s reindeers. eu inspectors would ask whether father christmas had indeed complied with all the regulations. just as the eu would ruin santa claus, you have ruined the story of christmas for millions of europeans, their families and their children. (applause)
madam president, no, the european adjustment has not worked. six years have passed since the beginning of the crisis, and the european union is now in contrast to the other international blocs. the european economy is stagnant, deflationary in some areas, there are 25 million unemployed, there is an unbearable public debt and internal imbalances are enormous. politically, we are on the brink of breaking up. the anti-crisis engine envisaged in the single currency was monetary policy, but it has been exhausted. interest rates are near zero, and yet the economy is not responding. and in this scary picture, the european commission, when it thinks about the economy for 2015, proposes a neutral fiscal policy, not expansionary, just slows down austerity. in the face of this, i ask: in an area where there is no longer any exchange rate policy, where monetary policy has been neutralized by the crisis, what more would have to happen for the commission to propose an anti-cyclical fiscal policy? the investment plan of jean-claude juncker is clearly welcome, but unfortunately there is no artificial stimulus to compensate for the lack of economic activity. at the moment, looking at the six-pack, we see that what is provided for in the law is that the adjustment process can be derailed in three circumstances: if there is a severe economic slowdown, if there is an external shock that is not dependent on the will of the member states, and if structural reforms are implemented to strengthen competitiveness. but real structural reforms, not short-term cuts. and i ask you: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already done so. no, i'm not going. all adjustments to the public accounts settlement schedule have been submitted with a political concession. it is not a political concession, it is in the text of the law, and that is what we have to concentrate on, and that is what we have to change the agenda on. because without an economy and without jobs, there is no balanced public accounts. and this is a truth which has been clear from the start, which has been followed in other economic blocs and which europe refuses to accept, in favour of an ideology which has already proved that it does not work. please change the schedule.
blue-card question.– would you agree with me that when you think of a six-pack, you think of someone like cristiano ronaldo? it is a very athletic thing. but when i think of the eu, it is not really a six-pack. instead i look at this tired, old, flabby, slow, useless thing which is very much like what i might see when i get up in the morning. it is certainly not ronaldo – nowhere near it. would you agree that is a fair assessment of the eu and its physique?
answer is "blue cardboard". mr. ropé, you assume that the problem is already solved. when, unfortunately, a country has lived beyond its means for many years and has been forced to ask for help from its partners, the first thing it must do is put its situation and its public finances in order, with the help of its partners. then, only once wealth can be created again, it becomes possible, at that point, to redistribute purchasing power.
blue-card question.– do you not agree with me that the european nations outside the euro are doing relatively well, whereas those within the euro are not? the euro is a political currency created by the commission for its own political ends, and until the euro is removed and ditched, there is no chance of the people of southern europe ever recovering. i recommend to the whole house that the commission admit its mistake with the euro and ditch the currency. the lady over there has said it before: it is absolutely obvious that this is the problem.
madam president, every debate on economic governance i attend makes me more grateful that the united kingdom is not part of the euro. in my view it is profoundly undemocratic for the commission to tell member states what they should tax and what they should spend. but that is the consequence of entering into a single currency. and it is increasingly clear that the euro single currency is not working for the very diverse economies within its borders. as a result, millions of young people across the eu are not working either. youth unemployment is 40 % in italy, 55 % in spain, 58 % in greece. that is a tragedy for millions of families. the stability and growth pact is right to control spending and borrowing in euro area countries, but it needs to be accompanied by an appropriate monetary policy and this is impossible for the ecb to achieve. whatever the commission might say about economic governance it does not acknowledge the fundamental flaw that exists in the construction of the euro. a single interest rate is never going to be appropriate for all members of the euro area. and i would say to mr dombrovskis, if you want the euro area to flourish you and the commission are going to have to bring up the subject of fiscal transfers, because you cannot have a situation where you fix the interest rate, you fix the rate of exchange for all the euro area members, and you then tell governments in greece and italy what they can spend and tax, without transferring money from rich euro area members to poorer ones – and that is something you are too afraid to address. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i think that monetary union between a small number of member states who had converged economies – for example germany, the netherlands, austria and finland – could have been a success. the problem is that the euro was set up as a political project instead of as an economic project. if it is going to work, then you either have to let those states that cannot keep up with the deutschmark, such as cyprus and greece, go in an organised manner, or rich countries are going to have to pay them very large sums of money, as happens in the united states. it is one or the other. mr dombrovskis does not wish to discuss either of those two solutions.
madam president, modifying the terms of economic coordination across europe is just another attempt to save the currency that does not work. the structural reform that we hear so much about often just means pay cuts and less stable employment. it will not save the currency that does not work, because greece can never be germany and italy is not the netherlands. emperor nero famously fiddled while rome burned. rome is not burning today, and that is a tribute to the stoicism of the italian people, but the currency that does not work is putting the social fabric across southern europe under very great strain – not only in italy. the talent of the people is the biggest resource that we have, and therefore unemployment is the biggest waste. yet the currency that does not work leads to people who have no work. many across this chamber who belong to groups and institutions that still pay lip service to the currency that does not work know, in their heart of hearts, that i am speaking the truth. it is time for you to speak up, for you to put the interests of the people before the grand and flawed ideology of ever-closer european integration. those of you who are economically literate and knowledgeable know these things. you have been too quiet for too long, and now is the time for you to show some courage. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i think you are speaking the truth there. it is one or the other. but i would point out to you that the social solidarity levels needed across the nation states do not exist. i remember german reunification; west german people moaned a bit about the cost of reunifying, but, because they were reunifying with fellow germans, they bore that cost and were happy to do so. the germans will not pay indefinitely for the greek people or other people in southern europe. if the social solidarity were there, that would be the right answer, but it rests with nation states across our great continent.
mr president, i echo the call from my colleagues that we urgently need to review the economic governance rules in the eu. the commission communication is a small step but we need to go further. as an ultimate proof of failing austerity policies, the economic governance framework needs profound change, and as the european parliament we have the legislative key. the facts are: 25 million unemployed people, economic stagnation, deflation, excessive debt, high deficits, democratic deficit. these rules are hurting instead of working. laudable as it is to keep the deficit under 3%, we need to recognise the cost too. therefore, i believe the economic governance framework needs to be broader and take into account social elements. the key questions are: what are the member states doing to tackle poverty, tax fraud and youth unemployment? how do they increase education opportunities? these criteria need to get the same weight in the analysis as the level of public deficit and debt. given the interconnection of all our economies, i do recognise the need for effective management of our economies and, yes, smart investments need to be treated in a flexible way. the reform of the six-pack and the two-pack will be an important test to show that the eu takes european citizens seriously, and an opportunity to make a european project people can believe in. i would urge vice-president dombrovskis to make sure that the commission does not just act as accountants but that when they look at the balance sheets ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to address the house. i am sure you are aware that a terrible tragedy has taken place in peshawar, pakistan. over 500 people are in a state of siege, 124 children have died and 200 are injured. this is a fight against extremists. that brave nation is involved in protecting not only itself but also us all, and we should send a message of sympathy to that nation and we should be partners in the fight against extremists, the taliban, etc. this is a tragedy of a profound nature and we should all get together and send a message, and help that nation in its fight against these extremists.
in writing. – i voted in favour of emily o’reilly for re-election to the role of european ombudsman. i was pleased to be one of the many meps to sign her nomination. it is evident by the fact that ms o’reilly was unopposed for this position that, in her relatively short period in the job, she has earned the good will and esteem of those of every political persuasion. as ireland’s ombudsman from 2003 and in the office of european ombudsman since 2013 emily o’reilly has won the confidence of ordinary citizens as someone who is ‘on their side’. she has a big challenge ahead of her. the european institutions have lost the confidence of citizens and communities across many member states. in many cases the manner in which the council and commission carry out their roles in secrecy, without transparency and with minimal public consultation, exacerbates this loss of confidence. the european ombudsman has the responsibility to challenge these cultures within the european institutions. i am extremely hopeful that emily o’reilly will be up to that job.
in writing. ‒ this vote was taken by secret ballot. in the interests of transparency, i believe that my constituents have a right to know how i voted and therefore i wish to clarify that my vote was against.
in writing. ‒ i am delighted to vote today on the candidacy of emily o’reilly for the role of ombudsman, as i was equally delighted to sign her nomination papers for this position. the european ombudsman plays an important part in ensuring that eu institutions adhere to the principle of good administration and respect eu citizens’ rights under the treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights. the ombudsman is independent, she is impartial and it is only right that she is. her role is to ensure that european institutions abide by the principles of good administration and respect for eu citizens’ rights as guaranteed by the treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights. ms o’reilly has done an outstanding job as ombudsman after taking over the position in 2013 following the retirement of nikiforos diamandouros and i am delighted to see her remain in place.
in writing. ‒ i was delighted to vote for the reappointment of the ombudsman. i very much welcome the work she has done to bring transparency to the ttip discussions.
in writing. i supported the re-election of the european ombudsman, mrs emily o'reilly of ireland. i am convinced that she has managed her current five-year term and has further developed the office of the european ombudsman into an effective institution that can help citizens of all member states in their disputes with european authorities over their maladministration.
in writing. ‒ this vote was taken by secret ballot. i believe that my constituents have a right to know how i voted on this issue, and therefore i wish to confirm for the record that my vote was against the ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ today i elected emily o’reilly european ombudsman for the 2014-2019 parliamentary term. the responsibilities of the european ombudsman are considerable. it is by means of the european ombudsman that european citizens are able to gain redress when an instance of maladministration occurs in an institution, a body, an office or an agency of the european union. each year the ombudsman submits a report to parliament on the outcome of her enquiries
in writing. ‒ this motion related to a technical update of a council directive from 1993. i am advised that the matter concerned would be better determined individually by the member states.
in writing. – this is a technical update of a council directive from 1993, which i oppose.
in writing. ‒ mr president, although this vote appears merely technical, it does provide an opportunity to reflect on the eu allergens legislation which came into effect only last week – and which stands to place constraints on food and catering operators across the member states. the new provision requires caterers to publicly display whether the food being served contains any of a range of approximately 13 allergens. this goes far beyond communication of commonly accepted allergens, including nuts and gluten – which is vital toward protecting people in our communities. this regulation will place an added layer of compliance checks for workers, and although exemptions are in place for voluntary, non-formal caterers, there exists a level of uncertainty on the scope and burdens of the new law. i would strongly urge the european commission to fill this void with effective information.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this directive. although it is presented as the eu repealing an old directive, the eu commission is actually substituting the committee on food with the european food safety authority, giving the european commission more power, promoting eu regulations further in this field. this is the job of sovereign nations, not the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the repeal of this obsolete text.
in writing. ‒ i agree to repeal this regulation. the scientific tasks entrusted to the scientific committee on food were taken over years ago by the european food safety agency making the regulation obsolete.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal which fits in to the unionʼs commitment to achieving a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework for businesses, workers and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the commission has already proposed scrapping council directive 93/5/eec on the running of the scientific committee for food, as it is now obsolete. the duties of the committee have already been taken over by the scientific committee and panels of the european food safety authority (efsa); therefore the directive is redundant and should be repealed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 93/5/eec of 25 february 1993 on assistance to the commission and cooperation by the member states in the scientific examination of questions relating to food. the tasks of the scientific committee on food referred to in directive 93/5/eec have been transferred to the european food safety authority (efsa), and those tasks are currently provided for by regulation (ec) no 178/2002. efsa has also become the competent body to promote scientific cooperation with the member states and relevant national bodies operating in the fields falling within efsa’s mission. directive 93/5/eec had therefore become obsolete and has now been repealed.
madam president, i support the accession of the eu to the cites convention. currently, all 28 member states are already signed up, so one might wonder what the eu accession adds. what value do we get out of being signed up altogether, rather than separately? i have never attended a cites meeting, but i understand that the eu member states do not always speak with one voice; that they sometimes take quite different positions despite the fact that they are all signed up to the same convention. this will give us the opportunity to negotiate the eu position first, and we would be in the position then to fight very much at the weight we are, that is, representing all the citizens of europe in this very important issue. the trade in exotic species is estimated to be the third biggest illegal trade, following those in drugs and humans, and it is therefore vitally important that the eu stand together to fight.
madam president, i can join my colleagues in welcoming our accession to this convention for exactly the same reasons, but i have one additional reason. it is a species in my own country which is endangered. it is called pro-european conservatives. they have many predators in their own party and i think they should be listed as an endangered species and afforded particular protection from their aggressors within their own political party.
madam president, trade is not necessarily the enemy of conservation. providing people with an incentive to treat endangered species as a renewable resource can often be a strong ally of the endangered species. i have mentioned in this chamber before the contrasting stories of what has happened to elephants in kenya, which banned the hunting of all elephants and then saw a calamitous decline in numbers, as against zimbabwe, which declared them to be the property of whoever’s land they were on and has seen an explosion in numbers because people were effectively encouraged to farm the elephants or to treat them as a valuable resource. this is not really about cites. all 28 member states are individually signed up to that. this is about the european union progressively taking on the attributes and trappings of statehood, including what it regards as the necessary right to speak on behalf of its member states in international forums. surely this is something that each of the member countries can decide for itself, through its own democratic mechanisms and procedures.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the ayuso report on the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites). this vote was not about cites itself. we support the objectives of the cites convention. this vote was about enhancing the status of the european commission within the cites structure which we are not prepared to support. we are also against the related budgetary implications.
in writing. ‒ this report called for the spending of taxpayers’ money on the promotion of the european commission and its policies. some of the content of this resolution may well be laudable and my vote should not be taken to construe that i oppose positive steps in terms of protecting endangered species. i believe that nation states should co-operate in these matters.
in writing. – this promotes the european commission and its policies, which i oppose. furthermore, it allows for further funding, which is an extra burden on the british taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as the recommendation is that the eu takes partial powers from member states, and will increase eu regulation giving overall more power to the commission. the eu is currently an ‘observer’ and wishes the parliament to enable it to become a full member – which is more erosion of nation states’ sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora has been an important international tool for approaching four decades. both the eu and its individual member states play a role in implementing cites, and i accordingly voted in favour of the eu acceding to the convention in its own right.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the ayuso report on the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites). this vote was not about cites itself. we support the objectives of the cites convention. this vote was about enhancing the status of the european commission within the cites structure which we are not prepared to support. we are also against the related budgetary implication.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome accession, as it will elevate the eu from a simple observer to a full member of the convention. it will also increase the transparency of the eu’s legal status in cites vis-à-vis third parties and help ensure that the eu is fully able to pursue its objectives under its environmental policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. the accession of the european union to cites will enable the eu to be adequately represented at cites meetings and to play a full role in the work of the convention, in line with the treaties and established practices for external representation. it will enable the commission, on behalf of the european union, to lead negotiations and to be a catalyst in achieving a balanced compromise between the 28 member states’ positions. when becoming a party to cites, the european union will be granted formal responsibilities and become accountable to other parties for the implementation and enforcement of the convention.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this vote is urgently needed and is a long-overdue step that elevates the eu from a simple observer to a full member of the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites). the decision will serve to increase the transparency of the eu’s legal status in the cites vis-à-vis third parties and will help to ensure that the european union is fully able to pursue its objectives under its environmental policy.
in writing. ‒ this vote should not be taken to imply in any way that i am in favour of the trade in endangered species. nevertheless, i voted against this report because member states should be able to introduce tougher measures for themselves, and they themselves should be the signatories to cites not the european union.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the ayuso report on the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites). this vote was not about cites itself. we support the objectives of the cites convention. this vote was about enhancing the status of the european commission within the cites structure which we are not prepared to support. we are also against the related budgetary implication.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). i believe that the accession of the european union to cites is a logical and necessary step to ensure that the european union is fully able to pursue its objectives under its environmental policy. cites is a major international instrument aimed at protecting endangered species of fauna and flora through controls on international trade in specimens of those species. accession of the european union to cites will enable the eu to be adequately represented at cites meetings and to play a full role in the work of the convention, in line with the treaties and established practices for external representation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as its purpose is to provide for international cooperation in order to protect species from overexploitation through international trade. this report is part of an on-going legislative procedure aiming at recasting the regulation whereby the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is implemented by the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report favours a partnership in the galileo programme, a programme which comes at a cost of eur 9.8 billion to the european union.
in writing. – i voted against this proposal as it favours a partnership on the galileo programme with a cost to the eu of eur 9.8 billion.
in writing. ‒ galileo is a massive white elephant, part of the eu’s ambition to create a united states of europe, costing the hard pressed tax payers of europe a staggering eur 9.8 billion. how will the eu recoup these costs? by charging each driver in europe a tax per mile they drive. all sensible people should be against this.
in writing. ‒ the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and morocco will greatly add to the development of scientific progress and the exchange of knowledge and ideas between the two parties. morocco has know-how in space technology and applications which will add to eu know-how in this field and will allow morocco to develop its use of satellite radio-navigation on its territory and in the surrounding region. this agreement also provides morocco with the means to contribute to gnss-related research in the context of the eu research and innovation programmes and it is great to see the eu cooperating with other countries to spread r&d innovations across the globe.
in writing. ‒ morocco is already entitled to association to the new framework programme for research and innovation and has concluded an agreement on scientific and technical cooperation with the eu. this provides morocco with a good potential to contribute to gnss-related research in the context of the eu research and innovation programmes.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and its member states and the kingdom of morocco.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is as a result of a request for consent submitted by the council and is necessary to conclude the agreement on behalf of the european union to enable the participation of the kingdom of morocco in the galileo programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and its member states and the kingdom of morocco. this agreement allows for closer cooperation with morocco in the area of satellite navigation. moroccan and european firms have had industrial cooperation links in the space sector for several years, providing a solid foundation on which to build and extend cooperation in this field which is of great importance to both parties.
in writing. ‒ i note that the european union has spent eur 45 million of taxpayers’ money (c. eur 26.5 million to ukraine) for the sponsorship of co-operation with research. at a time when europe is supposed to be tightening its belt, and at a time where the situation in the ukraine is unstable, i wonder whether this decision is wise?
in writing. – i voted against this proposal because the eu has spent eur 45 million sponsoring co-operation in research with eastern european countries, (including approximately eur 26.5 million with ukraine).
in writing. ‒ the eu has already spent eur 45 million to sponsor co-operation in research with eastern european countries – eur 26.5 million to the ukraine, which is not even a member of the eu! it is wrong to give british taxpayers’ money to non-member states, when we already give gbp 21 million a day in foreign aid.
in writing. ‒ the renewal of the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and ukraine will benefit the scientific communities, industry and citizens right across europe. the previous agreement allowed for both parties to improve and intensify their cooperation in science and technology. this renewed agreement will allow for further exchanges of specific knowledge and for increased market access opportunities and i am happy to support this cause.
in writing. ‒ i support the renewal of this agreement, which is mutually beneficial to the scientific communities of the eu and ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i agree with renewing the agreement, as it will improve cooperation between both parties in science and technology and allow further exchange of knowledge and a transfer of know-how for the benefit of scientific communities, industry and the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement. the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocal access to programmes and activities of the other party, in connection with the subject of the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property and equitable sharing of ipr and effective exploitation of results. the renewal of this agreement will allow for increased scientific knowledge leading to market access opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the renewal of the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and ukraine for five years would be in the interests of both parties so as to maintain continuity in the scientific and technological relations.
in writing. ‒ today i welcomed the renewal of the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and ukraine. the material content of the renewed agreement will be identical to that of the current agreement, which expired on 7 november 2014. the present initiative will allow both parties to improve and intensify their cooperation in science and technology in areas of common interest and will allow further exchange of specific knowledge and a transfer of know-how to the benefit of the scientific communities, industry and the citizens.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical matter concerning croatia; therefore i abstained on it.
in writing. – i abstained on this issue, which tidies up a technicality about croatia, which is now an eu member. its relationship with the eea has accordingly changed.
in writing. ‒ croatia’s participation in the european economic area marks a final and logical stage in their full participation in the eu. croatia's path to independence was troubled, but the country has emerged as a stable and democratic entity. as an independent member of the eu and a fully participating part of the eea, croatia will have a full voice in all the key decision-making institutions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it is a technical adjustment to update the eea following the accession of croatia to the eu, and allows croatia to benefit from the single market with iceland, lichtenstein and norway.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal as i take the view that the participation of croatia in the european economic area is a natural consequence of its eu accession. the delay is due to the fact that, more than a year after the accession, the necessary legal steps have only just been undertaken by the commission and the council to enable this participation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe that the agreement needs to be updated to include croatia since its accession to the eu in 2013.
in writing. ‒ this matter is a technicality which clarifies the position of croatia now that, as a full member of the european union, its relationship with the european economic area has changed. as a ukip mep, i do not consider it to be for me to tell the european union how it must act in this regard and therefore i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i consented to the conclusion of an agreement on the participation of the republic of croatia in the european economic area, and of three related agreements. the eea agreement brings together the eu member states and the three members of the european free trade association – iceland, liechtenstein and norway – in a single market. the eea agreement provides for the inclusion of eu legislation covering the four freedoms — the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital — throughout all the eea states. i believe that the participation of croatia in the european economic area is a natural consequence of its eu accession.
in writing. ‒ this report proposed special treatment for the french overseas territories.
in writing. – i voted against this proposal which seeks special treatment for french overseas territories and urges a longer time frame for the french request.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as this is asking for the french to have longer to sort out their tax arrangements in their overseas territories, in effect asking for special treatment. if the tax is due, then the frenchggovernment should pay.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal, as it will help to support competitiveness, and social and economic development of the producers in the french outermost regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal which i consider is justifiable as it aims at continuing to stimulate economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions, while not undermining the coherence of the internal market and of the eu legal order.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this report will support the commission proposal regarding the application of exemptions and reductions to ‘dock duties’ tax for a number of products produced in the french outermost regions, in order to offset some disadvantages affecting he concerned regions. in addition, it will help to support their competitiveness and social and economic development.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in support of a council decision concerning the dock dues in the french outermost regions. council decision 2004/162/ec of 10 february 2004 authorised france, until 1 july 2014, to apply exemptions or reductions to the ‘dock dues’ tax for a number of products produced in the french outermost regions, in order to offset the handicaps affecting the concerned outermost regions and to support their competitiveness and social and economic development. france had requested that a system of differentiated taxation similar to the above-mentioned system be maintained until 31 december 2020. the new proposal submitted is to establish a new legal framework for the dock dues from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2020, by determining the products to which tax exemptions and reductions may be applied. this measure intends to continue stimulating economic activity and competitiveness in the outermost regions.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of italy, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ vote against. it is not the role of the eu to compensate for redundancies within individual member states. this should be a matter for national government to decide.
in writing. – i voted against the eu contributing 60% of an adjustment fund payout in the sum of nearly eur 1.9 million to former whirlpool employees, suppliers and producers in italy. i believe that this cost should have been met by the italian government, and not, in effect, subsidised by the british taxpayer, through their contributions to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this application for the mobilisation of th3 european adjustment fund. as i have stated many times before, i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money. there is no evidence that it offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against using british taxpayers’ money to subsidise the italian government. redundancies in whirlpool europe, and 5 suppliers, have effected 608 people, and the italian government wants the eu to pay eur 1,890,000 towards retraining etc. this should be the expense of whirlpool and the italian government.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this support under the european globalisation adjustment fund, noting that the italian authorities argue that the global financial and economic crisis has had a profound effect on the consumption choices of italian households which have reconsidered their buying decisions, in particular those related to buying durable goods, including domestic appliances.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has had a profound effect on the consumption choices of italian households, particularly those related to buying durable goods. i voted in favour of the application as i believe that it will help to address the decline in durable goods.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of italy, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ thanks to todayʼs vote italy was granted aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant at whirlpool europe s.r.l. whirlpool europe s.r.l operates in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 27 (manufacturing of electrical equipment). the italian authorities argue that in 2009, as a consequence of the global financial and economic crisis, there was a significant downturn in the economy at eu-28 level, as well as in the italian economy. this recession situation has had a profound effect on the consumption choices of italian households which had reconsidered their buying decisions, in particular those related to buying durable goods. the eur 1 890 000 in aid will pay for personalised services consisting of advice and guidance, training and a job search allowance for the 608 redundant workers, provided by a team of expert consultants. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ the ecr group fully supports measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, we do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies, nor do we believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of poland, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. – i voted against the eu contributing 50% of an adjustment fund payout in the sum of nearly eur 1.26 million to former fiat employees, suppliers and producers in poland. i believe that this cost should have been met by the polish government, and not, in effect, subsidised by the british taxpayer, through their contributions to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted against using british taxpayers’ money to subsidise the polish government. redundancies in fiat have affected 777 people, and the polish government wants the eu to pay eur 1 259 610 towards retraining etc. this should be the expense of fiat and the polish government.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) application. the applicant shows the correlation between the declining car production and employment levels in fiat auto poland. the plant in tychy hired 6 422 workers in 2009 in order to produce 606 000 cars, while in 2012 production amounted to 361 000 units with 4 882 workers. over the 2009-2013 period, while production decreased by 56 %, employment dropped by only 46 %. in fiat auto poland the decrease in employment has therefore been less acute than the decrease in production. this was achieved by the factory operating on a two-shift basis instead of the regular practice of three shifts. the polish authorities also provide eurostat data on the employment situation in the automotive sector, where a continuous fall isdemonstrated. employment in the automotive industry in eu-27 at the end of 2009.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the application as it will address the 829 redundancies in the production plant of fiat tychy, and 250 from 21 suppliers and downstream producers, which have been impacted by the european automotive industry’s falling share of the global market.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of poland, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for application egf/2013/006. fiat auto poland has been granted egf aid to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in the production plant at tychy of fiat auto poland s.a. located in the region of slaskie, poland, due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the polish authorities argue that the impact of globalisation has been worsened by the effect of the financial crisis which has reduced the sales of new passenger cars in the eu to the lowest level since records began. the application concerns 829 redundancies in the production plant of fiat tychy and 250 from 21 suppliers and downstream producers during the reference period from 21 january 2013 to 21 may 2013. the eur 1 259 610 of egf aid will pay for the package of personalised services to support the reintegration of 777 redundant workers into employment. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support
in writing. ‒ the ecr group fully supports measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, we do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies nor do we believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of greece, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. – i voted against the eu contributing 60% of an adjustment fund payout in the sum of eur 6.44 million to former odyssefs fokas employees, suppliers and producers in greece. this cost should have been met by the greek government, and not, in effect, subsidised by the british taxpayer, through their contributions the eu. this is, effectively, a further bailout payment.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted against using british taxpayers’ money to subsidise the greek government. redundancies in odyssefs fokas have affected 600 people, and the greek government wants the eu to pay eur 6,444,000 towards retraining etc. this should be the expense of odyssefs fokas and the greek government.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this support under the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) given that these redundancies will further aggravate the unemployment situation in a country where, during the period 2008-2013, the number of unemployed people increased four-fold and which presents the highest unemployment rate among member states and the fifth highest worldwide. there is especially concern about the regions of attica and central macedonia, where 90 % of the redundancies are concentrated and which already have unemployment rates above the national average of 27.5 %.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the application as i believe that it will tackle concerns related to beneficiaries and neets effected by the economic crisis in greece.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of greece, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed today’s vote on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of greece to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in odyssefs fokas s.a. operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 47 (‘retail trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles’). the greek authorities argue that the greek economy is for the sixth consecutive year (2008-2013) in deep recession. the events giving rise to the redundancies were mainly the decrease of available household income – due to the increase in the tax burden, decreasing salaries and rising unemployment – resulting in a huge drop of purchasing power and the drastic reduction of loans to enterprises and individuals due to the lack of cash in the greek banks. a total amount of eur 6 444 000 from the egf will support the package of personalised services to 600 workers made redundant and 500 neets. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ the ecr group fully supports measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, we do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies nor do we believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of france, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project. in this case, i note additionally the high amount requested for the project and that various concerns have been raised on this matter within the budg committee.
in writing. ‒ vote against. whilst i sympathise with the plight of the workers who are losing their jobs, it is not the role of the eu to compensate. this is the role of national government. my voters in the uk sent me here to vote against this kind of thing, particularly as the money is destined to pay for redundancy only, not for training to get people back to work.
in writing. – i voted against the eu contributing 50% of an adjustment fund payout in the sum of nearly eur 25.94 million to former state-owned air france employees in france. i believe that this cost should have been met by the french government, and not, in effect, subsidised by the british taxpayer, through their contributions to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against using british taxpayers’ money to subsidise the french government. redundancies in air france have affected 3 886 people, and the french government wants the eu to pay eur 25 937 813 towards redundancies. we are here to vote against this kind of outrage. this should be the expense of air france and the french government.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal and welcome the fact that the resolution ʽopposes the use of the egf as a way to funding redundancies; advocates that this fund should be used to assist the reintegration of workers into the labour marketʼ.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe that the application will help to address the below average growth rate in the european air transport sector as well as aid the rapid growth of the middle east’s air transport sector.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of france, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project. in addition, the amounts concerned on this occasion were much higher than usual and would not indeed be permitted under the rules pertaining to closures after 31 december 2013.
in writing. ‒ today i welcomed the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of france to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant. according to data referred to by the french authorities, international air transport has undergone serious economic disruption, in particular a decline of the eu’s market share. over the period 2008-2012, global traffic increased by 4.6% per year, as part of a trend of long-term growth observed since 1970. however the air traffic between europe and the rest of the world is growing at a slower pace (2.4%) which has led to a decrease of the eu-27’s market share in air transport. the coordinated package of personalised services, to be co-funded with the eur 25 937 813 in egf aid, includes training and guidance measures for the reintegration of 3 886 redundant workers into employment. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ the ecr group fully supports measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, we do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies nor do we believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this vote was taken by secret ballot. in the interests of transparency, i believe that my constituents have a right to know how i voted and therefore i wish to clarify that my vote was against.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution believing that all the candidates are suitably qualified for the postion they are to fill.
in writing. ‒ this vote was taken by secret ballot. i believe that my constituents have a right to know how i voted on this issue, and therefore i wish to confirm for the record that my vote was against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted to approve the commission’s proposal for the appointment of the chair, vice-chair and members of the board of the single resolution board. parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs evaluated the credentials of the proposed candidates for the functions of chair, vice-chair and members of the board. all six proposed candidates made an opening statement at a hearing organised by committee on economic and monetary affairs and then responded to questions from the members of the committee
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, thank you for opening this session with a statement on the truly shocking news from pakistan. as parents we take our children to school to learn and trust them to be safe, and our hearts go out to those families who have lost children today. we do face unprecedented challenges. our economies are under pressure, our resources are under pressure, security is under pressure and europe needs to change. the commissioners have talked about change, we need to see them deliver. we must build our economic strength. yes, we share wider objectives – higher living standards, the environment, opportunity, equality – but we need strong economies to deliver this. so the economy must come first. and every eu initiative should face that simple test: will it make it easier or harder for businesses to thrive? too often in the past we have seen the eu churn out new laws without thinking through the impact on growth, on small businesses, on innovation. this must stop and our decisions should be based on evidence. mr juncker promised our group he would keep a chief scientific adviser. please keep that promise, mr juncker. instead of focusing on yet more new laws, we should also make sure the existing ones work, and if they do not, then let us change them. and the last commission promised to reduce burdens. will you keep that promise, will you set a target for cutting red tape and then stick to it? we need to focus on growth, the single market in energy and services, and new public procurement rules should reduce costs and help growth. let us deliver those changes. in 2015 we want to look forward to 2050 and not back to the 1950s. we need vibrant digital markets, conditions that let industries succeed and increase external trade too. and if we do not conclude that deep trade agreement with the us, then yes, we will be left behind. we need to unlock investment, especially for small companies and for infrastructure, investment built on private funds, on equity and not just public debt, because the crisis in public debt is not over. budgetary stability is still key as are structural reforms, but this does not mean centralising social and employment policies, because overruling national governments would risk even deeper resentments. and, commissioners, we cannot have one set of rules for public spending at home and another set here in strasbourg and brussels. you must cut costs and waste from the eu budget and put the eu’s own finances in order. it is because public services are so stretched that the people of europe have concerns over immigration. these must be addressed. yes, we must cooperate with third countries and help tackle the causes of migration. but serious actions must also be taken to stop abuses of the migration system, both within and outside the eu. our single market is meant to help businesses and consumers trade easily across 28 countries, not a bureaucratic one-size-fits-all monolith stifling creativity and reducing competition, not red tape, not regulation. that is our vision and we will work with those who share it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– sharing the benefits of growth is key, but one needs to have growth in order to share it. the economy must come first in order to deliver equality, opportunity and higher living standards. that is why we support calls for a leaner and more focused approach that respects subsidiarity at the same time.
blue-card question. – mr lamberts, you suggested at the beginning of your speech that mr timmermans is facing the last—chance saloon for europe to promote support for the many rather than the few. is it your contention, therefore, that the european union is only looking after the few now?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i would like to make the following remarks to mr juncker. you are here with your commission presenting your new work plan but i can see that you have been busy with the pr consultants. you have been busy spending a pretty penny or two. you have been trying to rebrand the european commission and you have come up with a slogan: ‘a new start for europe’. you could not invent it, could you? we do it every five years. we should get our money back. i even noticed on the berlaymont building last week a great big banner with your face on it and the rest of the commission team – a new start for europe under team juncker. well i do not know about ‘new’. this commission has got four former prime ministers in it, it has got 19 former government ministers in it, it has got seven former commissioners in it. i do not know about some bright new fresh start for europe. it looks a bit more like the knacker’s yard for failed domestic politicians. and at the top of it, as president, we have got you. now i do not want anybody here to think that i am questioning mr juncker’s competence. i am not. you are certainly competent. you are a good operator and there are 240 multinationals who all managed to avoid hundreds of millions of euro of corporation tax by paying 1% to 2% tax in luxembourg during your term there as prime minister that would testify that you are certainly a more competent operator than the man that went before you. but please do not give us ‘new’. you were prime minister of luxembourg for 19 years and you headed up the eurogroup. ʽnewʼ you are not. you and this commission, frankly, are as stale and musty as a corked bottle of wine. we are being encouraged by your sidekick, mr timmermans, who, by the way, today talked about the ʽcircular economyʼ. sir, i have not got a clue what you are talking about but it sounds absolutely lovely. you told us today that you are going to adopt a minimalist approach to legislation. again, rather like mr juncker, you are rather brighter, cleverer and sharper than those who have gone before you. we are not going to get from you any more proposed bans on olive oil being poured into dishes that we dip our bread into in restaurants and i suspect that you will not be updating the curvature of cucumber regulations that came in a few years ago. minimalism is one thing, but what it fails to address is the fact that the very last time we attempted to address within the european union how big the body of law that had already been imposed on our businesses was – that was in 2005 – it was 170 000 pages of active legislation. it is probably now a quarter of a million or perhaps even more than that. i would suggest to mr timmermans that what we do not need is minimalism. if europe is to become competitive and to trade globally and competitively, what it needs is the axe. you have actually got to start getting rid of excessive regulation, particularly on the small and medium-sized enterprises, which in any free market economy could not be expected to maintain the same standards for everybody and everything as the giant multinationals. but there are two areas where minimalism will not work. one is in negotiating with the united kingdom about immigration. mr juncker, you have made it clear that it is non-negotiable. the free movement of peoples is non-negotiable; the british want wholesale change. secondly, there is greece’s membership of the euro when it is clear for all to see that she, and everybody else, would be better off without it. i suggest that, whatever your work programme is, the next five years will actually be dominated by greece and the euro and britain’s membership of the european union. i suspect that you will spent most of your time dealing with those issues. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i was not really sure what the question was but it is awfully good of the president to give me more speaking time. as far as luxembourg norms are concerned, i made it clear that i am not especially critical of mr juncker. i actually think tax competition and different countries doing things their own way in a diverse europe is a good and healthy thing. by the way, a correction if i may: you are quite right – my flag is not on my desk but it has never hitherto been an english flag, it has been the union jack which is the british flag.
mr president, at the last strasbourg session, you ruled in favour of a group which was displaying flags, displaying signs which claimed opponents were racist, homophobic and all kinds of things, and in the same breath, you criticised the flags, the national flags, that were on our desks. now, i have had a look at the rules since then, and annex 15 to the rules of procedure of the european parliament states that visual displays will be tolerated provided they are not offensive or defamatory. now i think that ‘racist’ and ‘homophobe’ are allegations which are defamatory. although i expect it sometimes of the hard-left green group, perhaps others in this group do not. mr president, could you tell us please: is the british flag in your opinion offensive or defamatory? what was the reason for your attacking it? (applause)
mr president, as you well know, my colleagues in the italian five star movement put up signs which were not offensive or defamatory. my point to you is that the rules of procedure must be applied equally to all, impartially, and that all groups should be afforded the same respect and impartiality by the chair. that is simply what i am asking for. do you believe that these proceedings should be chaired in an impartial and neutral way? if offensive slogans over that side are not allowed but then, when we raise it, you complain about non-offensive slogans on our side of the house, it comes across to us as being anything other than impartial.
blue-card question.– thank you for taking this blue card question, ms rodrigues, and thank you, mr president, for seeing it on this occasion. ms rodrigues, you mentioned in your remarks the importance of job creation. do you consider that the existence of the euro, the one-size-fits-all currency, and the eurozone, help job creation or hinder job creation?
blue-card question.– do you agree with me – i am following on from what ms rodrigues was saying – that governments do not create jobs? business creates jobs, not governments. this may be a novel idea for this pan-european socialist assembly, but that is why people are queuing up to get into england, scotland and ireland, and they are not queuing up at the borders to get into europe.
mr president, like many colleagues i was shocked last week to hear that the commission was proposing to scrap two new environmental laws on clean air and recycling targets which sent out a very negative message to those who expect the eu to take the lead in environmental action. i know from my own experience in wales that these are crucial public health issues and create thousands of green jobs, so we will take as a promise that you will bring forward more ambitious proposals and we will wait for those with interest. i was encouraged, however, to see that the swansea tidal lagoon was included in the indicative project list for investment. it will not only be a source of renewable power for generations to come, but also a catalyst for investment in jobs: world leading technology being developed with the real involvement and the support of the local community. that is the kind of sustainable job-creating investment we really need to see in the future.
mr president, i would like to start by thanking mr juncker for coming to present his work programme to this parliament – although it would have been nice, to be honest, if it had been presented here first rather than having been leaked to the press. after listening intently to your proposals, i do have a couple of observations. my first observation is on the issue of tax havens. i welcome the fact that you recognise the problems we face in your work programme, though i have got to be truthful, the cynic in me does wonder if this would have been included if it were not for the recent luxleaks scandals. mr juncker, this parliament made it clear last year that we wanted immediate action to tackle tax evasion, outlining priority areas such as country-by-country reporting and blacklisting for tax avoiders. that was last year, and so far we have seen little action. in that time, citizens across the eu have continued to see their wages cut, health services cut, public services cut. day by day, week by week, people from all over europe, who continue to pay their taxes, have seen their living standards squeezed. yet in this time we have continued to allow large corporations to avoid paying their dues, avoid paying what they owe and avoid living up to their responsibilities. we need legislation now. no longer can we turn a blind eye to tax injustice. my second observation is in regard to the scrapping of the air quality package. mr juncker, i warn you now. kicking this legislation on air quality into the long grass will have serious implications for public health across the eu. air pollution kills 400 000 people every year. to scrap legislation that could save so many lives is not just appalling, it is actually totally irresponsible. this will send a message to everyone that the eu is no longer interested in promoting progressive environmental health policy. i urge you, mr juncker, to reconsider this issue now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i am not sure that is anything to do with what i said, but i would say in response that i do not believe in a europe that is just for business. europe has got to serve all its citizens, and that includes making sure that everybody has a decent standing of living too.
blue-card question.– i wonder if you would agree with my football analogy on something. i believe that football is best played when the referee has a very light touch. he looks after the rules, he makes sure that there is no cheating and no foul play but he is not blowing his whistle every five minutes over the slightest thing. that way you can have a beautiful game; you can see things go well. with an economy, you can have a beautiful dynamic flowing economy and it can be a wonderful thing to see just like watching my home club wolverhampton wanderers is a beautiful thing to see in football. would you agree?
in writing.– i am strongly disappointed with the commission’s decision to withdraw the circular economy and air quality packages from its 2015 work programme. in a situation when an overhaul of eu waste and recycling laws could potentially generate up to 180 000 new jobs while saving 58 000 lives across europe every year by improving air quality, the decision to withdraw these vital proposals is neither sustainable nor reasonable. frans timmermans left us with a promise that the withdrawn dossiers will be substituted with new ones, potentially easier to achieve. i worry this is a mere promise rather than the concrete delivery of results that eu citizens need. i also wonder whether ‘easier to achieve’ actually means less ambitious and that it will not address today’s problems of air pollution or unemployment. fortunately, thanks to the mobilisation of european socialists & democrats, parliament will express its discontent with commission’s work programme in a resolution. we will not remain mute in the face of a european agenda based on deregulation and focused solely on the economy, with little or no space left for the concerns of the people and for the environment. the commission is in grave danger of taking the wrong road.
in writing.– these set piece debates always come full of political rhetoric and complete with vision for the future. the commission’s work must however be judged by their actions, not their words, and only time will tell whether the new college of commissioners have a real plan for europe. the commission promises a forward looking climate change policy but then withdraws proposals on air pollution. europe must take a holistic approach on the environment and we will be watching the commission carefully in this area. the commission argues for a reasonable and balanced trade deal with the us but, again, the devil will be in the detail. the concerns over ttip are real, and any deal which jeopardises europe’s public services will be rejected in this house. finally, the commission calls for a union of democratic change. my own country is going through democratic changes at the moment and the eu should take note of what is going on there. the people of scotland are increasingly disenchanted with westminster rule and we are on a journey to reclaim control over our destiny. the eu too often seems remote and the commission must acknowledge this reality to retain popular legitimacy.
madam president, i welcome the fact this budget is within the agreed limits of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and i find it welcome too that there is greater emphasis on jobs and growth. in that respect, commissioner, you have shown admirable intent to meet the needs of the citizens and i congratulate you for that. but, i was disappointed that there is not more intent to address the problem of unpaid bills and accumulating rals. that i find unacceptable. it is clear that through the past we have been habitually spending more than we earn; in other words expenditure was exceeding revenue. the answer to this house is not to demand more revenue. our first instinct should be to use the resources we have more efficiently. with finite resources, surely we should prioritise strictly according to value for money. but for parliament to make that kind of judgment, we need a greater role; we need a role scrutinising delivery of the budget; we need a role monitoring performance; and we need a role evaluating value for money.
madam president, we are here once again to discuss the issue of the european union budget for 2015. i want to explain to you how this is seen in the united kingdom. there is a perception that taxpayers are being asked to contribute more and more and that they do not actually get enough in return. for that reason, the recalculation of gni and the extra british contribution of gbp 1.7 billion plays into the same feeling. it is within the rules, but a recalculation in which greece and italy pay more, and germany pays less, comes across in a particular way to voters. in may, over 50% of the vote in the united kingdom went to parties which want less europe. you may well believe that to be a minority view across the european union, but it is a majority view in the united kingdom. if anything, it underestimates the strength of feeling. two polls in the last week both showed that 58% of those expressing an opinion wanted the united kingdom to leave the european union altogether. so this budget – back to the budget – is an elegant compromise but it is a compromise between the council, the commission and parliament. i understand that it is a compromise that many, if not most, members of this house are unhappy with, even though they may, when it comes down to it, vote in favour of it. but this is where there is a yawning chasm. a chasm between what goes on here and what is going on in the united kingdom. it is not, i think, a compromise which the british people will readily accept. the gap between europe and the united kingdom is not the deep blue sea but there is a fundamental difference in belief about what europe should be about.
madam president, we talk a lot about figures in our budget discussions, but sometimes we forget what the money is used for. i refer particularly to those beneficiaries of eu investments. we all know examples of beneficiaries of structural funds and agricultural funding, but i wanted to say a few words on investments in our universities. in wales, for example, we recently had announcements of gbp 750 million for a second campus at swansea university, gbp 45 million for bangor university, and gbp 20 million for aberystwyth university – all projects which would not happen without eu investment. that is why i can say that not all parts of the uk are anti-eu. we see the benefits of it. i would hope that everybody in this chamber would recognise the importance of us investing in innovation, research and development, particularly in our academic institutions. it is so important for the future of our economies. to do that, of course, we need an eu budget which is adequate, but also one which focuses on the things that produce jobs and growth.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, commissioner, i would praise you for your swift actions, amongst others, in reacting to this remarkable crisis that the un food programme has brought about. i have a couple of concrete questions for you about it: do we think there is a systemic problem within the world food programme that brought about the suspension of aid? were they simply overwhelmed, in which case we lent a hand to the tiller? or is there a policy issue that actually led to this remarkable action, which really does need to be examined further given its consequences? i was glad to hear about your joint trip to the region with your fellow commissioners, and the humanitarian aspects of this are only part of the story. as you rightly say, we need a political solution. therefore, could you give us a bit more information about how the eu and your services are coordinating amongst the member states as regards the ongoing military engagement of a number of our member states within this theatre, which are having a variety of consequences, and indeed as regards a coherent refugee policy on the part of a number of our member states, some of whom have considerably better records than others?
mr president, the resumption of aid is welcomed with great relief. with syria’s civil war in its fourth winter, the world food programme’s suspension of aid due to a shortage of funds would have a devastating impact on thousands of refugees. the cycle of the large-scale crisis has stretched humanitarian organisations to their limits. despite the increase in humanitarian funding, the gap between need and available resources keeps growing. it is not enough simply to strive for the better use of scarce resources, although funding humanitarian emergencies must be a top priority. it is even more crucial that we sever the problem from the roots. there is a direct link between the humanitarian situation in syria and the international response. if the international community had cooperated earlier on in dealing with the brutal assad regime, the humanitarian situation would not have spiralled out of control. even the elimination of isis will not end radicalised opposition. new groups in syria are likely to emerge to fill the void. we must tackle the radicalisation by addressing the desperate human aid needs today. it is our moral responsibility to help the refugees.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, let me start by congratulating sorin moisă on his excellent handling of this dossier which i think is the first report he has taken through this parliament, and also mr winkler for the work he has done as shadow. i think parliament has shown that it can act with speed in the right circumstances and i think we have a good agreement here where we have assisted moldova through our agricultural support for the three fruits that have been mentioned, but at the same time have done minimum harm – in fact, no harm at all – to the european agricultural sectors, so it is a win-win. the european union has committed itself to supporting moldova through the european partnership and association agreement. in the face of russian aggression and politically motivated trade bans it is right that the eu delivers on our commitment to strengthen economic ties with moldova and to encourage political stability in that country.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, can i also add my congratulations to mr scholz for his work on this dossier. we supported his amendments in committee, but think it was right not to bring them back in plenary in order not to delay this process. the eu, as we have heard, is ecuador’s most important trade partner for non-oil exports. any temporary and unnecessary disruption in trade would have had a severe impact on ecuador’s economy, and would most likely result in exporters looking for alternative markets with easier access than the european union. instead, with this bridging solution, we can continue to encourage and support trade between the eu and ecuador in order to ensure that both parties are able to benefit from the future free trade agreement. i welcome the fact that this agreement includes reciprocity, that the eu traders will get the same benefits they get now, as will ecuadorian traders. i welcome the fact that the rules of origin will continue to apply, and i welcome the fact that there are safeguards in this agreement for european producers. this is a good deal for both parties. again, i would like to thank both the commission and the rapporteur for their work.
madam president, ecuador is likely to join the eu—colombia and peru trade agreement in the coming months, but it will lose its preferential market access to the eu in just two weeks unless we act this week. i welcome the proposed regulation, which puts in place a provisional arrangement to ensure that trade between the eu and ecuador is not disrupted before our important vote and which does not prejudge our decision in that deal and allows us to get the right framework with the ecuadorian authorities. there is one point that i would like to raise: two years ago this parliament adopted a resolution asking the countries of the andean community – at that stage particularly colombia and peru – to commit to roadmaps on human rights and environmental protection before agreements were ratified. applying the same standards to ecuador would send an important signal that our trade relations are about more than just tariff lines, but are also a tool for our collective development and about improving human and labour rights around the world. i would therefore actively encourage the ecuadorians also to put forward a roadmap.
author.– madam president, i am actually waiting until the commissioner sits down. the last time i began he had not started and it seemed rude not to welcome him so this time i am going to welcome him to his position. and the reason is that i think there is a genuine feeling amongst the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs that we very much want to contribute to the internal security strategy. this is, at its very core, probably what we do the best, protecting our citizens, adding value to what the member states do, but also understanding that this is one of the most dynamic and interesting areas. we have something of a clean sheet for the next four years. i understand that we have to fill this blank sheet, this gap. but of course it is going to be complex. we are dealing with some of the most dynamic and sensitive areas: cybercrime, cyberterrorism, the issue of foreign fighters and so on. i will say something about that in a second. we want to play our part and if i can leave one message it is that the members of the civil liberties committee with their expertise and experience want to input into the commission strategy. and we understand that this is a council competence in so many areas but we have something to contribute. and we also have to contribute to the balance between protecting our citizens and understanding that fundamental rights are also extremely important in creating that balance. the security situation in europe has changed dramatically in recent years so the european union is confronted with the effects of new cross-border conflicts. new technologies are creating fast-growing new threats. this is even clearer when we think of those foreign fighters that have joined terrorist groups abroad and, of course, one day may return to europe. this resolution is only the beginning of a process for a new, updated internal security strategy. with it we are launching an initial discussion on the features and priorities of a new strategy which will be released by the commission next year. it sets out areas that the civil liberties committee and the parliament consider vital to take into account in order to improve and enrich the strategy. by agreeing on this resolution we are making it clear on the parliament side what we want to see included, and this includes putting a stop to the activities of international crime networks and dismantling them, preventing terrorist attacks, enhancing cybersecurity, ensuring border security and increasing resilience to natural disasters. that gives a sense of the broad nature of this strategy but it also includes what we believe is our expertise in contributing to the strategy. the resolution sets out guidelines on exactly how we can respond to these threats and on what instruments should be implemented in the strategy. it is important for us on the parliament side to understand that we need to make better use of those instruments that we already have before creating new ones, and this is what we say in our resolution. with this new strategy we need a critical evaluation of those current instruments, both at eu and national level, and we need to learn the lessons from the previous strategy before we embark on any new instruments or any new strategies. we need a more hands-on effective operational cooperation amongst member states, for example more use could be made of existing valuable instruments such as joint investigation teams, and that has been said many times amongst the members of our civil liberties committee. of course, we need to take a balanced approach, which i mentioned at the beginning of my speech. in many security areas, for example, the right balance should be found between freedom, security and justice. we learned this from our surveillance inquiry; we learned it from the data retention ruling. i need not say too much more about this, but just to understand that these recent developments make us understand that security goes hand in hand with fundamental rights. but we also have expertise on the parliament side in relation to cybersecurity threats and we can contribute richly to the many complex areas that are coming up in relation to foreign fighters, passenger name records and the many new complex areas where the members of the civil liberties committee have very good experience, both on the security aspects and the fundamental rights aspects. when the commission publishes its communication for a new strategy in 2015, the civil liberties committee will react in order to promote a more substantial and focused debate and discussion in this area. commissioner and members of the council in office, when we add value to the internal security strategy i think the time for parliament to stand aside is long gone. i think the members of our civil liberties committee are poised and ready to contribute to this strategy. i think we have the experience to do it and i very much look forward to hearing the members of the civil liberties committee give their ideas to you for this next four years, which i think are going to be exciting, complex but very worthwhile.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we in the ecr welcome the fact that this summit is asking the right questions. first of all: how do we bring investment to the countries of the european union? but secondly: how do we make sure that we support those in ukraine who believe in the self-determination of their country, of which my polish colleague will say more later? we welcome the proposals on the investment fund, not necessarily for its content, but because it helps to kick-start a debate. not just a debate about eur 315 billion, but a debate about how we unlock the trillions of euros of private money that could be invested in eu member states to create jobs and growth. of course, questions need to be answered. how will the investment fund select and prioritise projects, as manfred weber asked? how will the fund leverage private investment? how will the fund avoid a situation where we privatise profits while nationalising losses? but the wider debate now being held in the eu about competition and investment must be turned into action. after all, we are trying to create an eu-wide market in goods, services and capital. in none of these areas have we completed our work. in the last of these – the single market in capital – we have hardly even begun. but let us not talk about a capital markets union if all it leads to is yet another regulatory union. what we really need are open, transparent and well-functioning capital markets so that firms and others do not rely so much on banks. we need to remove the barriers to private investment across the eu. not just private investment for infrastructure projects, but private investment for small businesses and entrepreneurs to turn their ideas into goods and services. why is it that non-bank finance, such as venture capital and crowdfunding, are underused in europe? let me give you a specific example: i am a regular lender on a website called kiva – kiva.org – where entrepreneurs from poorer countries can go to raise loans for their businesses. i and over a million other people lend usd 25 at a time to entrepreneurs in poorer countries which are crowdfunded into larger loans. but why is it that i can lend usd 25 to an entrepreneur in a poorer country but i cannot yet lend gbp 25 to an entrepreneur in a poorer community in my own constituency? working to solve this problem with others, i have found that we do not need state intervention. we just need to work with entrepreneurs and crowdsourcing websites, such as crowdpatch or forcommoncause in the uk, because the money is there. however, the will needs to be there to unlock that money; there needs to be an aggregate of individuals across the eu who are willing to lend small amounts of money. so breaking down the barriers to private investment and competition must be our top priority. however, this cannot be done in isolation. it must be part of a wider economic reform programme. now the council will repeat its commitments to addressing europe’s energy challenges, developing the digital single market and concluding bilateral trade agreements. on all these issues, the european conservative and reformist group has launched working groups that will present new ideas. so where we disagree with you, we will meet those challenges with our own ideas. but it is pointless for european leaders to come to brussels and call for a culture of competition that will unlock private investment when they then go back home to their capitals and fail to take the tough decisions that are urgently needed. many of these structural reforms are unpopular, and we know that they will be opposed by vested interests, but there is no other way. in my country, we adopt resolutions for the new year. my personal one will be to do more exercise. but let us ask the eu leaders at council to adopt their own resolution: a resolution to reform their own economies; a resolution to break down the barriers to investment and a resolution to cut red tape so that entrepreneurs can create new jobs. and let us hope that 2015 is a year that we get the eu back to work. happy new year! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr kamall, would you agree with me that the strongest states in europe are those which are outside of the euro and which practise entrepreneurial capitalism, which is perhaps a novel concept for this house? why doesn’t the eu try to do some business, or to bring business rather than state investment? governments do not create jobs; businesses do. since the eu does not get that, would we not be better off, mr kamall, leaving the eu?
blue-card answer. – mr coburn, i have to say, first of all, that i was wondering when the question would come. secondly, i was not surprised by the question. was anyone in the house surprised by that question? quite frankly, no. the first question you asked, mr coburn, was: why is it that countries outside the euro area attract more investment? i know that you are a keen scholar of my previous speeches. (laughter) you will have read in my previous speech that i made exactly that point and so the lesson for the euro area is to understand why they attract more investment. thank you for your question. i look forward to many more in the years to come.
blue-card question. – good morning and merry christmas! i noticed that you said you did not want to talk about nuclear industry because it was having to be subsidised. does that mean that you would agree with me that we should not really be considering all these power generation sources that are so inefficient and so ineffective that they need subsidies, like wind farms and things like that? because, after all, they are quite clearly a very bad investment. so would you agree with me that maybe we should just stick to what makes money and what works?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, looking at the agenda of this week’s council, it would return to the same old themes of growth and jobs. it is as if things get discussed over and over again and nothing ever happens. spain still has over 50% youth unemployment; france’s economy is tanking; and greece, quite frankly, just needs to leave the euro to get its economy moving again. and of course, another round of hot air from europe’s great and good – or indeed bad, if you listen to normal people – will not solve anything. the central feature of the agenda is mr juncker’s investment plan, with which, somehow, he will magically turn eur 21 billion into eur 315 billion. well, to get into the festive spirit, this reminds me of the classic pogues song ‘fairytale of new york’, because what we are witnessing today is the fairytale of strasbourg. now, mr juncker, i know you like a drink. i know you like a cigarette, but i do hope that you are a betting man too or, to use a british phrase, you like a flutter on the horses. if you do, i have come up with a more realistic plan for you to increase your money 15 times over. at ludlow racecourse today at 15.00, a race called the european breeders’ fund is taking place. there is a perfect horse running for you, and it is pricing at 15/1. it is called ‘dream’. alternatively, there is another running at tampa tonight. it has got an even better name, and i think you should go for it: it is called ‘super fantasy’. now, there is a serious point to all this, mr juncker, because your investment plan is an economic dream based on super fantasy economics. the commission has described the funds forecast leverage as, i quote, ‘prudent estimates from historical experience’. well, you can excuse me if i say: we do not believe you; because these are the same eurocrats who told us ten years ago that the euro would bring us growth and jobs. mr juncker, europe is sinking under global competition, and the european union is not the answer. unfortunately for the european people, your investment plan is the biggest turkey on the table. and on that festive note, i wish you all a very merry christmas! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – hopefully when people bet on horses sometimes they win. in this place it seems that no one ever wins. you know the fact of the matter is, the alternative is a free democratic europe made up of nation states which take their own decisions. what it should not be made up by is an organisation which is truly undemocratic, where the decisions are taken by a european commission that meets in secret, where democracy is bypassed, where referendums are not listened to. what we stand for is democracy, we stand for freedom, and that is why we are the voice of the european people.
blue-card question. – thank you for drawing attention to paul’s excellent speech earlier. i have no doubt that british business would invest in this. what business would not invest in a no-lose scenario? but can you not see, or would you not agree with me, that the reason why taxpayers are having to back up so many of these schemes is quite simply because they are bad investments? it is as simple as that. if they were not bad investments, private investment would do it without the government having to back it up with all of our taxpayers’ money.
mr president, i am a long-time supporter of recognition for another islamic country, and that is somaliland. on 3 september this year i wrote to the commission – written question e-006540/2014. on 4 october the commission replied. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this is an important issue. i put the written question with regard to another muslim islamic country, somaliland. (whistles from the floor)listen! the commission replied on 4 october 2014 and the answer was that the european union does not have the competency to recognise states: only individual member states do, as indeed sweden has. so mr president, i ask you, as president of this parliament, to rule on inadmissibility.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it is irrelevant what any of us think about the palestinian-israeli issue. that is not the point. you call yourselves a parliament. if you are a parliament, then presumably you believe in rules and the rule of law. my colleague, mr carver, who was shouted down by the same anti-democratic voices we are hearing now – and who was, with respect, mr president, totally ignored by you – did, just a few weeks ago, write to the commission about the recognition or otherwise of british somaliland. he was told that the commission does not have the ability, the power or the right to recognise new member states. therefore, the request that was made to you – that this motion was inadmissible – simply has to be true. i am asking you now: will you rule on this? can we please strike out this vote? we cannot tell ms mogherini to press ahead, because the commission – by its own admission – does not have the power.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my group, like many groups, had an internal debate on this issue. there were many who felt, whatever their personal feelings about the recognition of palestine or otherwise, that it was actually for member states and not this european parliament to recognise the state of palestine. but we have now voted and we have to be clear that, if we are to achieve a longstanding sustainable peace, all parties to this conflict have to play their role. fatah have to tackle their corruption, hamas have to renounce their terrorism, and the israelis and the netanyahu government – to be quite clear – have to rein back the settler movement and respect the 1967 borders. then we can truly move towards a sustainable peace between the two states.
mr president, like people on all sides of this chamber, i am in favour of any measures that strengthen the sovereignty of moldova and the western orientation of the bessarabian people, but there is another issue here that goes beyond the political one. we are now extending the common market to the sparse and under-developed farmland on the banks of the dniestr. i hope this will at last help people to understand the difference between membership of the european union and free trade with the european union. the two issues are repeatedly conflated, not least in my own country, with the implication being that you cannot have access to european markets unless you are part of the political structures in brussels. as we now know, virtually every country in europe, macedonia, the channel islands, norway, lichtenstein, andorra are all part of a european market without needing to be part of the european union. the idea that britain alone would be the only country not to enjoy unrestricted trade with the eu in the event of our non-membership is a fantasy.
in writing. - i abstained on autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova because of wider implications for relations with russia. on the one hand, this motion involves the inclusion of small quantities of fruits and vegetables which can be easily absorbed in the eu and provides an opportunity to prevent instability in a country which neighbours eu member states. on the other hand, there is a serious need to consider farmers who are already being hurt by the diplomatic failures between the eu and russia. we should be reminded by this threat of instability of the real and pressing need for the commission and council to act in a more strategic way to effect and deal with this diplomatic crisis.
in writing. — i have concerns that this may prove to be counterproductive; action in solidarity with moldova may serve to exacerbate the current international situation with russia.
in writing. — russia imposed an import ban on moldova and the eu as a show of ‘solidarity’ wants to increase trade preferences in order to help out moldova. this would only further inflame russia and is clearly intended to butter up moldova for eu membership.
in writing. — ongoing russian sanctions against moldova are placing great strains on that country’s economy. the eu is right to seek to support moldova and i accordingly voted in favour of this report.
in writing. — i supported the trade measures as they will provide economic relief for the republic of moldova, which is affected by the russian ban on its agricultural products. it also gives a clear sign of solidarity with the people of moldova and will reinforce its reform process.
in writing. — i voted in support of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 introducing autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova. moldova and its citizens are facing serious economic difficulties, particularly due to the import ban on moldovan agricultural products, imposed by russia in july 2014. this proposal by the commission would grant moldova additional duty-free tariff quotas for fresh apples, grapes and plums under the existing atp regime which is due to expire in december 2015. this would provide immediate relief to the moldovan economy while having a negligible impact on the eu market.
in writing. — i wished to abstain on this matter. it concerns the application of tariffs concerning ecuador. i praise the rapporteur’s concern over too much commission power. on the other hand, the demands made on ecuador may be impractical.
in writing. — i supported the resolution as it offers a transitional safety net minimising negative effects on economic operators involved in eu-ecuador trade.
in writing. — i voted in support of the proposal for a regulation on the tariff treatment for goods originating from ecuador. this regulation allows for stable trade flows from 1 january 2015, when ecuador is due to lose trade preferences it enjoys for accessing the european market through the generalised system of preferences (gsp), until the recently concluded free trade agreement between the eu and ecuador enters into force in 2016. the proposal acts as a desirable step to facilitate a seamless transition from the current trading conditions to the ones established by the trade agreement.
in writing. — i do not believe that the contingency margin should be needed; the institutions of the european union should instead be cut down to size.
in writing. — i voted against an increase in this year’s eu budget. we need to put the principles of added value and efficiency at the heart of budgetary decision-making in europe. i want to see a real budget reform in the eu with a greater focus on generating growth and jobs, and areas that do not bring any real benefits to our constituents cut.
in writing. — i believe that the mobilisation of the contingency margin, whilst justified, is controversial for a number of reasons. primarily because there is no sufficient reason to mobilise it, also due to the continuing dispute between the parliament and council over whether it should be considered outside of the payment ceiling.
in writing. — i and my fellow labour party meps voted against the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on mobilisation of the contingency margin, releasing new money in the 2014 budget. in the framework of the negotiations on the 2014-2015 budgets package, it has been agreed to mobilise the contingency margin for an amount of eur 3 168.2 million. this mobilisation is not likely to sustainably address the recent payment shortages and the growing amount of outstanding commitments, but only to limit the increase in outstanding bills rolled over to the following year, which has grown by more than 50% every year since 2010. we must put the principles of added value and efficiency at the heart of budgetary decision making in europe.
in writing. — this calls for additional payment appropriations, and therefore it is consistent for me to oppose it.
in writing. — i voted against an increase in this year’s eu budget. we need to put the principles of added value and efficiency at the heart of budgetary decision-making in europe. i want to see a real budget reform in the eu with a greater focus on generating growth and jobs, and areas that do not bring any real benefits to our constituents cut.
in writing. — i voted against draft amending budget no 3/2014 on the revenue from fines, interest payments, reimbursements and repayments. we are against what has been dubbed ‘fresh money’ at the end of this year’s budget. we must put the principles of added value and efficiency at the heart of budgetary decision making in europe.
in writing. — whilst a new data supervisor could not be appointed and this resulted in some saving, it also changes the expected contributions from member states based upon macroeconomic data.
in writing. — i voted with the majority to support draft amending budget no 4/2014 on traditional own resources (tor), vat and gross national income (gni) bases. draft amending budget no 4/2014 calls for a revision of the forecast of tor, vat and gross national income (gni) bases, the budgeting of the relevant uk corrections, and a revision of the forecast of other revenue arising from fines. this would result in a change in the level and distribution between member states of their own resources contributions to the union budget. the adoption of dab no 4/2014 will reduce the need for additional own resources for the union budget by eur 2 433 million and will therefore, together with the reduced shares of the gni contribution from member states to the union budget, fully compensate for the additional payment needs requested in dab no 3/2014, as agreed in the joint conclusions of 8 december 2014.
in writing. — i voted against uk taxpayers’ money being sent to italy, greece, slovenia and croatia, especially when we have natural disasters to deal with in our own country, and we are already paying gbp 21 million a day in foreign aid. a further demand of eur 46 million, a large percentage of which will come from the uk, is not something that british taxpayers want.
in writing. — while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. — i supported the mobilisation of the fund, as it is crucial we show solidarity with people from the affected areas by helping to rebuild basic infrastructure, funding emergency services, providing temporary accommodation, contributing to clean-up operations and countering immediate health risks.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in order to assist in helping rebuild infrastructure, fund emergency services, provide temporary accommodation as well as contribute to clean-up operations and counter immediate health risks.
in writing. — i understand that this is for aid which could be used to help victims. the british public are already more than generous in donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. — today i voted to support the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund (eusf) for member states affected by disasters. the commission's proposal concerned eusf being granted in favour of floods in italy during november 2013, an earthquake in greece, ice storms in slovenia, and the same ice storms, followed by floods in croatia, at the end of january / beginning february 2014. the commission proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 46 998 528.
mr president, i was about to say that the first instinct of the legislator in a crisis is to reach for his wallet, but of course it is really to reach for your wallet. whenever we are faced with one of these catastrophic events the answer is always to spend somebody else’s money, which allows you a vicarious glow of virtue at no cost to yourself. can i suggest something to colleagues from across the chamber: if you feel moved by bad news of this kind, reach into your own pocket rather than into your constituents’ pockets! and i do not say that only as a rhetorical device. one of the particular catastrophes that we are talking about in this report was the floods that devastated eastern slovenia and other parts of the balkans in may. i was very proud a few weeks ago to lead a group of politicians from the alliance of european conservatives and reformists doing some physical work clearing up the damage caused by those floods with our friend ruža tomašić, the patriotic anti-corruption mep for croatia. it is possible to go and do something with your own hands, rather than passing the bill to somebody else, and shall i tell you something? it makes you feel a lot better.
in writing. — aid through the solidarity fund is not an efficient means of assisting with floods. it only represents a small portion of the money spent by member states and is an administrative nightmare. far better to reduce member states’ contributions and to allow them to deal with such matters directly themselves.
in writing. — while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. — i supported the mobilisation of the fund, as it is crucial we show solidarity with people from the affected areas by helping to rebuild basic infrastructure, funding emergency services, providing temporary accommodation, contributing to clean-up operations and countering immediate health risks.
in writing. — while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. — i voted with the majority in support of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the countries affected by natural disasters. draft amending budget no 5/2014 relates to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 46 998 528 in commitment and payment appropriations in relation to the floods in italy during november 2013, an earthquake in greece, ice storms in slovenia, and the same ice storms, followed by floods in croatia, at end january / beginning february 2014.
in writing. — this is the draft amending budget which led to the extra payments required of the united kingdom disproportionately. in consequence, i cannot support it.
in writing. — i supported the draft amending budget as it reduces the amount member states, such as the uk, need to pay due to the recent gni adjustments.
in writing. — today i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2014 on the revision of the forecast of traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions. it also involves a reduction in the budgetary appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, as well as an increase in the budgetary appropriations for the european ombudsman. i welcome the proposal to use eur 6.2 million of the savings in payment appropriations to help finance possible humanitarian aid crises by the end of the year.
in writing. — while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. — i supported the mobilisation of the fund, as it is crucial we show solidarity with people from the affected areas by helping to rebuild basic infrastructure, funding emergency services, providing temporary accommodation, contributing to clean-up operations and countering immediate health risks.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in order to better equip member states to rebuild basic infrastructure, fund emergency services, provide temporary accommodation, contribute to clean-up operations and counter immediate health risks.
in writing. — while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. — i voted for the commission's proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund in favour of floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and floods in bulgaria in june 2014. the flooding is of natural origin and therefore falls within the field of application of the solidarity fund. the total amount of aid proposed for croatia and bulgaria comes to eur 19 501 835 and serbia will receive the appropriation of eur 60 224 605.
in writing. — aid through the solidarity fund is not an efficient means of assisting with floods. it only represents a small portion of the money spent by member states and is an administrative nightmare. far better to reduce member states’ contributions and to allow them to deal with such matters directly themselves.
in writing. — while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. — i supported the mobilisation of the fund, as it is crucial we show solidarity with people from the affected areas by helping to rebuild basic infrastructure, funding emergency services, providing temporary accommodation, contributing to clean-up operations and countering immediate health risks.
in writing. — while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. — i voted with the majority to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for member states affected by natural disasters. draft amending budget no 7/2014 calls for the mobilisation of the eusf for an amount of eur 79 726 440 in commitment and payment appropriations in relation to the floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and the floods in bulgaria in june 2014. financial assistance should be released to these countries as a matter of urgency.
in writing. — this is a technical matter; i therefore abstained.
in writing. — i supported the draft amending budget, as the budgeting of this surplus will diminish accordingly the global contribution of member states to the financing of the eu budget.
in writing. — today i voted with the majority on draft amending budget no 8/2014. this draft amending budget is devoted solely to the budgeting of the 2013 surplus, for an amount of eur 1 005 million, in accordance with article 18 of the financial regulation. dab no 8/2014. it was presented by the commission because the conciliation committee could not reach an agreement on dab no 2/2014, which had the exact same purpose and contents.
in writing. — whilst on the one hand this proposal gives the uk some interest-free credit as has already been agreed with the commission, the nature of the text is somewhat confrontational.
in writing. — i welcome the fact that changes are to be made to ensure that the ludicrous situation where member states are handed eu bills simply out of the blue cannot happen unchecked again. the reality is that the united kingdom pays far more into europe than it gets out – both in financial and social terms. the reality is that no calculation of gni, and no calculation of vat, over any length of time, should mean that the uk taxpayer should give more money to europe simply because the economy they are a part of is growing. this, however, is not something the bearers of this report realise – they want more, more, more. such a wanton disregard for the pressures facing household budgets strikes to the very heart of the increasing argument that fairness must be re-enacted within our relationship with the eu.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation amending euratom. in light of the latest statistical revisions agreed by the member states, it appeared that a number of member states underpaid their due contributions to the union budget over a number of years, while others overpaid theirs. the united kingdom was one of the member states to underpay. the rules currently in force would have resulted in the prompt correction of those under- and over-payments. the council called on the commission to present a proposal to accommodate the situation, by changing the concerned rules and allowing the deferral and payment by instalments of amounts. regulation (ec, euratom) no 1150/2000 should therefore be amended accordingly.
in writing. — aid through the solidarity fund is not an efficient means of assisting with floods. it only represents a small portion of the money spent by member states and is an administrative nightmare. far better to reduce member states’ contributions and to allow them to deal with such matters directly themselves.
in writing. — while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. — i supported the mobilisation of the fund, as it is crucial that we show solidarity with people from the affected areas by helping to rebuild basic infrastructure, funding emergency services, providing temporary accommodation, contributing to clean-up operations and countering immediate health risks.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in order to better equip member states to rebuild basic infrastructure, fund emergency services, provide temporary accommodation, contribute to clean-up operations and counter immediate health risks.
in writing. — while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. — today i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eusf for regions affected by disasters. the current decision of the european parliament and the council aims at including eur 50 million in commitments and payments in the 2015 budget. this amount corresponds to advances that will need to be paid out in a speedier and more efficient way in the event of a natural disaster next year.
in writing. — this appears to grant an additional allocation from structural funds to cyprus, in the amount of 100 million euros. i oppose the use of the flexibility mechanism here.
in writing. — this is to allow an additional amount from the structural funds to cyprus for 2015 – giving a total of eur 100 000 000.00 it is very easy for meps to vote away other people’s money, with limited information, and very little success from such schemes. is it not time that we stopped taxing people to give this money out on whims, to prop up big businesses and ngos? i voted against uk taxpayers’ money being used in this way.
in writing. — the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument will clearly identify expenses which cannot be covered by the eu budget without exceeding the maximum expenditure set out in the mff.
in writing. — i voted with the majority in supporting the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance the cypriot structural funds programmes. after having examined all possibilities for re-allocating appropriations it appears necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument for commitment appropriations. the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to complement financing in the 2015 general budget of the european union. a sum of eur 79.8 million in commitment appropriations will go towards the financing of the cypriot structural funds programmes.
mr president, in october my labour colleagues and i voted for the eu to do more of what it is good at. since then, we saw an inspirational example of this when philae landed on a comet. it has been compared to landing a washing machine on burnham-on-sea from 500 million miles away. we have seen significant and welcome progress this year with a reversal of many of the council’s most destructive cuts – cuts that would have hurt communities, small businesses and centres of research in my region. unfortunately we have not seen a sufficient reallocation of funding from the cap or from our monthly visits here to strasbourg, a beautiful city to visit but not what you would call a good use of time and money. we want to see eu money spent on areas with real added value for our citizens and on projects that fulfil our international responsibilities. i look forward to this budget being put to that good work in 2015.
in writing. — taxpayers in the united kingdom will not support yet another increase in membership fees to the european union. whilst the compromise may be elegant in terms of avoiding provisional twelfths, the interests of the people are not fully considered.
in writing. — i voted against an increase in next year’s eu budget. we need to put the principles of added value and efficiency at the heart of budgetary decision-making in europe. i want to see a real budget reform in the eu with a greater focus on generating growth and jobs, and areas that do not bring any real benefits to our constituents cut.
in writing. — all 16 of these amendments were to raise the budget of the european union, and consequently increase the contributions required by member states. i therefore voted against these amendments, as well as the budget overall.
in writing. — today i voted against the general budget for the european union for the 2015 financial year. we will always argue for maximum restraint on the eu budget. i could not support the final general budget for 2015, as it is a real-terms rise on the 2014 budget and it is still too high. according to the draft package, the overall level of commitment appropriations in the 2015 budget is set at eur 145 321.5 million while the payment appropriations total comes to an additional eur 3 529.6 million.
mr president, year after year some member states seem to pay far more attention – indeed exclusive attention – to the level of spending in the european union budget, and ignore the content. i believe the two are intricately linked and we should do better to look more at the content. if we can use the european budget for those items of spending where, by spending at european level, you save money at national level by avoiding duplication or by economies of scale, then there would be far more consensus about the usefulness of the union’s budget. in that respect, i think the growth in recent years of the research and development part of the budget, which is a manifest case of pooling resources to get a better result, to get a ‘bigger bang for your buck’ as the americans say, is a good example and needs to be quoted much more often in domestic debates, not least in my own country.
in writing. — i do not support this budget, for the reasons outlined in my previous explanation of vote. i opposed all of the amendments for increasing funding, which appear to have been more political posturing than anything else. the textual amendments were varied, but i deplore in particular the rejection of the amendments which would have required greater transparency from meps. finally, i note that amendment 30 was ruled inadmissible. i disagree; it was a textual matter.
in writing. — i voted today against an overall eu budget which failed to include sufficient reallocation of funds away from unreformed areas like the cap and strasbourg sessions. when working people, pensioners and the unemployed are under more financial pressure than ever, the eu budget must be prudent and reduce spending which is not targeted at producing sustainable growth and jobs. equally, we must use european funds to develop the technologies of the future. so today i also voted to protect eu research funding. the eu research budget has been particularly productive in the uk. the uk has received eur 4.8 billion over the last 7 years from the eu research budget – more per capita than any country except the netherlands. in the south-east of england, eu research funds and european partnerships have produced ground-breaking research, such as the culham centre for fusion energy which is exploring how to deliver carbon-free energy, and the university of kent’s interlink project to improve long-term care for older people. it is disappointing that the uk government failed to support proposed rises in eu research funding in the council, whilst equally failing to secure a more prudent approach in relation to areas like the cap.
in writing. - i am deeply disappointed that we still have not reformed the common agricultural policy. it is high time we shift to structural projects that bring jobs and growth. for example, the eu is helping to roll out broadband in my region of west midlands to bridge the digital gap between urban and rural areas. such projects offer more perspectives to people than direct payments ever could. responsible budgeting is key. i do welcome increased funds for research and development, but if we cannot put our money where our mouth is, this undermines our credibility. the strength of the eu resides in its ability to improve people’s lives through strategic and coordination action – so why is this not reflected in our budget plans?
in writing. — today, alongside my labour party colleagues in europe, i voted against the 2015 eu budget in light of a lack of reform. although labour meps have worked hard with our european colleagues to see increases in the research and development provision (an area that britain is the biggest beneficiary of and which has gone towards projects such as the development of graphene in my region) and i welcome the fact that the eu will do more to meet its international responsibilities for humanitarian aid and development, i cannot support and vote for a budget that sees so much waste of taxpayers’ money on unreformed areas like the common agricultural policy and strasbourg sessions. we must see a move towards a budget that brings added value for taxpayers and sees investment in sustainable growth that creates jobs and secures the uk’s future as a major global player.
in writing. — across europe our vital public services are under threat from austerity measures, many of which are ideologically driven. nevertheless, there remain areas of the eu’s budget where a touch of austerity would be a good thing. expenses such as the european house of history are unjustified at any time and ludicrous in the current political climate. my votes reflect the need for the eu to invest in jobs, the economy and social justice.
in writing. — i voted against an increase in next year’s eu budget. we need to put the principles of added value and efficiency at the heart of budgetary decision-making in europe. i want to see a real budget reform in the eu with a greater focus on generating growth and jobs, and areas that do not bring any real benefits to our constituents cut.
in writing. — i believe that before voting for an increase to the eu budget it is essential that we reform key areas such as the cap. there are some positive aspects of the budget such as an increase in funding for research and innovation.
in writing. despite the lack of consensus in the conciliation committee, i am voting in favour of the new draft budget, because, despite certain reservations, i consider this budget to be a better solution from the european union's point of view than a possible provisional budget. not only would the budgetary provisional nature of the failure to find a common solution be negatively perceived by the citizens of the european union, but it would also have adverse consequences for the implementation of key policies and programmes within the union and create uncertainty. i consider it appropriate to implement in the budget certain progress made in the negotiations within the conciliation committee, in particular support for competitiveness and economic convergence. as a former dean of the faculty of law, i am pleased with the european union's interest in investing in education and training for young people, for example in the erasmus+ programme, and in supporting the new generation of young europeans, especially in view of the long-term underfunding of this area, even if this support does not reach the level i would consider ideal.
in writing. — it should be clear that i, as a ukip mep, opposed the budget for 2015. however, i would like to confirm that i voted in favour of those amendments put forward which would have resulted in greater scrutiny of members’ pay and allowances. i do not believe that amendment 30 should have been ruled inadmissible, because it related solely to the text of the report and was not binding upon the pay of members or staff.
in writing. — various amendments put forward by the efdd meps were voted down; consequently i was unable to support this document.
in writing. — i supported the resolution opposing the commission’s classification. i believe that illegal cabotage should be included on the list of serious road infringements, as it has an impact on working and living conditions that could lead to risk of road fatalities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion to reject the new fuel-quality standards proposed this year by the european commission. these watered-down proposals from the commission have given into the heavy lobbying efforts of the canadian government and will risk a significant increase of oil derived from tar sands into the european union. tar sands are highly polluting and it is very disappointing to see the european commission bow to oil industry pressure instead of prioritising the climate.
in writing. — today i abstained on the vote on the objection related to the fqd. the objectors oppose the draft council directive on the grounds that it is not compatible with the aim and content of the basic instrument due to the methodology proposed in the measure being inappropriate for an accurate estimating and reporting of the volume, type, origin and life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of fuels supplied. however, apart from picking a few points out of the com ia, the objectors fail to prove that the measure is incompatible with the aim and content of the basic act. although it is not perfect, the new proposal provides a basic tracking system that will encourage the use of electricity in transport and incentivise oil producers to reduce emissions from highly polluting processes. yes, we need to ensure that suppliers avoid high-carbon fuels, but we must minimise additional burdens in terms of reporting. with the commission intent on removing the fqd from its post-2020 energy and climate framework, the adoption of this objection will only serve to undermine the credibility of this directive by forcing an additional institutional delay on a piece of legislation set to expire in six years.
in writing. — i supported the resolution objecting to the commission’s proposal, as i believe that it is detrimental to the overall aim of the directive, namely to reduce co2 emissions and move towards a carbon-free energy supply in europe.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for resolution on the ‘commission delegated regulation of 20 october 2014 establishing a discard plan in the baltic sea’. a landing obligation means that all fish (up to a certain size – juveniles can be released again) that are caught need to be landed and counted against the fishermen's quota. the reason for having this is to conserve the fish stock that is left in this highly overfished sea and try to keep the cod species alive in the baltic. this resolution objecting to the entry into force of the landing obligation on 1 january 2015 for the fisheries in the baltic sea, would be environmentally unsustainable and would put the industry in this region into jeopardy.
in writing. — i voted for this resolution, but would like to point out that cod do not spawn until they are at least 55 cms.
in writing. — i voted against this motion, as i believe that to reopen the package at this stage would put implementation back by years. the position reached is a carefully negotiated compromise between different member states in order to allow us a version of the regulation which can be implemented on 1 january 2016.
in writing. — i did not support this motion to object as the current position we have on solvency ii and the delegated regulation is a carefully negotiated compromise in order to allow implementation on 1 january 2016. the issues raised in this motion were not sufficiently important to policyholder security to warrant re-opening of the delegated act at this late stage. solvency ii and the delegated acts are a consumer protection measure so should be implemented as soon as possible. there will be a review within two years where any issues can be addressed if necessary.
in writing. — i welcome the emphasis placed by this motion on the threat posed to the safety of people and communities across europe by radicalisation leading to terrorism and the increasing dynamics of cross-border criminality. while this focus is right and proper, however, it should not be seen in any way, shape or form as a means to replace or integrate the sovereign actions of member states and their armed forces in protecting citizens. despite this, there does remain a role for eu to play in several aspects of security policy. first of all, europe must encourage national governments to implement all crucial crime-fighting resources that they have at their disposal. in my own constituency, for instance, nationalist parties have prevented the successful national crime agency from tackling terrorism and organised crime in northern ireland. this is disgraceful and provides a safe haven for launderers and traffickers alike. the eu also has a role, given freedom of movement, to aid the detection of individuals that seek to further extremist causes or lead trafficking rings. effective cooperation is key to this battle.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for resolution because i believe close involvement of parliament in the development of the new internal security strategy is crucial. i find it severely disappointing that parliament was barely involved in this process last time. the price was paid by citizens, who were subjected to secret surveillance by member states and external parties, with the collaboration of private companies. striking an appropriate balance between combating security threats and protecting fundamental rights can be difficult but is necessary. take the battle against cybercrime, which is costing the global economy nearly usd 500 billion every year and could cause europe to lose 150 000 jobs. due to a lack of transparency, citizens’ calls for a renationalisation of communication structures are becoming louder. but only a collective eu response will allow us to tackle cybercrime. the lesson is that a security strategy which itself becomes a threat to people is self-defeating. we need a coordinated approach to security that deserves the trust of our citizens.
in writing. — the new strategy should be easily adaptable to evolving situations, with a joined-up approach across the union to tackle the increasing problem of foreign fighters, cyber-security, human trafficking, organised crime, money laundering and corruption. the focus must be particularly on the rising number of eu nationals who join terrorist organisations in conflict areas. we must have a multidimensional approach to deal with underlying factors such as radicalisation and intolerance and disrupt financial support to terrorist organisations, preventing the recruitment and providing for legal prosecution where appropriate.
in writing. — the eu desperately needs a holistic approach in order to address the rapidly changing security threats facing europe, including foreign fighters and cyber-security threats. importantly, fostering a joined-up approach will promote policies centred on fundamental rights such as the right to privacy. the resolution marks the beginning of an extensive and informed debate in the area of internal security.
mr president, i voted in favour of the joint resolution as a principled step in the right direction. recognition of the palestinian state, its people and its borders is a long overdue international obligation and a positive step towards peace. member states like ireland must now formally recognise and must protect the space of the palestinian state within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital. palestinian recognition is established in un resolutions and was voted on in leinster house in dublin last week. the palestinian people’s right to self-determination has been enshrined in international resolutions for 66 years. sinn féin calls on all parties to refrain from any actions which may undermine the viability and the prospects of the two-state solution. therefore, settlements must end, the apartheid wall must be dismantled and attacks on holy sites – along with the demolition of palestinian property – must stop immediately.
mr president, ukip advocates the two-state solution. personally speaking, i believe that recognition of palestine would make it easier for the international community to bring the two-state solution into being. i am confident that, one day, palestine will be recognised, but what we were asked to vote on today called on the commission to act, and i have no faith in the commission. just look at what eu interference has done in ukraine, in libya and in the former yugoslavia. eu imperialism is a destructive and destabilising force in the world and i cannot and will not encourage it. let us be in no doubt: recognising states is itself an act of statehood. my colleague, james carver, put a question to the commission on the recognition of somaliland, and in reply the commission confirmed that the eu does not have the competence to recognise states. for this reason i cannot countenance any request that the eu act as if it were a state.
mr president, i support a two-state solution, as does my party. however, how can this house vote to recognise statehood for one country, namely palestine, when it has admitted that it does not have the jurisdiction to do so? my voters sent me here to stop you inflicting damage on my country, yet you are extending your damage beyond our borders when you have no right to do so at all.
mr president, i will not apologise for being repetitive but my colleagues jim carver and nigel farage request a point of order on why an e-mail of authority from the eu stated that they had no power, ability or right to recognise a member state, yet today this was not the case. it seems that the right hand does not know what the left hand is doing. does this mean that anything written by the eu has no substance? i believe so.
mr president, recognition of palestinian statehood was a very emotive subject here today. the intent may have been laudable but the process wholly deficient and hence my abstention. i could not endorse a motion for which the european union has no agreed competence and thus no authority. eu interference could yet again undermine, not support, genuine attempts to resolve conflict in this area and if anything could heighten tensions. symbolic pretence and retrospective justification for this motion is unacceptable, as is misleading citizens and raising the hopes of palestinians totally and wholly reprehensible. abstention on this basis was my chosen option and i stand by it.
mr president, i voted against the palestinian state as recognising a palestinian state is not within the competence of this parliament. on 3 october the commission wrote to my ukip colleague, james carver mep, to explain that the eu cannot recognise somaliland, or any other state, and that this was the privilege of the nation states of the european union. therefore this so-called recognition of palestine is illegal and the commission has admitted it in writing. mr president, you should have ruled against it but you did not. recognition of palestine, or otherwise, should be left to nation states and the united nations. no one in great britain voted for a european state; we voted only for a trading bloc. this house has got well above itself. if pontius pilate could not solve the problem in the middle east with the threat of the galleys and crucifixion, how does this pathetic parliament think it can do better? it would be best left trying to sort out the deficit and the collapsing euro and not bothering with things it has no ability to deal with.
in writing. — voted against. the european commission has already stated that it does not have the authority to recognise states or otherwise, so this vote was technically illegal. a point of order raised by a ukip colleague tried to raise this point, but was ignored by the president. it is for individual nations to set foreign policy, not the european union. i will not vote for any motion that seeks to legitimise the presence of the eu on the world stage.
in writing. — in my written question (e-006540/2014) that i submitted to the european commission on 3/9/2014, i questioned the commissions’ view on recognition for somaliland. on 4/10/2014 the commission replied stating:‘the eu does not have the competency to recognise states, only individual member states do.’ in its capacity as an eu institution, the european parliament does not, therefore, have the ability to deal with the question of recognition of any state. i believe that this resolution is inadmissible and, accordingly, i voted against it. however, i wish to clarify that i support a lasting and viable two-state solution for israel and palestine, but this must be built on trust and non-violence. accordingly, until hamas revokes its call for the destruction of the israeli state, i cannot support recognition for palestine.
in writing. — i voted against palestinian statehood as recognising a palestinian state is not within the competence of this parliament. on 3 october the eu commission wrote to my ukip colleague james carver mep to explain that the eu cannot recognise somaliland or any other state and that this was the privilege of the various individual nation states. therefore this so called recognition of palestine is ultra vires and illegitimate. the president of the parliament should have ruled against this motion as the commission has admitted in writing that it was ultra vires. recognition of palestine or otherwise should be left to nation states and the united nations. if pontus pilate could not solve the middle eastern situation with threats of crucifixion and galleys how can this pathetic eunuch of a parliament, which made such a mess of the ukraine crisis, ever hope to solve this situation? the eu should sort out the catastrophic euro crisis it has created rather than try to destroy other nations.
in writing. — i believe it is truly regrettable that this debate on palestinian statehood has even reached this chamber. it is my view that a palestinian state can only derive from direct bilateral negotiations between israel and palestinian representatives. this is the position upheld by numerous international agreements, including the oslo accords and several un resolutions – and it is why all unilateral efforts to gain this recognition external to substantive negotiations must be roundly condemned. today’s vote also ignores the biggest obstacle to a palestinian state – terrorism, which has at its core the aim of destroying israel. hamas do not accept a two-state solution and their acts of terror must stop before any talks start. this is a position that my party has stood up for in northern ireland in times past and it is equally right to do so in this situation.
in writing. - i have opted to abstain on this resolution on palestine since the recognition of a state falls within the competence of the member states. in my own member state, the uk, the national parliament has voted in favour of recognising the state of palestine. i have full respect for that decision. i hope that progress can urgently be made towards achieving this two-state solution and to an ending of violence and a just and lasting peace on all sides.
in writing. — i voted against the recognition of palestine. i do not believe that recognition at this time would benefit the peace process and would in fact hinder the negotiations for a genuine two-state solution. i am committed to the eventual recognition of a palestinian state at a time more helpful to the peace process, as a two-state solution brought through negotiated agreement as the only way for palestinian aspirations of statehood to be met on the ground. additionally, this is a matter for national parliaments and not the european parliament. the principle of subsidiarity should be applied to the recognition of new states as the eu has no competency in this area.
in writing. — the eu does not have competence to recognise a nation state. only nations can do this, as the eu commission made clear in writing to my colleague james carver when he asked them about recognising somaliland. if the eu parliament accepts the rule of law, and abides by it and its own rules, then it would not even be allowing the vote in the first place. i support the two-state solution, and recognising palestine, while not requiring hamas to lay down its arms or the recognition of the right for israel to exist is a mistake. i cannot allow the eu to act as a nation state, when it is not, and will not support this. the uk as a sovereign nation should recognise palestine as and when it sees fit.
in writing. — my labour party colleague, richard howitt, called for a debate on this issue in november to attempt to break the deadlock which currently exists in the peace talks. i am committed to a negotiated two-state solution, with israel safe, secure and recognised within its borders, living peacefully alongside a democratic and viable palestinian state. i voted for recognition as i hope it will provide vital impetus to those who support peace on both sides of the conflict, and provide a message of hope that too many years of conflict can finally be ended; recognition is not an alternative to peace talks but could be a vital push to advancing them. i believe palestinian recognition can help strengthen moderate voices among the palestinians who want to pursue the path of politics, not the path of violence. i also welcome greater cooperation between the eu and israel through trade as well as scientific and cultural exchanges. i believe now is the time to deepen, not weaken, our economic and cultural ties across the region. i welcome this vote and look forward to the eu helping to bring peace to the middle east.
in writing. — today’s vote is an important symbolic act by this house. we join a number of national parliaments, including the scottish parliament, in recognising the principle of palestinian statehood. the momentum towards statehood is growing and today’s resolution will hopefully contribute to finding a two-state solution.
in writing. — i very much welcome the resolution. this is truly a historic moment, not only for the palestinians, who have suffered immensely for over 50 years, but for the whole of europe. a strong message from all parties across europe has shown its solidarity with those suffering in the middle east and has demonstrated its will to get more actively involved in the peace process. we need to use this momentum to urge remaining eu countries to follow suit and particularly to support efforts in the un to place a time limit on a final solution which is already long overdue, giving palestine its rightful official recognition.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the resolution to recognise the state of palestine as i believe that a two-state solution based on mutual recognition can help to facilitate the peace process in the middle east.
in writing. — i am of the view that the way forward in this conflict is a two-state solution – with an independent, prosperous palestinian state neighbouring a peaceful and secure israel. i therefore am happy to support anything which would further that end. unfortunately, this motion does not do that. a two-state solution can only come about after direct negotiations between the israelis and the palestinians whereby, at the very least, israel’s right to exist and live in peace is explicitly recognised. to put things into context, the current palestinian ‘unity’ government includes hamas. this summer alone, hamas launched 4 000 missiles into israel, all aimed at civilian targets. that is why this motion was flawed. hamas are a terrorist organisation – and are recognised as such by the eu. if the parliament wishes to recognise palestinian statehood unilaterally, they are effectively calling a proscribed organisation a legitimate authority in the palestinian territories, while terror attacks upon israelis are still taking place. real progress will be made by getting the relevant parties back to the table. if we are actually serious about a two-state solution and a viable palestinian state, we need to push for direct negotiation, not unilateral recognition.
in writing. - i wish to see a negotiated two-state outcome to the middle east peace process, resulting in a secure, universally recognised and essentially jewish state of israel, alongside a sovereign, viable, democratic, terrorist-free palestinian state. i therefore voted against the joint resolution, which fails to identify the continued sources of terrorism in the palestinian territories and fails to address the fundamental problem: the non-existence of a government whose writ runs throughout the palestinian territories, including gaza. the resolution seeks to enhance the role of the eu, ignoring the fact that the eu has little to show for 10 years of involvement, when the quartet has not met for over a year, and the eu does not use its financial leverage to bring about an end to terrorism and a fresh start to negotiations. contrary to its own admonitions, the resolution itself is an ‘incitement and provocation’. in any case, the eu does not have the right to confer recognition; this is the prerogative of our national governments.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the recognition of the palestinian state; this decision was agreed today by a considerable majority in the parliament thanks to the ongoing commitment of the socialists and democrats group. this resolution stresses the conviction in europe that the time has come to solve the israeli-palestinian conflict through the two-state solution based on the 1967 borders.
in writing. — labour meps led the negotiations for this resolution expressing support, in principle, for the recognition of a palestinian state. the resolution also makes clear that supporting the recognition of palestinian statehood should go hand in hand with the development of peace talks, which should be advanced. although we wanted the resolution to go further, i am pleased to see it pass by such a large majority. this vote should be seen as a step forward for the two-state solution, sending a message of european support for palestinian statehood in the anticipated un debate, and giving a new impetus to peace talks.
mr president, i come from a steel town, middlesbrough, in a region with thousands of jobs based in energy-intensive industries, including steel, which underpin our regional economy. in 2009–2010, our local community fought hard to save our steel and ensure a future for redcar’s blast furnace. it was not just a fight to preserve our industrial infrastructure and assets; we need investment in upgrading them and in environmental improvement – this would create jobs in a sustainable industry long into the future – and we need to recognise that we need ultra-low-carbon steel. i welcome the teesside city deal focussed on building an industrial cluster around carbon capture and storage. this is set to create 4 000 new jobs and sustain 20 000 more in our local industries. i co-signed and strongly supported today’s resolution, because it sends a clarion call to the commission and member states to involve the workforce and industry, and to finally implement the european steel action plan.
mr president, i strongly believe that our economic recovery is highly dependent on a strong manufacturing industry and that the european steel industry must be a sustainable and profitable part of this. i co-signed this resolution to ask the commission what it is doing to promote key industrial production in all member states in order to safeguard jobs across the european union. the commission needs to promote and protect higher social, economic and environmental standards across the eu, particularly working with our social partners. the commission needs to keep in mind our urgent need to develop a sustainable and decarbonised economy using a suite of options, including carbon capture and storage. this is why i call on the commission to commit to developing high-quality energy-efficient and innovative products and processes to promote growth and create quality jobs in a joined-up industrial policy.
in writing. — i voted against this motion for a resolution on the steel sector in the eu: protecting workers and industry. i recognise that the european steel industry is facing a significant structural crisis, coupled with weak demand and longstanding concern over energy prices. however, i cannot support this text as essentially it calls for reciprocity to apply for the steel import and export market as well as entering trade negotiations with a view to introducing quantitative restrictions. closing our markets to others is not right the right approach to our long-term free trade and competition goals.
in writing. — steel is one of the strategic sectors of the european industry that employs more than 350 000 people directly and millions of people in related industries. i therefore supported the motion calling to step up eu efforts to help the industry out of the crisis.
in writing. — the economic recovery of europe is highly dependent on a strong manufacturing industry. the steel sector plays an essential role in europe’s economy; industry is currently suffering from a substantial drop in demand, leading to a continuous loss of jobs and competitiveness which does not bode well for the necessary recovery of the european economy. i voted in favour of this resolution as it calls on the commission to ensure that future trade agreements include provisions which significantly improve export opportunities and market access for european steel and steel-based products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for resolution because a holistic approach to eu migration is disgracefully long overdue. president juncker promised us yesterday the commission would increase coordination and effectiveness in its work. the fact that over 3 500 people lost their lives this year trying to cross the mediterranean is why it should lose no time fulfilling this promise. what we need is coordinated internal and external policies, and i am sad to say the idea of a migration policy that lowers the burden on both migrants and eu citizens seems to be lost on many governments, including the uk’s: how can we stop our citizens’ wages being undercut if prosecutions for illegal exploitation of migrant workers by gangmasters have dropped by 84%? meanwhile, an additional 200 million people could be displaced due to climate change by 2050, yet some parties in the uk and elsewhere are trying to block the adoption of strong targets to tackle global warming. if we want to move forward on solving issues related to migration, a smart, coordinated and humane approach is the only way to go.
in writing. — i supported the resolution as it can help the european parliament to lay the foundations for a more proactive and flexible eu migration policy. the eu urgently needs to develop and safeguard legal routes into the eu for refugees and asylum seekers on the one hand, and for economic migrants on the other, as well as tackling criminal smugglers and human traffickers in the field of migration.
in writing. — the eu urgently needs to develop and safeguard legal routes into the eu for refugees and asylum seekers on the one hand, and for economic migrants on the other, as well as addressing the increasingly malevolent role played by criminal smugglers and human traffickers in the field of migration. this resolution lays the foundations for a more proactive and flexible eu migration policy.
in writing. — in the first nine months of 2014 at least 3 072 persons have died in the mediterranean sea according to the international organisation for migration. this statistic is unacceptable as it stands in stark contrast to our shared values and human rights within europe. with this is in mind i voted in favour of this resolution as it stresses the need to examine the overall strategy on cooperation with third countries and ensure that resources are best utilised for those who require protection.
blue-card question. – ms in ‘t veld, would you agree with me that the words that we have heard from the council today, whilst they sound very sweet, are in fact too little, too late? back in 2005 i stood in this very chamber and i raised with the council presidency on that day the fact that illegal detention centres were operating in europe. we did not receive any words at that time that they would be investigated – a mere side-step by the minister of the british government who was present on the day. would you therefore agree with me that further inquiries today should be conducted as to whether it is appropriate for any government minister who has knowledge simply to hide behind the façade of the presidency of the council and not share information with this parliament?
blue-card question. – i know you agree with me that torture is immoral, illegal and must always be condemned. do you also accept that military expediency requires the possibility of proper interrogation? i refer in the uk to the words of colonel tim collins, who said this: ‘since i was serving, the rules on interrogations have been tightened up because of lawyers. we are no longer able to carry out tactical questioning. the effect of the ambulance-chasing lawyers and the play-it-safe judges is that we have got to the point where we have lost our operational capacity to do tactical questioning’.
mr president, the recent senate report on cia interrogation techniques exposes that american administrations sanction torture. unfortunately this is not new. the five techniques were used by the british government to torture 14 irish men interned over 40 years ago. as a result, the irish government brought the british government to the european court of human rights, which was the first time a member state took another to that court. that happened in 1978 in a landmark ireland vs uk case on the hooded men. however, the court ruled that the five techniques amounted to inhumane and degrading treatment – not torture. the bush administration justified the used of these torture techniques in iraq, afghanistan and guantánamo bay by quoting the eu court ruling on the hooded men. however, information recently discovered by the pat finucane centre shows that the british government lied to the european court of human rights on the effects of these techniques, and that the 14 hooded men were indeed tortured. these torture techniques were sanctioned at the highest level of government by the then british minister of defence, lord carrington. only last week, the irish government confirmed it had referred the case of the hooded men back to the european court of human rights to revise its judgment. britain is guilty of torture. the british government must apologise for the use of the five techniques in ireland, just like it recently apologised for their use in kenya, and the american government must do likewise.
blue-card question. – mr brok, thank you for your contribution. as close friends of the us should we not now be asking them to close guantánamo bay?
mr president, one thing mr brok says accurately is that we both met dianne feinstein in the united states on the nsa inquiry. she was brave then, and she was brave on this subject. she faced huge pressure on the question of making this report happen. we should be very aware – and mr coelho will agree – that we have now been vindicated on our 2006 cia rendition inquiry and our report, which were happening in a very different context in a very different time. i would remind colleagues that, in 2006, when we in this parliament investigated with secondary sources – not the primary sources that the us senate had – all of these terrible and horrific brutal torture methods, it was under severe pressure. we were investigating our own governments in that context in a very fragile way, but we have been vindicated, because many of the same conclusions were reached in this parliament. that was a very difficult thing for us to do. what conclusions did we come up with? we came up with what john mccain said. he was a republican, a man who had been tortured, and someone who understood the difference between interrogation and brutal torture. what he said was that it was legally and morally wrong. but he also said that it brought no new information in the fight against terrorism. these are people who are not soft on terrorism. these are people who understand the qualitative difference between interrogation and torture, and the qualitative difference between having no information and bad information. that was john mccain, and that is why people are quoting him today. so let us understand that we were vindicated in our enquiry. this is not the end of the road. we have people languishing in guantánamo bay today who should be free, like shaker aamer. these are people whom our governments are requesting to be freed, who have been tortured and who have families, but who are actually languishing in prison. the story is not finished. it has only begun. these are our citizens – eu citizens. they are languishing in prison and they have been tortured repeatedly. we want them back and we should be representing them. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)
blue-card question. – if i can ask for the sake of members who were not here in 2006, you mentioned two things: you said that we were vindicated, and that it was difficult. why do you say that?
blue-card answer. – thank you for the brevity of the question. let me just say this to the house, and also to mr coelho who chaired that committee of inquiry very effectively – the rapporteur was claudio fava, an italian mep who is now a member of the italian parliament. these were members who took on a very difficult task and my assessment is that the three big inquiries of this parliament, the echelon inquiry, the inquiry into mass surveillance, and now the inquiry into cia renditions, all said the same thing, which is that we have very inadequate parliamentary scrutiny of these kinds of actions. these inadequate parliamentary scrutinies allow inadequate scrutiny of the kinds of actions that we now see which allow this extreme kind of torture which ends up with the kind of senate report that we see today. we must correct this, and that would be my point as to why the new members of this parliament should take an interest in what is happening today. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – thank you, mr moraes, for the work that you have done on this issue over a number of years. one of the biggest challenges that we have had has actually been getting information from our own governments: do you feel satisfied that we have had full disclosure from our member state governments? if we have not, how can any of us be satisfied that any of our citizens will not have to face such a thing ever again?
blue-card answer. – of course we do not have full disclosure and that is why i described dianne feinstein as a brave person. when elmar brok and i met her, we were aware that we were before a brave senator. we are parliamentarians, and when we were doing the cia inquiry in the european parliament and people were denigrating that inquiry, we were aware that we were dealing with our own governments – sometimes we were members of parliament with our own government in office – and we were investigating them. of course there is not full disclosure. we have to be brave in those situations and try and get as much information as possible. sometimes that will be second-hand and in a secondary way, as i said at the beginning, but we have to do it because without that accountability we cannot get the truth. but let me say finally that we still have european union citizens in prison today who are completely innocent and they should be free. that is why this is such a vital and important issue and all parliamentarians should be representing them if nothing else.
mr president, like others i welcome the senate report but regret that both of the main political parties did not participate in the full process. as others have said, it is clear that torture is forbidden. we know the mental and physical scars that are left and we have had members in this parliament who have suffered torture in their lives and can testify to the effects. i would also raise again in this house, as others have, the case of those still in guantánamo, such as london resident shaker aamer held prisoner, tortured in bagram, still held after twelve years in guantánamo, cleared for transfer in 2007. the british government has said it will have him back to rejoin his british wife and children. i think we fail to understand how he can still be in guantánamo when two democratic governments have agreed he should be returned. the use of torture demeans our demands regarding human rights from others elsewhere in the world and our reputation can only be rescued if the perpetrators and those complicit are brought to justice.
blue-card question. – i agree with what is being said in here. if we have inquiries into torture and these obscene practices, would you agree with me that it would be no good if these inquiries just finished with individual security officers being sacrificed and put forward as scapegoats while the men at the top – the politicians who gave the orders – still roam free, free from penalty? would you agree that this would be wrong and we need to go to the top with this?
mr president, days ago the pope stood in this very chamber and told us that when europe is not anchored to its values it sets itself adrift. it is very easy to point the finger at this chamber and say: you are being soft on terrorism and terrorists. but i stand as somebody who has faced the machine guns of the taliban and survived, and faced far-right extremists as well. those who attack us attack us because they want to take our values away from us. do not allow them to take from us through our reaction what they could never take from us through their actions. i do not just stand in criticism of the usa today. i stand to criticise all those who stood by and watched silently – that includes some of our governments. others went further and facilitated these illegal methods also. today we have no guarantees that any of our citizens could not face such acts again and our governments are still concealing facts. we have a choice, colleagues: either we unite behind our values or we divide and face the consequences.
in writing. – the us senate report documenting cia torture of alleged terrorists raises a number of fundamental questions about the nature and operations of the vast secret police networks which span the globe. the report details harsh cia interrogation techniques, including cia officers threatening to hurt, rape, and kill family members of detainees, but it omits the wider scope of violent activity in which the cia continues to be involved. this is simply unacceptable. it is also disgraceful that, despite over 6 000 pages of documents and testimony, recording crimes against humanity, the report is unlikely to trigger any trials or resignations. the scottish government is demanding answers from the uk and if we, in this chamber, represent countries that were directly or indirectly involved in these shameful practices it is our responsibility to put pressure on our respective governments and to conduct a thorough inquiry at the eu level. member states’ agencies should not have been in the business of kidnapping and ‘rendering’ and i urge my colleagues from countries like poland, romania, lithuania and others to press for judicial inquiries, as we need a full explanation of what happened in our name on our soil.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, whatever our views on the policies of the turkish government, we must acknowledge turkey’s importance as a country. but ever since acquiring eu candidate status in 2005, the accession process was always going to be a challenging one for such a large, relatively poor country, with a very different heritage from western europe’s. so far, only one chapter of 33 has been opened and closed, as turkey still refuses to recognise the republic of cyprus. the decline of secular turkey and the rise to power of the islamist akp has posed new challenges as president erdoğan’s increasingly erratic authoritarian approach takes on the students, the army, journalists and now the rival islamist group, the gülenists, who have dared challenge the corruption and obstruction of justice in that country. erdoğan has also backtracked on the pkk ceasefire negotiations, and only under huge nato pressure has he finally agreed to allow support for beleaguered kurdish forces in kobani, as he sees brutal isis as less of a threat to turkish interests than the secular pkk. there has also been western alarm about turkey’s alleged support to ihadists in egypt, iraq and syria, but despite all this, we all still hope that turkey may still change course towards a more western path it once held.
mr president, nobody is safe in turkey right now. those are the words of a human rights defender speaking to me on the phone earlier from the front line in turkey. why are they not safe? as federica mogherini and commissioner hahn said in their joint statements, the police raids and arrests of a number of journalists and media representatives in turkey today are incompatible with freedom of the media, which is a core principle of democracy. human rights activists, ordinary journalists and people opposing the government are deeply worried by a pattern of curtailment of media freedoms and questions being raised about the independence of the judiciary. this week’s wave of harassment, under accusations of founding a terror organisation seeking to overthrow the government, indicates the problems with turkey’s broad based anti-terrorism law, as these accusations are some of the most serious charges which can be levelled under the country’s penal code. human rights activists in turkey have told me that those arrested are not clear of what charges they are being arrested under; they are being arrested and detained, and i quote: ‘without concrete evidence, under vague charges and without a clear indictment’. this is clearly in contravention of the european convention, articles 5 and 6: the right to liberty and to a fair trial. i appreciate that volkan bozkır, the minister of eu affairs, provided assurances to the commission – as he has done to us – that turkey seeks to uphold the rule of law. it is right that turkey, with its geographical and political role in the on-going fight against terrorism, has anti-terrorism legislation. however, if it is correct – as widely reported – that members of the opposition and journalists are getting arrested and having to prove their innocence while prosecutors fail to provide evidence of any criminal activity, then turkey may be talking about the rule of law, but failing to uphold it in practice. finally, mr president, for those who have queued up to use this yet again to make threats about the accession process, the lesson in this for me is more engagement with turkey not less. let us have our resolution in january condemning, in strong terms, the treatment of journalists, but let our rapporteur do her job in committee to draw up a resolution in the interests of turkey as a country and of the turkish people. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – richard howitt, you have a reputation of being a strong friend of turkey – indeed you founded the friends of turkey in the previous parliament. of course, it is interesting to me to hear what you have to say today, in a very critical tone, on the subject of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in turkey. would you join me in agreeing that if these breaches persist, we should be in this parliament reviewing the hundreds of millions of euros of taxpayers’ money from the european union going towards epa funding for turkey? otherwise, what sanctions do we have against a candidate country undergoing the accession process?
blue-card answer to two questions. – mr fountoulis, i absolutely agree that all breaches of human rights must be condemned equally and fairly and objectively, but what worried me about this debate is that i have heard people who are all too willing to queue up to criticise turkey but who then, in relation to other countries in other situations, have prejudices which lead them to fail to do so. let us be consistent ourselves in upholding human rights. to my friend mr tannock, other than wishing him happy christmas, i think it is fair to say that whilst i am a friend of turkey – and i am happy to be described as such, i love the country, i want it to join the european union – that is why i do not like what i see there today. it is fair to say that he has a different point of view and he would probably have that point of view irrespective of what has happened over the weekend. i was talking to commissioner hahn today and said to him that we do not want pre-emptive action in relation to accession, and commissioner hahn told me that he was of a similar mind. let us condemn what is happening in turkey, but then let us reflect on how we can best help the situation there.
mr president, i add my voice of support to the widespread condemnation of the attitude of turkey towards imprisoning journalists and, like many, abhor this blatant attempt to curb freedom of expression. president and his akp party, one of whose members recently called for a ban on women being able to laugh in the street are, of course, allied to the british conservatives. is undermining the secular identity of the turkish state to the extent that kemal atatürk must now be turning in his grave. however, what i find really confusing is the fact that in my country it is only ukip that opposes turkish entry into the eu. the idea that the free movement of 83 million turkish citizens will not impact on an already pestiferous immigration debate in my country is clearly lost on the british conservative, labour and liberal democratic parties. eu membership would allow unemployed people in turkey to travel freely to and seek work in any other member state. with an official figure of 2.98 million unemployed, unofficial estimates as high as 5.5 million, any flow of migration would inevitably be towards job-creating economies such as the uk. turkey is currently home to some 1.6 million refugees – many from syria and iraq. as a new member state she might well become a new gateway to europe for an unprecedented number of refugees fleeing conflict in the middle east. as a member state there would be very little possibility of stopping these refugees from moving freely within a passportless europe. the prime minister’s pledge on turkey joining the eu quite frankly needs stopping. it only leaves me to wish my colleagues, irrespective of our differences, a happy hanukkah and a merry christmas and a happy new year.
blue-card question. – mr preda, i am obliged to you for accepting my blue card question. you raise a very important point. there is clearly a pattern of rhetoric coming from some of our far-right extremist groups which is anti-european in the first instance. they then go on to the russian media and say anti-nato things, even speaking against their own member states, and then it moves on to becoming pro-putin. we clearly have a pattern. then, at the end of that course of action, you see money changing hands from russia across to these groups. there is not just one party leader who has done that – there is more than one in this house. should we not now be carrying out investigations?
mr president, while the ecr deeply regrets russia’s continued occupation of georgian territory, condemns the numerous cases of prosecution of former government members, and has concerns about selective justice – particularly against the former president – it has nevertheless been an exciting year in terms of closer eastern partnership relations between the eu and georgia. we, as a group, fully support and welcome the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement and the association agreement, as it provides for georgia’s political association with the european union in addition to the country’s economic integration into the world’s largest economic market. by signing the agreement, georgia has assumed treaty obligations to consolidate the rule of law, including independence of its judiciary, to pursue legislative reforms, to strengthen respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms, and to reinforce democratic institutions. a further aspect of the agreement is that it will substantially enhance the political dialogue between georgia and the eu, increase the involvement of civil society and promote tolerance for its minorities. far from being merely a set of rules and regulations, this really is a good trade agreement as it brings georgia closer to the european union and helps it resist russian revanchist pressures.
mr president, it has been a long and complex day, but this has been an extremely significant debate and sets the tone for a new chapter in eu-georgia relations. it is clear that the deep and comprehensive free trade area will have a long-term beneficial effect on georgia’s economy and its citizens and their lives. already nearly one-third of trade in georgia is with us in europe. that will massively increase following this agreement. i want also to give credit for the reforms that have started there. i met the chair of the foreign affairs committee of the georgian parliament today and was able to celebrate with him some important steps towards – if i may say so – social democracy, under the lead of the current government, the georgian dream coalition, including a labour code and anti-discrimination law and reform of the prison system. he told me, and asked me to tell the house, that this agreement is about us dealing with the country of georgia and not being involved with, or creating any internal differences between, individual political parties within georgia. this parliament has my own group’s commitment on that. potential worries remain, of course, in particular in relation to the areas of justice and concerns about selective justice. clearly there must be avoidance of using the judicial system in any sort of political way. let me finish by saying that croatia is the tenth member state to have ratified the agreement, but my country has not. i hope my country will get rid of its mealy-mouthed approach and ratify as quickly as possible.
mr president, as chair of the south caucasus delegation, i am particularly pleased to see that the rapporteur has set out in the report, in very clear terms, georgia’s assured european future. georgians must know that they can be assured of our european solidarity. the extension of our monitoring mission is just one indication of that. the georgian government has a clearly signposted road ahead. now it is time to implement the many reforms envisaged by the association agreement. we recognise the real political challenges these changes present, but they must be delivered. monitoring implementation of the association agreement, and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement, sits of course with the joint parliamentary committee. this parliamentary scrutiny of our joint agenda should remain always constructive and ready to adapt to any further future challenges posed by the russian federation. i hope tomorrow we have a decisive and clear vote that sets out the entirety of this parliament’s position in terms of georgia. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr karim, your party leader, the british prime minister, has called for a european union to stretch from the atlantic to the urals. this, he said, is his dream. obviously we are now talking about georgia. how far to the east do you see the prime minister's wish going?
blue-card answer. – a european union which is based upon our values is a european union which will serve not only the people of europe, but also the world. the fact that we – my country and my government – certainly have a vision of a european union which is strong and united and is made up of countries that share our values, is one that this parliament can stand united behind, so i endorse my prime minister’s position on that.
mr president, in a letter from the georgian prime minister this week mr garibashvili referred to our shared values. these shared values extend so much further than simply trade. i welcome the association agreement and the continuing positive relationship between georgia and the eu, a relationship that aims to improve peopleʼs lives in both communities. through the wider cooperation framework of the association agreement we need to work together with the georgian government to develop its social model. the government is already doing great work to engage its citizens and civil society in the democratic process and in delivering social policy, a good example being the recent anti-discrimination law. it is only the georgian government that can ultimately deliver a deeper social model, but i look forward to working with them to provide the support needed to deliver on those shared values.
blue-card question. – i heard your comments with regard to dictatorships. do you share my disgust and dismay that one of the root causes, one of the terrible dictatorships, was in ethiopia – the derg – and yet former president mengistu, at the age of 77, lives in political luxury, having claimed asylum in zimbabwe. would you join me in condemnation of president mugabe and join my call to have mengistu extradited back to ethiopia where, of course, he has been convicted of crimes of genocide?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, we all want to help desperate and brave people escape the terror of war, conflict and extreme poverty, but any such help must be workable, practical and in everyone’s best interests, and must not encourage a bad situation to get worse. we must address the causes of migration if we are to dissuade people from trying to cross the mediterranean in small boats, and this is what both the international community and nation states are failing to do. not content with the free movement of half a billion people, the european union now wishes to take control of refugee policy. there is a desperate issue of 4.3 million internally-displaced people in sudan, south sudan, somalia, eritrea, ethiopia, kenya and uganda. instead of extending eu powers into refugee policy, we should consider the impact of other eu policies on africa. how about the common agricultural policy? this is not only a waste for british tax payers, but also dumps over-subsidised food into african economies, increasing unemployment and poverty. or fishing? eu policy has destroyed fish stocks off the coast of somalia, ruining people’s livelihoods and driving them into poverty or piracy. then there is the issue of trade. why do we not stop imposing grossly high trade barriers, thus allowing all to benefit from the increased economic activity and cheaper food prices? the eu has inflicted untold damage on the horn of africa, which only asked to be treated with dignity and respect. we must lift the barriers imposed by the eu and address the root causes of migration. then there is the question of why the international community continues to oppose the recognition of somaliland. surely, now, what the horn of africa needs is a strong, stable and friendly state, capable of providing for its own citizens and of trading its way in the wider world. only by highlighting and encouraging the success story of somaliland can we set an example of hope for this troubled region. in this season of goodwill, why not give out presents? give the horn of africa hope and it can begin to help itself.
blue-card question. – does my colleague share my passion for an independent somaliland to be recognised across the united nations and by the international community, and does he agree with me that south sudan, which is of course the newest country recognised by the united nations, was probably a less likely and less viable option for recognition? does he share my support for recognition of somaliland in the international community?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to urge the obama administration to open a dialogue with venezuela, just as it has in the case of cuba. let us remove the excuses and alibis of the regime in venezuela, which they use to curtail the freedom of the press, rig elections, prevent true democracy and carry out other repressions. venezuela has to realise that it can no longer sustain the economy because, world-wide, the price of oil is in free-fall. it is expecting 60% inflation this year. it can no longer afford the generous welfare benefits it has promised its citizens. the us has to realise, as it has done with cuba, that it cannot – and must not – suppress the aspirations of another sovereign state. i wish to say merry christmas and happy new year to all the members here.
mr president, i had hoped to speak to highlight the case of maría corina machado today, but i now focus on the comments made by the venezuelan ambassador at the mercosur delegation yesterday where he stated that leopoldo lópez was guilty of a range of offences and then said he would receive a fair trial. the absurdity of that, the sign that the chance for a fair trial is fading away in venezuela, was crystal clear. the regime was exposed from its own lips, and the antics of this regime, the ‘vos no sos’ and talking to little birds, would be comic were it not for the serious human rights abuses and impoverishment of its people that are taking place. as for the ludicrous comments made by the far left here today about respect and neo-colonialism, i simply have to say this: shame on you for those shameful comments.
author. - mr president, the ecr group calls for the sudanese authorities to release dr amin mekki medani immediately. his arrest was not only arbitrary but his detention is considered a reprisal in order to sanction and stop his legitimate human rights activities. following his arrest shortly after he returned from addis, serious concerns were raised for his safety. he is 76 years old, suffers from high blood pressure and diabetes and has been denied the right to take his medication by the security services. the sudanese authorities, led by the indicted war criminal president omar al-bashir, have acted deplorably in this case. furthermore, in addition for calling for dr medani’s immediate release, my group urges the authorities to put an end to all acts of harassment and intimidation against human rights defenders in general and, lastly, to comply with the un declaration on human rights defenders and all regional and international human rights instruments ratified by sudan.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution as i oppose the politicisation of trade. i believe that genuine free trade is the only way to bring the third world out of poverty, and support the concept of ‘trade, not aid’.
in writing. — i believe very strongly in free trade, not aid, as the best way to help out developing nations and their people. the eu on the other hand will impose restrictive conditions on the philippines, and basically politicise trade. all over the world, nations are turning to china, as they do not place burdensome restrictions on them, as the eu does. free trade is just that; ‘free’ without all of these restrictions weighted in the favour of the eu. i also do not agree that the eu has the right to create free trade deals for the british people – that is the job of parliament (westminster).
in writing. - i voted against this motion for resolution because the philippines worked hard to meet the revised, more stringent gsp regulation and it succeeded in fulfilling all criteria what message are we sending if we now start adding criteria beyond those set out in the gsp to the list of requirements, like the illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing regulation? sustainable fishery is crucial, but changing the wording of a contract after it has already been signed is something credible partners simply do not do. we also need to be consistent: panama also had a yellow card under the iuu regulation but was still approved for gsp+. when i visited philippines in september, i was able to see through the many bilateral meetings i had that the aquino government is on the right track. but much work remains to be done, and the opportunity offered by gsp+ to help bring inclusive growth in the philippines is much needed.
in writing. — i voted against this resolution which sought to block the philippines receiving the preferential trading scheme gsp+. this scheme is for vulnerable countries which sign, ratify and commit to implementing the 27 core ilo conventions on labour, environmental and human rights standards. the philippines has done this and now serious scrutiny and monitoring will begin by the commission and parliament. i objected to the resolution because, although there are concerns about illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in the philippines, this should be addressed separately. if their current ‘yellow’ card became ‘red’, fish imports to the eu will be blocked. but the technical and non-political criteria for gsp+ is within wto rules and is the beginning of the process of monitoring, not the end.
in writing. — i voted with the majority against the motion for a resolution on generalised tariff preferences. the generalised system of preferences consists of a general arrangement and two special arrangements, including the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), charging no duties on imports from beneficiaries for 66 % of all eu tariff lines.
in writing. - this motion seeks ‘no objection’ to a delegated act which calculates annual contributions from financial institutions to their national resolution authority’s resolution financing arrangements; and sets penalties for late payment. accordingly, i voted against it.
in writing. — i voted in favour of a motion for a resolution on financing arrangements. article 130 of directive (eu) no 59/2014 (the brrd directive) requires member states to apply the national measures necessary to comply with that directive from 1 january 2015. in order to apply the directive, member states must ensure that contributions are raised at least annually from the relevant credit institutions and investment firms (‘the institutions’) authorised in their territory.
madam president, we should not allow the immediacy of the crisis in ukraine to blind us to older instances of putinite revanchism. here is a situation where russia continues to occupy part of a sovereign neighbouring country, but this is not just about territory and it is not just about annexations. something bigger is in the balance. if i can borrow a 19th century russian analogy, this is a conflict that we have seen throughout the former soviet union between what we might call slavophiles and westernisers, between those who choose democracy and those who choose the führerprinzip, between those who want a liberal society and those who want an autocratic society. essentially it is about the rule of law. it is about not having governments that get to make up the rules as they go along without there being any independent authority. of course, it is for the people of georgia – as it is for the people of ukraine and every other country – to make their decision, but if they choose the direction of western liberal values, then we have a duty to support them. by ‘we’ i do not just mean the european union, i mean the entire euro-atlantic community. force of arms should never be allowed to trump force of argument..
madam president, once again this chamber has voted for a motion that will lead to increased neo-colonialism of the european union and its supporters of imperialism in this chamber. the consequences of this at christmas would be laughable if it were not serious. in my constituency of the north-west there is a town called stockport. thousands of people this christmas will be struggling to eat and heat their homes; they will be seeking food from food banks. this house today has voted to take money from the european union and give it to dictators and bureaucrats in georgia through agreements. you are taking money and food from the mouths of my constituents to give it to the greedy in georgia. i opposed this motion along with ukip, my party, because we do not believe in eu imperialism; we do not believe that you can take money from the poor to give to the rich; we do not believe that the people of stockport should have a poor christmas just because the georgian rich want a rich christmas.
in writing. - conclusion of the association agreement with georgia report: andrejs mamikins (a8-0042/2014). this association agreement between the eu and georgia refers to the free trade agreement between the eu and georgia as one of the most ambitious ftas that the eu has negotiated with a third country. it talks about a deep and comprehensive fta, modernising the country’s economy – which concerns privatisation and liberalisation – and commends georgia for undertaking deep and difficult economic reforms. in the irish experience these ‘reforms’ tend to make the rich richer and the vast majority of the people poorer. some of the references to russia are not helpful, given the on-going tensions in the region. integration into nato is not likely to ease tensions. for these reasons i voted against this motion.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal as this is an extension of eu influence in eastern europe, which only exacerbates the current political tensions with the russian federation. i believe the eu needs to stop building its own, new empire. least of all, on the russian border.
in writing. — the agreement is a very important step forward in our relations with georgia. it must now be implemented in full so that the benefits and advantages of the agreement are felt by the people.
in writing. — i believe that this non-legislative resolution welcomes the signature of the association agreement which marks a positive step forward in eu-georgia relations. i also support judicial reforms in georgia to make sure they comply with european standards as opposed to condemning them.
in writing. — thanks to today’s vote, the motion for a non-legislative resolution on the conclusion of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and georgia has been approved by members. the signature of the association agreement constitutes a significant step forward in eu-georgia relations and embodies a commitment to the path of political association and economic integration. the ratification of the agreement is not the final goal in itself and full implementation in as short a timeframe as possible is key.
madam president, i have already expressed my position, so i will only say one thing. it is good that this association agreement does not only deal with economic issues, does not only deal with customs issues and, say, free trade, but also deals with the very building of the rule of law in georgia, that is, the strengthening of certain legal sectors, such as the issue of public procurement. i think that's very important. as a former minister of justice in the czech republic, i know that accession to europe should not only be an economic issue, but also a non-economic issue, and that is first and foremost the development of the rule of law. so i am glad that these issues are also addressed in this agreement, which is why i supported it.
madam president, i voted against the association agreement with georgia. the eu empire-building and meddling in the former soviet union has triggered the crisis in the ukraine. not content with this, the eu is meddling in georgia with this association agreement. georgia, as recently as 2008, was at war with russia. ukip feels that the eu is stoking the flame of conflict yet again. with the fall of oil prices, and consequently the rouble, russia and its leadership are in a fragile state of mind so it is extremely unwise to provoke mr putin who, despite his economic reverses, has more tank divisions than the european union which has exactly none. baroness ashton, a dangerous amateur eu foreign minister, or alleged foreign minister, wished to cast the shadow of war across europe, and this was before the rouble fell. we do not want 1914 to be repeated in 2014 through eu empire-building. this is a very dangerous and foolish move to provoke the russian bear.
in writing. - this is a vote on consent for the association agreement between the eu and georgia. if georgia wants to enter into an aa with the eu then it is their sovereign right to do so. however, i believe agreement is likely to be to the detriment of the people of georgia and will be unhelpful in de-escalating tensions in the region. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal as this is an extension of eu influence in eastern europe, which only exacerbates the current political tensions with the russian federation. i believe the eu needs to stop building its own, new empire. least of all, on the russian border.
in writing. — the eu’s meddling in the former soviet union has triggered crisis in the ukraine. not content with this, the eu is meddling in georgia, a country that as recently as 2008 was at war with russia. we feel the eu is stoking the flame of conflict and mistrust this agreement. an association agreement is a halfway house to full eu membership. we can see where this is going, and so can russia. poking the russian bear is not a good idea. especially when the eu does not as yet have an army.
in writing. — i am pleased that parliament ratified the eu-georgia association agreement. this deal will form the backbone of strengthened political association and economic integration between the eu and georgia and help the country to develop further, economically and socially, creating new opportunities and decent work for all.
in writing. — reason for voting against: the eu meddling in the former soviet union has triggered the crisis in ukraine. not content with this, the eu is meddling in georgia, a country that as recently as 2008 was at war with russia. we feel the eu is stoking the flame of conflict and mistrust with this agreement.
in writing. — thanks to today’s vote, the motion for a non-legislative resolution on the conclusion of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and georgia has been approved by members. the signature of the association agreement constitutes a significant step forward in eu-georgia relations and embodies a commitment to the path of political association and economic integration. the ratification of the agreement is not the final goal in itself and full implementation in as short a timeframe as possible is key.
