the question i want to raise, mr president, is, i think, about the role and the prestige of the european parliament. at the opening ceremony of the greek presidency last wednesday in athens, there were various speeches at this presidency ceremony, there was a speech by mr van rompuy, there was a speech by mr barroso, but there was no speech, no intervention, no position, no representation from the european parliament. and the question, and the observation, is: is that what the protocol says, and will we follow it in future ceremonies that are both symbolic and substantive? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that's another matter for discussion. you said you took responsibility. the question is how the european parliament is represented at these events during each country's presidency. please give me an answer if i'm wrong.
it was more or less a statement, but you can still reply.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the report by chris davies, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the 2013 implementation report: 'development and application of carbon capture and storage technology in europe' (2013/2079 (ini)) (a7-0430/2013).
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i should be very clear that when we talk about wildlife and crime, we are talking about organised crime and about one of the major forms of criminal activity, be it in terms of volume or in terms of consequences. these are unquestionable facts and the situation is worsening, and that is why today’s discussion is absolutely necessary and timely. there are many areas of direct relevance for the european union: biodiversity, of course, but also governance, development, international trade, transnational crime, peace and stability in certain regions, and so on. i mentioned some of them in my introductory speech. this is a problem typically linked to the globalisation of the economy and the globalisation of trade, and it needs a global response. the european union definitely has an interest in stepping up action to tackle it and in shaping the global response and, if i am frank, i am happy to see that the united states too is stepping up these types of activity. however, we should not underestimate what we are doing ourselves: preparing the communication, on which i am working together with commissioner malmström and which will be published in a month’s time; organising the conference i have mentioned; and preparing the consultation process. we are by no means inactive; on the contrary, as i mentioned, as recently as december a special new programme was announced, with financing from the european development fund, to try to address this issue. collectively, as the union, and individually in our own countries, we are among the leaders in the international community’s efforts against wildlife trafficking. i also mentioned that i am working with commissioner piebalgs, and i will continue to work with him to make sure this issue is properly taken into account, especially when we discuss the geographical allocation of funding. there are other activities too. for example, we systematically raise the question in our political and trade bilateral-relations contacts with a number of key countries, including china, vietnam and thailand. it is an area which we discuss with our us counterparts in the framework of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, and we expect it will also be an important topic at the forthcoming meeting between the european union and the african union in april 2014. so yes, it is on our agenda. it is at the top of the political agenda, where it deserves to be, and with today’s discussion it is getting a further push. the forthcoming communication will serve to identify any gaps which need to be filled and to indicate whether there is added value in bringing the different measures under the umbrella of a single strategy or action plan, and raising their profile beyond traditional environmental circles. maybe i should also mention that the eu is the biggest donor to the international consortium on combating wildlife crime, which brings together interpol, cites, the world customs organisation, the un office on drugs and crime and the world bank. we are contributing approximately eur 1.7 million on a three-year basis. so, yes, we are aware of the problem and we are trying to tackle it. i will now turn to some specific questions which you raised. on hunting trophies, the commission is in the process of amending the rules which govern the importation into the european union of hunting trophies of some species – for example, lions – where hunting trophies might represent a threat to their sustainability, given the level of imports in freight. the same is true for elephants and rhinos, so the commission will soon propose an amendment to the regulation for those species. with this change, the authorities in charge of implementing cites in our member states will have to check whether an import is sustainable before authorising it. if they consider that this is not the case, no import permit will be delivered and the import will not take place. regarding support for the detection of online trade, eu enforcement officers are already coordinating action to improve the investigation of trafficking, including internet trade. the consultation process will address this and will identify whether additional steps are needed. finally, concerning data, enforcement groups meet twice a year and, yes, we collect data from member states on enforcement, prosecutions and so on. we have an annual reporting process, so we are not starting from scratch. we are pretty busy, but it is clear that criminal activity in this area is increasing and that it warrants more of our attention as well as new, innovative methods. we will not find the answer only from an environmental angle: that is absolutely clear, because we are talking about a major form of organised crime. this is why i am working together with my colleagues, commissioners malmström, georgieva, piebalgs and de gucht, and with baroness ashton: we are working together because there is no other way to find an effective solution to these criminal activities. thank you for the debate today and for the attention you are giving to this terrible problem.
mr president, the wrong policy pursued by the troika and the greek governments and the collapse of the economy have increased the number of uninsured citizens. today, the uninsured greek citizens, not counting migrants and asylum seekers, number three million, almost 30% of the population. this is not in keeping with the european social model and european values, that is to say, losing access to health services to people, mainly self-employed people, who for years or decades have paid their insurance contributions regularly and who are now suddenly thrown to the margins because of the crisis because they are unable to pay. many citizens - when they have a problem - no longer go to doctors on time, do not buy medicines, and even more so, those who have health problems have difficulty in getting continuous treatment. the european commission must now work with the social and professional bodies to find a solution to ensure that all citizens have access to health services, whether they are unemployed or unable to pay their social security contributions.
mr president, the us and its allies have recently been increasingly blackmailing the palestinian authority into accepting the israeli government's onerous terms at the expense of the palestinian people. it is clear that the negotiations cannot have any real content if israel does not first stop its settlements in the occupied palestinian territories and proceed with the immediate demolition of the 'wall of ashes'. a just and lasting solution to the palestinian problem cannot be achieved within the framework of the imperialist plans promoted by the usa, the eu and nato. these forces are reinforcing israeli intolerance against the palestinian people and other peoples. the kke supports the struggle of the palestinian people against the israeli occupation for an independent, viable, sovereign palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital, for the immediate release of all palestinian political prisoners in israeli prisons, for the lifting of all blockades of palestinians in the west bank and the gaza strip.
mr president, the development of a strategy and action plan for research and innovation in the next programming period is a priority for funding from the european regional development fund, but at the same time a very large source of opportunities. but how will this strategy be shaped? it must be shaped through a dialogue with the social partners in each region, there must be coordination between the regions and the member states, but also an exchange of information and best practice between the regions in order to close the gap that is important between the different regions today. the european commission must also step up these efforts and, of course, the regions must be more closely involved in the seville platform. a good way of strengthening regional action is to place great emphasis on the involvement of young researchers, and also students, in research and innovation efforts, so that they can be a bridge to the future and promote new ideas for regional development.
in writing. the eu in the new programming period (2014-2020) is putting a strong emphasis on promoting research and innovation. the horizon programme is the cornerstone of the european strategy to improve europe's competitiveness, but individual structural funds can also be used to this end. in practice, however, this dual approach raises questions about the coordination of the approaches of the structural funds and horizon 2020 as they have a completely different structure and structure. for this reason, the financial provisions provide inter alia that a project may, under certain conditions, be supported by more than one fund. the report also goes one step further and, although i voted in favour of it, it recognises and promotes the support of local authorities and regions by providing advice to avoid confusion which would deprive valuable resources for development and support for employment in local communities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it argues that intelligent specialisation means that, when developing strategies for intelligent regional innovation, regions should prioritise the funding of research, development and innovation in accordance with their comparative advantages. there should also be a close link between research and higher education institutions, enterprises (especially smes) and local and regional administrations. this should be a two-way process, taking into account new developments in innovation and exploiting the potential synergies of different funding options at local, regional, national and international level. in addition, the proposal to create a european commission guide to the question of financing a project from different sources is considered interesting. it should be stressed that the timing of the report is important, as the regions are in the process of preparing their programmes, including research, development and innovation strategies, for the 2014-2020 programming period. the report can therefore in its own way contribute to these efforts.
in writing. the report, which i supported, does not only deal with food safety and consumer interests, which are at the heart of the european parliament's concerns. the focus this time is on the issue of food fraud as a result of false labelling and other fraud cases that have affected the eu food chain. road salt used in food and false labelling of organic products are just two of the key examples for which the report proposes to further investigate the issue of food fraud, concluding, inter alia, on the need to define what constitutes food fraud, to strengthen the role of the wto in identifying cases of food fraud, to increase cooperation between member states through europol and to impose sanctions at least double the amount of the economic benefit sought through food fraud.
in writing. this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, focuses on the readiness of the member states for the next period of funding for cohesion policy. the information available to the european parliament shows that the member states are not at a similar stage of preparation. changes in the preparation of the operational programmes by the member states compared to the previous funding period, such as structural changes in the operational programmes, play an important role in this. however, for better planning and therefore for more efficient use of european resources it is important for greece as well to attempt a detailed examination and evaluation of successful and failed efforts of the 2007-2013 programming period, in order to avoid repeating mistakes and to eliminate those administrative or non-administrative obstacles that led to insufficient use of resources from the european structural funds. it is also noted that some member states are already undertaking this form of self-assessment in total, making it much easier to prepare their strategy for the new programming period.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr derek vaughan, which examines whether the member states are prepared for the new period of cohesion policy. for a number of reasons, such as the specificities of the member states and the situation prevailing in the context of the current economic situation, member states are at very different stages in the process of preparing partnership agreements and operational programmes. for this reason, it is considered particularly useful to cooperate and exchange best practices among them. the european parliament has worked hard to ensure that the negotiations with the council on the cohesion legislative package and the mff were concluded in time to shape the regulatory framework and determine the funding for this policy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency') is based on the principle of equal treatment for all medicinal products for human use. it is now up to the member states, in close cooperation with local and regional actors, to finalise the drafting of the agreements to enable the programmes to be implemented, which will contribute to the member states' efforts at economic recovery and development.
madam president, we agree with julie girling on many issues, but we usually have different positions on gmo issues, and this is a gmo issue. what we have in front of us is the choice between, on the one hand, a commission proposal which in practice does not respect the decision of the european court of justice and does not allow for labelling of gmo honey and, on the other, a proposal which allows us to have labelling to say whether the honey is produced by bees which have collected pollen from gm crops. it is very simple: if we vote for the commission proposal, which is also julie girling’s proposal, we are voting in favour of not having gm labelling for honey which is produced by bees that live in the middle of miles and miles of gm cultivation. if we vote for what mr tabajdi is proposing – the s&d’s proposal – we are voting for a clear labelling procedure for honey which is produced by bees that have used gm crops to collect their pollen. so the choice is very clear. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for the question. it is very clear, and i agree with mr peterle, that we need to have labelling. if we need to name something as an ingredient in order to have gm labelling and to be able to inform citizens about what they are eating, let us do it. this is not about ingredients or natural constituents, it is actually about labelling. do you yourself agree that we need to label gm honey?
madam president, when the european commission announced last september its approval of the amendment to the honey directive to clarify the true nature of pollen as a natural ingredient, it assured us that the proposed amendment would not affect the european court of justice's conclusion on pollen as regards the application of the legislation on genetically modified organisms to food. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. since honey is a natural product, it does not need to be accompanied by a list of ingredients. however, it is considered necessary that honey, as well as other foodstuffs or food supplements containing pollen derived from genetically modified crops, should be labelled as containing ingredients produced from genetically modified organisms. we also believe that the european commission should not be given the power to amend the technical characteristics relating to the names, descriptions of products, their definitions and the criteria for their composition by means of delegated acts. the commission's proposal for a regulation on genetically modified organisms, which is based on the principle of free choice for consumers, coexistence and zero tolerance, is designed to restore legal certainty for honey producers and beekeepers, as well as for importers and, of course, first and foremost, for consumers.
blue-card question. – i would like to ask you whether you know that, under this proposal, any beekeeper whose hives are at a distance of 10 kilometres or more from any gm cultivation will not be required to bear any cost of controls. these controls will entail a cost only for beekeepers who have hives within or very close to gm cultivations.
in writing. hercule iii is the programme established to provide technical equipment and training to increase efficiency in the fight against fraud, corruption and other illegal activities (such as smuggling, counterfeiting) which are also detrimental to the eu budget. in the final compromise text, the cor managed to include some of the most fundamental issues it supported, such as the coordination of the programme at eu level, the establishment of detailed performance indicators to measure the specific objectives and the preparation of a more detailed annual work programme and an interim report, and a thorough final evaluation of the programme's achievements and added value. it is also of particular importance that the co-financing rate be set at 80% and that it be increased to 90% in the event that the member states are exposed to a high risk affecting the protection of the financial interests of the union. in the present period of budgetary constraints and the rationalisation of public finances, both at national and european level, it is necessary to make full use of existing union funding. we must therefore safeguard the union's financial interests by ensuring that not a single euro is lost to illegal activities.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the european commission, today's first visit by the greek presidency to the european parliament has given us the opportunity to reflect and to make practical proposals. i am glad that the president of the european commission made the necessary references to greece, i am glad that he recalled the original wrong approach to the greek problem, and i am also glad that all those who spoke referred - even if it was in a negative way - to the value of the greek presence within the european union. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. however, it cannot go back, nor re-nationalize its policies, as i heard earlier from mr farage. if someone wants to leave the european union, it is the people who decide that, and in greece the greek people, in their great majority, consider that their country is inextricably linked to the development of this europe which they want to see constantly being integrated. the greek presidency's dossier is very interesting and important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the banking union proposed by the european commission and the view expressed by the european parliament is, of course, the best solution. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the council will take a decision on the matter. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the core of the development of the european union, mr president, and the ideas that have shaped it since 1947, when all the resistance movements of europe gathered in the hague to proclaim the desire of the european peoples for peace and prosperity, have since then included certain constants in the institutional system. the institutional system therefore says that today greece, despite the fact that it has been and is going through a serious economic crisis and its people are forced to make very serious sacrifices, which are already having an effect, holds the six-month presidency of the european union. what does that mean ? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote.
the greek presidency is faced with a very great challenge, mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen. firstly, in six months, which are actually three months, to do the maximum work for the benefit of the european citizens as we go to the european elections. mr president, the socialists of europe, the socialists of greece, which is pasok, will be with you. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i will be with you to get the banking union on the right track so that depositors can regain their confidence and smes can finally get financing. we will be at your side to manage together, with a positive stamp, the migratory flows. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will be at your side to promote a maritime policy that covers everything from the environment to the management of marine areas. but mr prime minister, we, the socialists of europe, we, the greek socialists of pasok, who are part of the coalition government of which you are prime minister, will be against you when social cohesion is not taken into account. when man and his rights are not taken into account. mr president, we will support you in the effort we believe will be made to create in europe for future generations, in addition to the surplus which we have achieved with dramatic sacrifices on the part of the greek people, a surplus of solidarity, a surplus of social cohesion, a surplus in support of human rights, a surplus of jobs, a surplus of citizens' confidence in the european community.
madam president, mr prime minister, i welcome you to the european parliament. i listened carefully to your speech. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. we saw this dramatically in 2010 when, in the wake of the greek debt crisis, a huge problem that the european union had for decades came to the surface. the european union has been able to develop all the economic and social aspects of its society as a result of this. and then, mr prime minister, no presidency, no european commission, no central bank was prepared to deal with this situation. and then and now, mr prime minister, they are unable to deal with the banking crisis, the sovereign debt crisis, the recession, unemployment. they are implementing policies that are detrimental to the workers, they are implementing extremist, neoliberal policies, mr barroso. the day before yesterday, mr prime minister, the vice-president of the european commission, mr rehn, said that if the greek debt were recapitalized and restructured in 2010, then the crisis would spread to other countries, and through the banking sector, and therefore we would have more problems. it's the great truth, it's the great confession. why would you do that? because the greek economy, the greek people, were sacrificed to save the european banks and the euro. to save a rotten financial system that operated and operates like a casino. the truth is, mr prime minister, that the european union did not save greece from bankruptcy. the truth is that we were pushed in this direction by certain political leaders who voted and accepted the troika with the economic disasters to be paid for by the greek people who took on the burden of the debt. so it is not the european union that saved greece. it is the slaughter of greece, it is the sacrifice of the countries of europe in order to be able to maintain the privileges of the political and economic elites responsible for this situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the critical point is not that you cannot change an agenda that has been prepared and imposed by the bureaucracy in brussels. it depends on whether you can tell certain truths, whether you can say that the path the european union has taken is wrong, the path of devaluation, unemployment, recession, selling out of countries, whether you can finally say, mr prime minister - which i was expecting to hear - that they can no longer play with the country's fortune and dignity and consider greece a 'black sheep'.
madam president, mr prime minister, you are a bold european politician and this is proved by the fact that you are boldly, and ignoring the political risk, governing greece. the criticism you have received from various politicians in the european parliament - do not be offended - we do not know how much better they would have done your job if they had been in your place. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. the average european citizen does not see the european union in terms of major projects. he sees europe from the vantage point of his own personal perspective. and when he is unemployed and has an uncertain and insecure future ahead of him, he is not interested in the grand plans for european development. the idea of europe, ladies and gentlemen, will be upgraded when unemployment is reduced and when the well-being of the european citizen is increased. mr president, you have a personal, bitter experience of investments in greece, which also suffer from the problem of brussels' heavy bureaucracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to put forward proposals for revisions of regulations, regulations and legislative ideologies which have made europe prohibitive to investment. the union has entered a transition without defining where it is going, at least as far as the development side is concerned. we need urgently, now, in these months, the adoption of radical incentives for the investor in europe.
the presidency must achieve its objective of a more united, democratic and social europe, as well as a more european greece. europe is our home and we want to change it and make it better, not tear it down. but europe has done too little and been too hesitant in dealing with the crisis, resulting in euroscepticism in many countries. the european union must now act to win back the hearts and minds of its citizens. the debate must be about the lives of citizens, not about numbers. let's be honest with each other. surplus can be had if you don't spend money out of your pocket on health, on education, on your diet, on housing, but that's not sustainable. so we have to look beyond the numbers and talk about what life is like for citizens today. we must talk about how to tackle unemployment with action when there are one and a half million unemployed in greece, six million unemployed young people in europe, thirty million poor people in europe. the people will not be moved by words and ideas. we must turn words into deeds, because it is tragic that today in one european country there are three million citizens who have no access to the health system, who are uninsured and at the same time lose access to the health system. that's 30% of the population. this is a humanitarian disaster that will also cause huge costs to the health system. the greek presidency must bring health issues to the centre of the debate, because they concern other societies and other citizens, and we must ensure that everyone has access to a fair and efficient health system. yes, we need reforms, but for the good of society.
the greek presidency's programme is a continuation and intensification of the anti-people strategy of the eu, governments and parties of capital, against the peoples in all the member states. the european union's propaganda machine cannot hide the truth: the eu is a transnational association of capital to ensure the power and profitability of monopolies. the capitalist development you present as the "vision for europe" is the strategic plan of the plutocracy, which will be built on the ruins of workers' and people's rights, on the further drastic reduction of the price of labour power. with starvation wages and pensions, armies of millions of unemployed with young people on the front lines, the destruction of public systems of insurance, health and education, the spread of poverty and misery without end. the deepening of emu involves memoranda of understanding. the completion of the banking union strengthens the concentration and centralisation of capital in the financial system, and deepens the monopoly's grip on the meagre savings of the people. the integrated maritime policy you are promoting targets energy sources and transport routes. the strengthening of the common security and defence policy - a buffer against the penetration of monopolies into new markets - increases the eu's aggressiveness against the people. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator in the world of the free movement of persons. the false dilemma you have posed, 'yes or no to europe', and the trade in hope and fear you are promoting with the european union propaganda campaign, are designed to manipulate the public conscience. the real dilemma is whether or not to unite with capital, which crushes the life and rights of its peoples, and the parties of the european union arc that defend it. the kke calls on the greek people, and other peoples, to use their experience, to condemn the eu, to give strength to their struggle for disengagement from the eu, the unilateral cancellation of the debt by the workers' popular power.
mr. prime minister, i would also like to welcome you to the opening of the fifth greek presidency. this presidency is very different from all the previous ones our country has held, mainly because it is taking place in the europe of crisis, in the greece of crisis. a lot has changed in greece in recent years. the crisis has changed the lives of citizens who have seen their businesses close, their jobs disappear, wages and pensions drastically reduced, the labour market deregulated, the welfare state collapsed, and fascism and strong euroscepticism developed. greeks see their children - the best, most educated, most outgoing generation our country has ever produced - taking the path of migration, as youth unemployment is at 60%, the highest in all of europe. i am deeply convinced that the great challenge for greece and for europe is to combat unemployment, especially among young people, which is becoming a building block of societies in crisis. long-term unemployment is disruptive to the individual, the family, the society. the absence of hope, of prospects, is destroying societies, tearing apart the social fabric. i therefore consider the emphasis placed by the greek presidency on social cohesion and the fight against unemployment to be particularly important. it is a fact, mr prime minister, that the first fiscal signs of the sacrifices of the greek people are positive. but we still have a long way to go before we can offer people perspective and hope and convince them that the solution is more europe, not less. a europe of jobs, growth and opportunity for all. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. europe cannot kill its children! only a europe of solidarity and cooperation can have a future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in a few months' time, in the midst of the greek presidency, we have the most difficult european elections the union has ever known. if we don't all succeed together, then the battle will be lost. i wish you, mr prime minister, and your government every success, and i hope that the greek presidency will contribute - as far as possible - to winning the great gamble: to bring the union back closer to the heart of the european citizen.
madam president, the greek prime minister has presented the programme of the greek presidency and has spoken clearly about the situation in greece and the efforts of the greek people, with their government, to get out of the economic crisis. important steps are being taken. there were some colleagues in the hemisphere today who questioned two things, the course of the union and the situation in greece. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all know that this europe is satisfactory even to those who do not want it. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, which are intended to make the commission more transparent and more transparent, and to make it more transparent and more transparent. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to congratulate you, mr president, on your efforts in this direction and on the fact that the greek presidency is seeking these solutions. i'm sure you'll succeed, and i know you have the experience and knowledge to deal with the crisis.
mr president, on behalf of the house, we wish greece and europe every success during your presidency. this debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the european union's common foreign and security policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european maritime safety agency is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. as the european parliament's rapporteur on blue growth, i stress the importance of exploiting the opportunities that its key sectors will create for wealth generation and job creation, particularly in southern europe. mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect.
in writing. the region of southeast asia, comprising states of outstanding importance to global economic development and geopolitics. this makes asean (association of southeast asian nations) an international organization with a distinct role in the framework of international cooperation and international dialogue. the present report, which i supported, lays the foundation for a comprehensive set of proposals for the future eu-asean relationship. the european parliament recognises the agency as a key regional and economic partner, promoting and defending peace and development at regional and global level. the initiative lays the foundations for closer economic and political cooperation with asean members and provides for the strengthening of interparliamentary relations between the two sides, with an emphasis on political dialogue on human rights and fundamental democratic values such as freedom of speech and the free flow of information, the fight against corruption and international crime, money laundering and drug trafficking, as well as illegal trafficking and human trafficking. the defence and promotion of the rule of law and respect for human life are universal values which we must jointly strive to defend without any compromise.
in writing. i voted against the mixing of honey with genetically modified organisms (gmos) and in favour of mandatory labelling of genetically modified pollen in honey. the consumer must be able to know whether the honey he chooses contains genetically modified (gm) pollen. it is important to protect the unique quality of greek honey and the 20 000 greek beekeepers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the final compromise text of the regulation on the hercule iii financial programme, which was specifically designed to combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activity affecting the eu's financial interests, such as smuggling and counterfeiting. it is particularly important that the european parliament has managed to include in the final text provisions which help to make the programme more effective and results-oriented. the fact that the co-financing rate is set at 80% and can be increased to 90% in the event that member states are exposed to a high risk affecting the protection of the union's financial interests is also a major relief for those member states subject to budgetary constraints. the protection of the union's financial interests is a matter of major importance, particularly in the light of the ongoing efforts to rationalise the budget, as the union is called upon to respond to its enhanced role and increased responsibilities with resources that are limited compared to the past. in this context, it is imperative that money from the eu budget is not lost, and we must also guarantee that european taxpayers' money is not at risk of being squandered through fraud, corruption or other illegal activities.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and i am sure that the european union will be able to play a part in this. the european union has a duty to ensure that the right to free movement is respected and that the right to freedom of movement is respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how do we apply it to the whole, how does this work properly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. it is very important that the european commission yesterday in its communication mentioned the assistance and the decisive role of the municipalities and regions in the matter of free movement, but it is also important today, as our discussion shows, that the council and the commission respond that they intend to assist the local authorities even more in the implementation of free movement and, of course, in the removal of any obstacles in this direction.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i will be provocative, but let us get back to real life. national governments and their security agencies are vested with preserving the well-being of their citizens, and we have to bear in mind the fact that the reason why we enjoy this high quality of security in the eu and us is because of these safety mechanisms. in no way am i saying that basic citizens’ rights should be compromised. in fact these programmes ensure the exact opposite, protecting citizens’ data privacy. ladies and gentlemen, i would like all of you to recall the terrorist attack in boston last year during the marathon. if it were not for the surveillance cameras, the terrorists would never have been identified. europe is an example of liberal parliamentary democracy, and we should endorse and trust our legislation when it deals with intelligence activities aimed at ensuring the security of our citizens.
the question is "blue card". mr posselt, you have once again reiterated your position that greece is blocking the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to the european union. i object to the fact that this is a wrong view, because greece wants the european perspective of all its neighbours, which is our strategic choice, and i ask you, because you often accuse us: which country gave its consent to the european union - skopje association agreement? which member state has given its consent to visa liberalisation in that country? which member state has given its consent to grant candidate country status to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia? i want you to answer me honestly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. was it greece or not?
mr president, this year's report on serbia is a report in which, for the first time in many years, we have reached a very broad consensus, and which sends a very clear and positive message about the path that the country has taken over the years. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. serbia is a clear example of what this policy can achieve. the balkans, which were blood-soaked not only in 1914 but more recently in the 1990s, are now on the threshold of the union. i am therefore very happy because the news is excellent for serbia and because in a few days, on 21 january, we will have the first intergovernmental conference in brussels. belgrade, with its commitment to european integration, has shown that it can overcome the conflicts of the past and move forward. it has shown, with the historic brussels agreement with kosovo, that it can become a driving force for the normalisation of relations in the region. we have to keep going down this road. the profound changes that have taken place in several sectors will contribute to the development of the serbian economy and help serbia to develop a fully functioning market economy. the most basic steps have already been taken. in other areas, however, the reform effort must continue. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the impartiality, the quality of the judiciary, the absence of political interference must be implemented immediately in order to establish an independent judiciary. i also believe that emphasis should be placed on discrimination issues, an area where there are still open issues, and i would also like to stress once again the need to strengthen the role of women in all decision-making processes and to ensure better protection of their rights. i also welcome the statements by the minister for european affairs, mr branko ružić, that serbia is aiming to open six chapters by 2014. i hope that greece, which holds the presidency of the union this semester, will work actively to speed up the accession process, as minister kourkoulas has already stressed. all the balkan states must join the union. the balkans are a region which has a right to belong to the union and should be included there. the task of all of us here will be completed when all the countries of the western balkans are members of the european union.
mr president, i believe that the western balkan countries and their accession to the european union are among our priorities, provided that they do not transfer their internal problems to the union. i do not therefore share the apathy with which the usual fyrom lawyers have spoken out of turn. serbia has shown commitment to its european path and has made great progress in meeting the criteria. it is necessary to continue and encourage the historic dialogue between belgrade and pristina. the commission has already adopted important action plans in areas such as the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and discrimination. however, as the commission has pointed out, further action is needed to bring the economy in line with the acquis and to bring it into balance. state intervention in the economy must be limited in favour of private sector growth and competitiveness. i believe that serbia can. i believe that it has the potential for rapid progress in its accession process and i believe that we need a stable serbia for the sake of stability in the whole region.
mr president, the enlargement of the european union to the western balkans went beyond the dismemberment of yugoslavia and the redrawing of borders in the dirty war of nato, the european union and the united states in 1999. it went beyond peace with a gun to your head and the creation of a nato protectorate in kosovo. it has been through the european union military police operations in bosnia and kosovo. it has passed the recent serbia-kosovo agreement under the brutal blackmail of the european union. the european union's competition with the other imperialist powers in the region is intensifying. the greek bourgeoisie and the new democracy government and pasok are involved in these plans. they seek to penetrate the business groups and get out of the crisis at the expense of the people. the capitalist reforms with a view to integration, the extreme poverty and exploitation, the mass migration, all contradict the eu propaganda that the european union is a guarantor of peace and prosperity for the peoples. it is in the interest of the peoples to intensify their struggle for the weakening and dissolution of the european union, with the working people in power and the building of another europe with mutually beneficial relations and solidarity of the peoples.
madam president, commissioner, in the europe of 2014, homelessness is unfortunately becoming a plague. so while the fight against homelessness is a key priority for the union, the numbers of homeless people are still increasing in the member states, and particularly in countries with memoranda of understanding, such as my own country. when we speak of the homeless, we are talking about the "newly homeless", people of a different profile, family heads who are suddenly condemned to poverty because the consequences of a crisis, such as extreme austerity, unemployment at historically high rates, a sharp decline in wages with rising energy costs, household costs and overtaxation, form a grim reality that threatens to make hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens homeless, under the threat of foreclosures and auctions, if they are unable to meet their obligations, either due to borrowing under previous conditions or to state services. according to a recent study, commissioner, it is estimated that for every euro spent on preventing homelessness, 2.2 euros of public expenditure arising from the effects of the problem is saved. in this context, and given that oligarchy has social, economic and, above all, humanitarian costs, immediate action and decisive solutions are needed, and i therefore wish to call for special care to be taken to protect our vulnerable fellow citizens against seizures and evictions; and, on the other hand, to facilitate greece, the only country without a social housing network, to use european funds in this direction, which will bring significant benefits to vulnerable citizens above all, but also to society and the real economy in general.
colleagues, before giving the floor to commissioner kallas, i would like to remind you that members who have not had the opportunity to speak can, according to the rules, hand in a written statement of not more than 200 words which will be appended to the verbatim report of the debate. (end of catch-the-eye procedure)
the debate on this point is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on:- question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the recognition of ecological damage in european and international law by matthias groote, corinne lepage, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, gesine meissner, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism and gabriel mato adrover, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000127/2013 - b7-0102/2014) [2013/2878 (rsp)) ]
in writing. the recent statements in the council by some european leaders calling for changes to the regime of free movement of citizens run counter to the principle of european legislation. the resolution, which i voted for, rejects any proposal to restrict the movement of european workers within the eu. especially for greece, where thousands of our fellow citizens are looking for work in other eu member states because of the crisis, such a decision would likely have led to discrimination in terms of access to employment, employment and working conditions, pay, dismissal, social benefits and tax benefits.
in writing. i voted in favour of the progress report on serbia. the integration of the western balkan countries is one of the eu's priorities, provided that the criteria to be met by each candidate country for eu membership are respected. serbia has the potential to make rapid progress on its accession path. we need a stable serbia for the sake of stability in the whole region.
in writing. despite the impossibility of determining the number of homeless people in the eu, it is clear that the economic crisis, especially in member states as severely affected as ours, has led to an increase in the number of people who are unable to meet the basic human need for housing. it is clear that homelessness is a violation of human dignity and human rights, as housing is a basic human need and a necessary condition for a life in dignity and social inclusion, and it is the responsibility of the member states to promote and guarantee these rights. with this fundamental assumption the joint resolution, which i voted in favour of, calls on the commission to develop without further delay an eu strategy for the homeless with the aim of supporting the member states in taking up this responsibility. the european programme for employment and social innovation (easi) can be a tool for exchanging good practice and funding, which the greek municipalities and regions should use. in this respect, it is particularly regrettable that the country has not yet taken advantage of the european pilot programme 'housing first', which aims to tackle homelessness and prevent homelessness.
in writing. the economic crisis and rising unemployment have put a large part of the population at risk of poverty and social exclusion. i voted in favour of the homelessness strategy, which - among other things - encourages member states to develop socially and economically affordable housing adapted to the most vulnerable people.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 4 february 2014, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mrs sari essayah, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (com (2013) 0102 c7-0047/2013 2013/0062 cod) (a7-0319/2013)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 4 february 2014, at 11.30.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches (rule 150).
the examination on this point has been completed.
the next item is the briefing on the report by mrs urlike lunacek, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the eu roadmap against homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity [2013/2183 (ini) ] (a7-0009/2014)
i will explain it to you. i will take all the requests for catch-the-eye, but i have decided not to take any blue cards, in order to have a proper civilised discussion in plenary. so, you can ask for the floor for catch-the-eye, but i will not allow blue cards in this debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 4 february 2014, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. i believe that nature determines gender and the consequent biological and genetic orientations of humans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe, therefore, that the constant raising of the issue of diversity does not solve the problem but allows some to appear more democratic than others. i am not going to participate in this speculation.
the next item is the report by mr robert rochefort, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the implementation of the unfair commercial practices directive (com (2013) 0139 - 2013/2116 (ini)) (a7-0474/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 4 february 2014, at 11.30. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr tadeusz zwiefka, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the eu justice scoreboard [2013/2117 (ini) ] (a7-0442/2013)
in writing. intelligent grids are modernised electricity networks that use analogue or digital technology and communication information to gather information and act in an automated manner to improve the efficiency, reliability, economy and sustainability of electricity generation and distribution. the development of smart grids requires a stable and long-term policy framework. member states and regions are therefore encouraged to invest as early as possible in smart local networks, making use of the european structural and investment funds. it is also important that local and regional authorities and citizens are involved in all phases of the design, implementation and conversion of energy networks. in addition, active participation of distribution service operators and providers of smart grid technologies is necessary. for a future more energy-efficient, europe's regions should strive to become energy producers rather than consumers. this will be beneficial for all eu strategic objectives, including those linked to the creation and maintenance of jobs and the protection of the environment.
in writing. small farms, although they do not make a large contribution to the total agricultural product, are of great importance for the environment and regional cohesion. it will be in everyone's interest to help the smallest to develop dynamism and entrepreneurship, to become aware of the particularly great environmental challenges of our day and to be facilitated to develop a different type of competition from that associated with economies of scale. so we should aim for the following: • promoting the demographic renewal of the sector and access to broadband networks; • promoting the linking of agricultural activities with processing and the provision of services (e.g. tourism), in a way that upgrades and highlights the environment and cultural heritage of each region; • ensuring that small farms are well informed about good practices and that small-scale production is linked to effective alternative marketing methods. the advisory system provided for by the reform of the common agricultural policy is a good start, but there is no guarantee of quality in its implementation in each member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour. this proposal for a council decision laying down rules and procedures to enable the participation of greenland in the kimberley process certification scheme (com (2013) 0429) is closely connected to the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 as regards the inclusion of greenland in implementing the kimberley process certification scheme. together these proposals aim at enabling greenland to participate in the kimberley process certification scheme (kpcs) on rough diamonds through its cooperation with the european union. the scheme set out in the proposal would allow for the import and export of rough diamonds from greenland to the union as well as to other participants in the certification scheme, provided that all imports and exports of rough diamonds are verified and, for exports, certified by union authorities pursuant to the rules set out in regulation (ec) no 2368/2002 implementing the kimberley process certification scheme for the international trade in rough diamonds.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it welcomes the fact that all member states are participating in the eu pilot initiative, hoping that this will lead to a further reduction in the number of infringement procedures, and because it calls for more information to be provided to citizens about this initiative. i believe that the issue of the eu pilot initiative and, more generally, of breaches of eu law and parliament's access to relevant information on the infringement procedure and the procedure preceding it, is an important item on the agenda for a future interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because this proposal is of major importance to the citizens of the union. according to eurostat, some 12 million eu citizens reside in another eu member state than their country of origin. all these people are likely to come into contact at some point with the administrative authorities of the country of residence; tourists with the health system; students with the administration of universities; workers with the tax authorities and the social security system, etc. the local administrative reality for these citizens creates problems, which often translate into time and money. the abolition of additional crossborder formalities is another important step towards facilitating the free movement of citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (cpl) aligns existing eu legislation with the un's globally harmonised ghs, which aims to identify hazardous chemicals and inform users about the associated risks through standardised symbols and phrases on packaging labels and safety data leaflets.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, as the introduction of criminal sanctions against market abuse is an important innovation and a welcome strengthening of the instruments to combat market abuse.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because such an act is necessary and complementary to the connecting europe facility in order to identify the needs for investment in energy infrastructure and to achieve the internal energy market. in addition, a further proposal is made to further clarify the specific provisions in order to avoid double reporting in cases where investment notifications are required under other specific eu legislation, in which case member states should be exempted from the obligation to notify such investments.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by inés ayala sender which is intended to encourage discussion on the future of the european court of auditors, its role and functioning, and the appropriate profile of its members. the court of auditors, as the external auditor of the union institutions, performs a very important task in providing the legislators with a statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for a given financial year. it also provides the budgetary authority with valuable advice on the results achieved by union policies, so as to improve the performance and effectiveness of union-funded activities. the spirit of good working relations and trust between parliament and the court is vital if these two institutions are to do their job properly. it is therefore of particular importance that the council, in the process of appointing the members of the court, respect parliament's decisions on candidates for the position of member of the court.
in writing. i voted against the report, welcoming the three commission communications to which this report refers. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i must point out, however, that this variety of names given to the systems used by the commission to evaluate adopted legislation and to reduce burdens is confusing and unnecessarily complex. therefore, a single name should be used for the better regulation programme.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because the directive aims to protect consumers from unfair commercial practices by businesses towards them, to increase consumer confidence in transactions in the internal market, while guaranteeing greater legal certainty for businesses.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it shows that an intelligent grid can be the cornerstone of the vision for a sustainable energy future that includes more renewable energy production, greater energy savings and better and, in particular, local use of locally produced energy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which focuses on the way energy is produced and consumed in the regions, and in particular on the local and regional implications of the development of smart grids. the report highlights the opportunities for geographical (or territorial) changes in the energy grid for disadvantaged regions and their potential to transform from consumers to producers of energy. member states and regions are therefore encouraged to invest as early as possible in smart local networks using the european structural and investment funds. it also mentions that the development of smart grids requires a stable and long-term policy framework. finally, the report recalls that citizens must be involved in all phases of the design, implementation and conversion of energy networks and stresses the need for active participation of distribution service operators and providers of smart grid technologies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, as i believe that the european steel industry is the basis for europe's most important industrial value chains, such as the automotive industry, the construction sector, the engineering and electrical equipment industry and renewable energy sources. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty.
mr president, the point of order i made does not of course directly concern the banking union, but i would like to tell you that in my country, on a very famous island, kefalonia, there have been terrible earthquakes which remind us of the 1953 season, which destroyed the whole island. the island has, of course, declared a state of emergency because of the earthquakes and i am speaking now, after the council and before the commission, to give the message to the... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, the single resolution mechanism and the single resolution fund are integral parts of the banking union. what needs does the banking union meet, in line with the approach of the european commission, which the european parliament has welcomed from the outset? the need to overcome the current fragmentation in the european banking system, which is recycling the crisis, especially in the economically distressed countries, but also the rupture of the umbilical cord of banks and countries in which they are based, an element that creates conditions of great inequality - as we experience in greece - in the financing of the real economy. these are the problems which the banking union in general and the single resolution mechanism in particular have to address. but this objective is not served if decisions on the single resolution mechanism are taken hostage by governments, hostage by national vetoes, recycling internal contradictions and institutional disparities between strong and less powerful countries, and it is not served if the single resolution fund is relegated to greek calendar and left weakened outside the european framework. mr president, you have said - and quite rightly - that the market, the citizens, the depositors are waiting for the resolution mechanism and that the agreement must be concluded soon, and i am sure that the greek presidency will do its best to achieve this. we want an agreement, but not just any agreement, because if the resolution mechanism does not work properly, there is a risk that we will achieve the opposite of the desired result and, instead of safeguarding financial stability, keep it in a state of permanent destabilisation and constant risk.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i consider it very important that the time has finally come for the institutions to discuss among themselves the banking union, on specific plans and proposals, and in particular the single resolution mechanism, which is the heart of this plan and is also the most thorny issue. we all now realise that the banking union is essential for the functioning of the single market, for the balanced development of the north and the south, for the protection of depositors and taxpayers. let's not miss this moment. we are called upon today to give real substance to this plan. the european parliament's proposals are in that direction and we call for constructive cooperation with the council to achieve a real banking union. as my colleagues have already said, our aim is for the single resolution mechanism to be a european mechanism with effective resources, procedures and instruments. the european union and its citizens have suffered greatly from reckless actions and half-measures. the european union must not be trapped in its weaknesses, and the intergovernmental procedure proposed by the council is one of those weaknesses of the union. i hope, mr president, that you will be given a mandate by the council, that you will have its support and that together with the european parliament we will chart a european path towards the banking union with effective instruments for stability, cohesion and growth.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, as you recalled a year and a half ago, eleven member states committed to implementing the financial transaction tax under the enhanced cooperation procedure and asked the european commission to submit a legislative proposal on the basis of the original proposal submitted in october 2011. what was the logic of that proposal: low tax rates to cover all financial institutions, all financial markets and all financial products. this was the right approach by the european commission, this was and remains the approach of the european parliament. it is a year and a half later, four months before the most crucial european elections in european history, and the developments are disappointing. the negotiations in the council have 'stuck' and the problem, mr president, is not so much the legal action of a member state other than the eleven, as the fact that some of the eleven member states have backed away from their initial commitments. in its report, adopted by a large majority in july 2012, the european parliament, as commissioner šemeta recalled, proposed a realistic compromise, with concrete proposals and solutions to the most difficult issues. for example, we proposed lower rates and a transitional period for sovereign bond transactions and for repos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as rapporteur of the european parliament, at a time when it is the first time that a country from the eleven is holding the presidency, and after congratulating you in particular on your strong commitment to pushing this measure forward, i ask you, mr president, to make every effort to get the negotiations out of the way, to push this social justice measure forward and not to disappoint european citizens by delaying or weakening the financial transaction tax.
blue-card question. – mr hökmark, why do you not acknowledge that the swedish tax was designed exactly the other way round from the tax proposed by the commission and endorsed by the european parliament? it was a tax of very limited scope charged at a very high rate, and that is why it failed.
mr president, today the wall street journal had a very interesting article on page 14, entitled ‘the real climate ‘deniers’ are the greens’. no offence to the greens, but it was a very interesting article indeed and we should read it before the vote tomorrow. i will switch to greek now. κύριε πρόεδρε, η θέση του κοινοβουλίου, όπως ψηφίστηκε στην κοινή συνεδρίαση της itre και της envi, αντιπροσωπεύει μια μαξιμαλιστική θέση που αδυνατεί να αναγνωρίσει τα προβλήματα που παρουσιάζει η ευρωπαϊκή αγορά και αγνοεί τις εξελίξεις σε παγκόσμιο και σε γεωπολιτικό επίπεδο. το κείμενο που ψηφίσαμε δεν διακρίνεται για τον ρεαλισμό και τον ορθολογισμό του. ο ρεαλισμός μας λέει ότι το υψηλό κόστος της παραγωγής ενέργειας επιβαρύνει τις βιομηχανίες και αυξάνει την ενεργειακή φτώχεια για τους πολίτες της ευρώπης όσον αφορά τις τιμές. ο ορθολογισμός μας λέει ότι εδώ σήμερα θα έπρεπε να συζητούμε για τις ενεργειακές διασυνδέσεις και για την επιτάχυνση της επιλογής των έργων κοινού ενδιαφέροντος. πιστεύω ότι η επιτροπή έχει καταφέρει, σε αντίθεση με το κοινοβούλιο, να επιτύχει ένα σωστό και ρεαλιστικό συμβιβασμό μεταξύ των στόχων που χρειάζονται για την ενέργεια αλλά και για το περιβάλλον. πρέπει να έχουμε κατά νου ότι ο επικεφαλής οικονομολόγος του διεθνούς οργανισμού ενέργειας μας προειδοποιεί ότι απειλούνται 30 εκατομμύρια θέσεις εργασίας με την ενεργειακή πολιτική που ακολουθούμε ...(ο πρόεδρος διακόπτει την ομιλήτρια).
mr president, the reform of the current regulation is necessary to fill the gaps we know to exist and, above all, to implement it fully. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the community. only a small percentage of passengers who are entitled to compensation receive it, and this after marathon efforts. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission will also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission will be able to provide the necessary information to the member states.
mr gahler, we have understood your point. i can assure you that we will get the information from the president’s cabinet and we will give the information requested to all the members.
dear colleague, we have taken note of your concern.
thank you for your point, mr fox. as you mentioned, the issue has been postponed once, in order to ask for legal advice. we have received that legal advice, and it was distributed to the members last monday. the advice endorsed the assessment of the president to endorse the suggestion of the conference of presidents. that is why i declare the calendar approved. (murmurs of dissent)
i have just announced a decision which has been made by the president and endorsed by the legal service. we are in the middle of the vote. we have followed the rules and the issue is closed. we shall now continue with the vote.
mr schlyter, there is no debate during the vote. nevertheless, if the rapporteur wants to make a brief clarification she may have the floor.
we have taken note and will refer it to the president. - μετά από την ψηφοφορία:
that concludes the vote.
let me explain to you the following. please can you be quiet. i have the floor now. the vote was on-going and the rapporteur had not asked for the floor before the final vote, so i could not interrupt the vote, since the vote was open. he had not asked for the floor. (objections)
first of all, i would ask you to avoid the labels. please put your headphones on. i think i explained to you that we have followed the rules exactly as far as the 2015 timetable is concerned. it has already been postponed once, a legal opinion was requested, the legal opinion was sent on monday, it was fully compatible and in line with the president's decision, the epp amendment was withdrawn, so the calendar is deemed to have been approved in accordance with the proposal of the conference of presidents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i had already put the whole of the amended resolution to the vote, the roll-call vote had been opened, when the rapporteur asked for the floor. i give the floor to mr cashman.
i was not informed. i shall check with the sessional services, but i assure you that i was not informed that he had asked for the floor.
the line to the members who have not voted is given each time by the rapporteurs according to how the vote has been conducted up to that moment. it is not a given that the final vote is always set in advance. the rapporteur gives the signal during the vote. but i repeat, as regards your reasonable request to speak before the final vote, i was not informed of this. the vote was taken by roll-call and was conducted in accordance with the rules of procedure. mr. cashman's been wanting to speak for a while.
mr president, the ukrainian people are today the victims of an imperialist intervention by the european union and the united states on the one hand and by capitalist russia on the other for zones of influence, control of energy markets and energy supply and transport routes. the attempt of sections of the ruling class of ukraine to drag the working people under foreign flags, of one or another capitalist union, for their interests dramatically aggravates all the problems of the ukrainian people, because both sides what they promise them is savage exploitation. by exploiting the savage attacks of the police on the one hand, and the action of right-wing neo-nazi forces alongside the opposition on the other, the united states, the european union and the european parliament are engaging in an unprecedented demagogy with the aim of convincing the ukrainian people that their prosperity lies within the imperialist unions, with the armies of the millions of unemployed, the hundreds of millions living below the poverty line, the impoverished migrants in the european union.... (the president interrupts)
madam president, it is certain that the situation in syria continues to be dramatic: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. the conflict has ultimately upgraded russia's role and it is being played on by many neighbouring and non-state actors as well as terrorist organisations. it is characteristic that the fighting between rival factions within the syrian opposition has become generalized. we are now facing a civil war within a civil war, while christians are undergoing roman-era persecution. i've never heard of anyone saying there's a power vacuum in this country. the results of the first round of talks between the syrian government and the opposition are tenuous. the only achievement of the talks was that the two sides sat at the same table, giving each other a measure of international recognition. as for the destruction of syria's chemical arsenal, it certainly must be done, but the solution of destroying it in international waters between malta, libya and crete is catastrophic and should be reviewed. the mediterranean is a closed sea basin with very low rates of water renewal and is not suitable for such destructive actions for the environment and coastal areas.
madam president, commissioner, you have referred to the efforts of the european union and the international community to deal with the humanitarian crisis in syria. this is a great challenge. more resources are needed from europe and the international community to provide relief for the people and the syrians in the neighbouring towns, but also for our humanitarian organisations, which are working with great difficulty and with dwindling resources. the geneva process will take a long time if it does not collapse. we already know that certainties will continue. already in a week of talks 1,900 people have been killed in syria and at the end of the first part of the talks the army continues to bomb with explosives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. conditions that allow us to assume that assad will leave, that the opposition will organize, will present itself in the negotiations more convincing and representative of all groups of society? finally, commissioner, what information do you have on the chemicals which are being discussed for destruction? how much security does the solution of their destruction give in the international waters of the mediterranean? what information do you have on the mediterranean basin?
mr president, a few days after the breakdown of the geneva talks, we are here to discuss the situation in syria again. the only positive aspect of geneva ii is that it avoided a final rupture, which gives us some hope that, as a result of the talks, a solution will be found for the creation of a transitional government. meanwhile, however, the war continues, with over 130,000 dead and over 9 million displaced. we have repeatedly stressed that the crisis in syria is not a regional conflict but instead threatens to set fire to the already troubled region of the middle east. it is imperative that there be strong pressure from the international community to allow the government of the country to allow the delivery of humanitarian aid, as required by international humanitarian law. there must also be special care for children. at the same time, support for refugees is also needed at european level, i.e. a plan for the distribution of syrian refugees coming to europe, so that the countries on the union's borders do not have to cope with the growing flows alone. finally, i would ask both the commission and the high representative to exert all possible influence to prevent the destruction of chemical weapons in the international waters off crete and to follow a procedure which is safe for both the environment and people.
mr president, the international community has welcomed with great relief the agreement to withdraw and destroy syria's chemical weapons stockpile. but today, in conditions of complete opacity which allow for any scenario, the destruction of these weapons is under way, an operation carried out somewhere in the central mediterranean, in a way that no one has ever tried before, according to the words of the us secretary of defense. the european union's failure to pursue a common foreign and security policy, commissioner, even if it deprives it of its role as an international player, cannot remain an observer to an international operation taking place, at great risk, in the heart of the mediterranean. the citizens of the mediterranean are asking for an active presence of the union, transparency and guarantees that we will avoid this nightmare. we call for the immediate intervention of the high representative and the presidency of the council and recall that 2014 has been designated as the year of the mediterranean.
madam president, it is certain that the european union's relations with russia are not going well. and it doesn't look like it just from the three-hour meeting, which was a little short. we are all aware of the problems in the field of human and individual rights and of recent history, and of the theory that seems to be valid that 'if you are not with me, you are against me'. but let us deal with europe. i think we expect more from our side. the longer the history of our democracy, the more certain is the way in which we work together. on the other hand there are fears, both in russia and in other countries. we have to try harder. if we accept that the united states, as the general representative of the west, should cooperate with russia, or that large european countries such as germany should do the same, then what kind of european union policy are we talking about? if we want a european union policy that counts in russia and obliges russia to take it into account, then this must be the policy of the union and not the policy of the member states.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - mr president, i am here as president of the council but of course i always retain the status of greek foreign minister. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter, and i am sure that the council will be able to do so. we have seen many such dramas in recent months, with the lambedusa drama topping them all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis. despite the continuous and tireless efforts of the greek authorities, and in particular the coastguard, there are problems because, as we had the opportunity to say in our previous discussion on the pressure exerted on bulgaria's land borders, greece, like the other mediterranean countries of south-eastern europe, has such extensive coastlines, such extensive european borders to protect and guard, that the necessary mechanism is not always sufficient. we are also facing events that are now completely different from what we have experienced in the past, because the crisis, the civil war in syria, the huge flow of refugees that has been created, are causing enormous pressures and every day we are faced with these kinds of problems. the tragedy in farmakonisi is a typical example of this severe migratory pressure. let me give you some numbers from august 2012: the situation in the eastern aegean sea has worsened dramatically. in 2008, we had 15,000 cases, which had dropped dramatically before the last eruption in syria, and in 2011 we had decreased cases and in 2012. but since august of 2012, we've had a worsening. the greek coastguard covers an area of more than two thousand square kilometres in the maritime area of the eastern aegean. this area, of course, includes a large number of islands and rocky islets. so far it has rescued three thousand one hundred and twenty people. this accounts for 29% of all those who have crossed the border without documents and without legal procedures. in this case the turkish fishing vessel was spotted by the ground forces based on farmakonisi and the additional vessel of the port authority that rushed to the area was immediately informed. there were extremely adverse weather conditions and we got to a real drama, because we ended up with a significant number of human lives lost. this incident has raised our awareness, as the greek minister for shipping, mr varvitsiotis, had the opportunity to point out in a letter to the council of europe's commissioner for human rights and to mrs malmström. an independent judicial inquiry into these incidents has already been ordered and is ongoing. we want to fully investigate the facts. we want to know the absolute truth. i want to assure you that there is no expediency that limits the scope and depth of this investigation. the law will be enforced. we want this to be an educational and exemplary event. i can't predict the investigation. i know that frontex, as i have read in the press, has its own data and its own records. the port authority has presented the data as recorded through its own mechanisms. it is important to draw conclusions from this experience, as i had the opportunity to say in the previous debate on bulgaria. the european union must show solidarity. the principle of fair and proportionate burden-sharing must be applied. we must face the pressure, which is daily, and at the same time we must create an institutional framework, which i had the opportunity to present in detail in the previous debate. it is a priority of the greek presidency this semester and a priority of the italian presidency next semester to develop a more integrated strategy for managing migration flows. i would remind you that the european council has already devoted two major debates to this subject last october and last december. the informal meeting of the ministers for justice and home affairs a few days ago, on 24 january 2014, in athens, gave the ministers and the commissioner responsible, mrs malmström, the opportunity to discuss what needs to be done in the post-stockholm period, and our aim is, through the proposals that the commission will present, to complete this migration management plan at the european council in june. this level of medium- to long-term planning is not, of course, a response to the daily pressures, the drama, the anguish, the exploitation, the organised crime, which often hides behind innocent people, refugees seeking a better life, seeking protection from the inhumane conditions that exist in syria and other parts of the middle east and north africa. i would therefore like to assure you, on behalf of both the council and the greek government, that the investigation will be thorough, our sensitivity is absolute and cooperation with the commission will also be open and, i hope, effective.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would of course like to start by expressing my condolences, following the terrible incident in farmakonisi and the loss of life there, to the relatives and the survivors. we are aware and concerned about the situation of migrants in greece. for quite some time now, we have been involved with the greek authorities in trying to help them to set up a fully functioning migration policy in line with international and european norms. there is a lot of progress being made, but still a lot of work to be done. we will continue to help and to support greece in migration management, in the asylum system, in border management, and so on. we have recently received severe allegations of push-back operations in turkey and ill treatment, and this is alarming. we are in contact, as the minister explained, with the authorities all the time regarding these allegations, and we are closely monitoring the situation on the ground, including through the presence of frontex. on this particular incident, from the information that we have so far, it seems that it was a search and rescue operation. it was not a border control operation. the weather that night was very difficult, and it is of course difficult to know exactly what happened. of course, loss of life is always unacceptable and should not be tolerated. i was in athens the morning after this incident and i spoke to the ministers concerned – minister dendias, who is the minister for order and protection, and minister varvitsiotis, who is the minister for maritime borders – and expressed my concerns to them and asked them to conduct a full independent investigation. they said that they would do so. we have also urged them to take all the necessary action to make sure that similar incidents do not occur in the future. of course, i take this opportunity again to remind greece and others that, when conducting border surveillance operations, all member states must make sure that they fully respect the fundamental rights of the migrants concerned and, in particular, that they respect the principle of non-refoulement. push-backs are illegal under international law and european laws. we must also make sure that asylum seekers at borders have access to the asylum procedure for third-country nationals who wish to apply for asylum. so, we hope for a quick, thorough and totally transparent investigation, so that we can shed full light on what happened that very tragic night in farmakonisi.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i thank both the minister-president and the commissioner for the explanations given. indeed, the incident was a rescue incident at 2:00 a.m. however, since some doubts have been raised, the whole file has been transferred to the prosecutor's office and there will be a definite answer. but, commissioner, we must make one thing clear. greece has taken in a huge number of refugees whose burden it cannot bear, and rightly so must bear the burden of refugees, and you have rightly mentioned asylum, but there is the issue of the trade in human hopes on the other side, and there is the issue open on which there was an agreement, but for the first three years there will be no repatriations from turkey. we must make it clear that the problem is a european problem. it's not just one country. the border is basically a common border, which is why frontex exists. and on the other hand our neighbours must understand that good relations with europe mean that they must absolutely cooperate in combating the networks and traffickers of human souls who are making a fortune off the backs of people seeking a better future. that's the big problem. and i think you have a responsibility to propose, commissioner, as you have very rightly pointed out many times, more european approach to this issue, more solidarity between european countries, more effort. the european union must not close its doors, but it must not open them wide by promising bad conditions and ghettos in an area of peace, prosperity and democracy.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, the tragedy of the 15 victims in farmakonisi is not a greek problem, any more than the tragedy of the 150 dead in lampedusa is an italian problem. both are and will remain european problems reflecting the european union's inability to propose a comprehensive migration policy. the obsession with dublin ii and iii, the refusal to share the burden equitably, the parallel threats to the southern countries to expel them from the schengen area if they do not follow strict and absolute controls at their borders, lead every day to human tragedies, with victims mainly women and children, which, unfortunately, do not seem to be coming to an end. but, mr president, what is, on the contrary, a greek problem are the unacceptable and racist statements by the minister for civil protection, nikos dendias, according to which our country has the misfortune of receiving second-class immigrants. the minister is not aware that these are people who are coming from war zones and in many cases are entitled to refugee status. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the greek problem is also the statements of the minister of shipping, mr varvitsiotis, who shamelessly, without an apology, denounces the council of europe's commissioner for human rights, mr nils muižnieks, for wanting to create political problems in greece and congratulates the minister himself and his services before the investigation is even completed! i would also like to point out another remarkable fact: the statements of the survivors to the unhcr are far from the statements taken by the coast guard on land. a prominent greek journalist asked on 4 february what kind of cynicism this could be. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, it is true that i was pleased to hear the president-in-office of the council apologize and express the sorrow of greek society. unfortunately, until now, when this tragic incident happened, no apology had been heard. instead, opinions were expressed about exactly how the incident happened before the process was completed! i was pleased to hear the minister say that we are looking at what actually happened and that there has been no prior opinion, as when the other minister, the minister for shipping, came out and described the incident without the procedure being completed. i would also like to believe that the minister, in making these statements, is actually criticising a third minister, mr dendias, who spoke of second-class people, of the second kind. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are not the only ones saying this here in the european parliament, the council of europe report says it too. over 17,000 people have drowned in the mediterranean in the last ten years trying to reach europe. who were those people? are they strangers? are there any illegal circuits? or are many of them people who are stacking up on a rotting ship to escape death? the people who drowned in lampedusa, the people who drowned in many other places, and in greek waters, very often flee war zones. the people on farmakonisi were from afghanistan and syria. the european union must stop pushing for closed borders. there must be pathways so that people who want to obtain refugee status can have security and can come legally without drowning... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, 'the policies and practices along the greek border are not only a disgrace to greece, they are a disgrace to the european union as a whole', so says the amnesty international report last july. the tragic event in farmakonisi is the result of the heavy responsibility of the greek authorities. such rejection practices have been reported in the past. there must indeed be an impartial investigation to assign responsibility. how many more people must be lost in the mediterranean before the european union realises that it must radically change its policy on migration, on asylum, on the protection of fundamental human rights throughout europe? there must be immediate and effective measures to rescue migrants on the high seas; set up reception centres at entry points. and we need a new institutional legislative framework which will really regulate fairly and proportionately the access of migrants to all the countries of europe.
mr president, today i feel obliged to give, with my voice, a voice to the victims of the tragedy in farmaconesi. to abdul sabur aziz, to fadham mohammad ahmadi, to the sixty sufis, to the survivors of the shipwreck who lost their wives and children. they say: the harbor boys didn't come to save us, they wanted to drown us. we raised a baby so they could see it, so they could see that we have women and children. the women were screaming for help and the harbor guards were cursing them, they would have let us drown if the harbor guard boat hadn't been damaged. a syrian who had managed to get onto the coast guard boat threw a stick to catch a child, but the harbor guard kicked him. they made us sign without an interpreter. i denounce the hypocrisy, the moral fabrication and the co-responsibility of the european governments which still support dublin ii and which do not accept the distribution of refugees among european countries. but the political orders given to the men of the greek coast guard to informally send the refugees back to turkey by any means, turns them into executioners. and for that, mr venizelos, you have a political responsibility.
mr president, the tragedy in farmakonisi is the result of the policy of the european union and the new democracy and pasok government, the intensification of repression at the border, the strengthening of frontex forces. joint repressive operations only multiply the number of innocent victims. it is impossible for them to cope with the wave of migrants, because they are the other side of the criminal policy of the european union and governments, as impoverished people are being uprooted by the imperialist interventions of the european union, nato and the usa. it is now urgently necessary to put an end to the new measures and the repressive action of the european union's frontex mechanisms, the european border surveillance system. it is also necessary to grant asylum or temporary humanitarian status to those coming from countries of imperialist occupation or civil war, to give travel documents to those who want to go to another member state of the european union, to abolish the dublin ii regulation. finally, greece must immediately cease all participation in the imperialist interventions of the european union and nato in third countries.
mr president, the incident at farmaconesi was a dramatic event, a tragic moment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, including the introduction of a new system of border controls. on the one hand, there is the coordinated state which must protect the state borders in accordance with international law, international conventions, universal and european values, and internal legislation, following specific rules of engagement. on the other side are ruthless organized criminal gangs, mafia, slave traders, but also desperate people, scared, who don't care about their own lives. i think there are two fundamental assumptions that we all find ourselves in this room agreeing with. the first is that the right to life is the most fundamental of all human rights. it is absolute, there are no discounts, no exceptions. the second assumption is that the protection and security of borders is the primary mission and duty of the state and the state. these are the two pillars of greece's policy to deal with the burning issue of illegal immigration. we have also followed this policy on the dramatic night of 20 january. now, justice is doing its job. greece is doing its best in extremely difficult circumstances. the european union must do its part. "fair proportionate distribution" is the key phrase.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i believe that enlargement of the european union is useful, provided that the copenhagen criteria are met and that the union does not inherit problems which negate or impede the spirit of mutual respect and cooperation between the member states of the union. the howitt report on fyrom, besides unduly allowing arbitrary lawyers to misrepresent the name of the country fyrom in excess of their mandate, contains inaccurate or tacit information and does not reflect the real situation in fyrom. the development made by the rapporteur himself and by his predecessor, mr füle, essentially overturns the report. it appears that further efforts are needed by the government of the fyrom to meet the basic accession criteria. the opening of negotiations does not depend only on neighbouring countries such as greece and bulgaria, but mainly on the government of that country to reduce nationalism and provocative acts and statements in an attempt to find, in a spirit of good neighbourliness and in agreement with greece and bulgaria, a solution to all issues. the political group which i represent and myself personally recognize one macedonia and that is the greek one.
mr president, in my view the progress report on fyrom does not help to solve the name problem, nor does it seek to improve the living standards of the people of that country. in particular, once again the honourable member's report regards the name problem as a bilateral problem, and in this year's report it is even attempting to create a fait accompli in order to have accession before the solution. this process, this problem is an international problem, so we must respect the procedures that are trying to solve it, the un procedures. the european parliament must protect this, otherwise it is not helping. secondly, the report wants fyrom to apply more of the functioning market economy, when we know that this has led to crisis in european societies and ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, the western balkans is a very interesting issue and commissioner füle has really worked with intensity and patience to enlarge the european union in this direction. in particular, with regard to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i would like to point out that it is not possible - and everyone understands this - to have accession negotiations if there is no real will to resolve the name issue, which is not just a formal issue but a deeper issue of propaganda and a problem of redemption. on the other hand, it is obvious that the question of the identity of a people is of enormous importance for its future, but the people in question have appeared with various identities over the past century. 'sometimes as a bulgarian team, sometimes with a different identity... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, the thirty-year history of the name dispute is marked by mistakes, omissions, omissions, obsessions. and that's on both sides. as far as my country is concerned, i can mention the rejection of good international proposals in the early 1990s, such as the "nova macedonia", the embargo against the neighbouring country, the unrepentant and mistaken triumphal shouts after the bucharest result. but the country with the government of george papandreou in 2009 tried with honesty and sincerity to come to the table. unfortunately, we had no one to talk to. mr gruevski, entrenched behind his nationalism, his cult of antiquity and the instrumentalization of history, holds his country hostage to his obsessions and interests. it is clear that the gruevski regime does not want a solution. greece has come a long way since the early 1990s. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is unfortunately moving further and further away from a commonly acceptable solution.
mr president, commissioner, every year some 500 million tonnes of cargo are transported by inland waterways. this volume is equivalent to the transport of 25 million lorries and 140 billion tonne-kilometres of freight. that's the great thing about river transport. they offer major advantages in transport performance, sustainability and external costs. a well-maintained network of waterways, free of bottlenecks and missing links, is therefore essential to complete the integration of inland navigation and to ensure its reliability. during naiades i, the network of waterways was not adequately maintained, nor were the missing links completed, in many cases due to national budget cuts. we therefore welcome the new naiades ii package of measures presented by the commission to make better use of the potential of inland waterways. the commission proposes structural changes in the inland waterway sector, with improvements in quality, operating conditions and infrastructure, and the integration of the sector into the supply chain. however, the commission does not propose any innovative specific measures, such as appropriate and specific funding, which would ensure the full implementation of the action programme. naiades ii seems to be a jumbled combination of existing measures with no real priorities and no real hierarchies. aware of the importance of the inland waterway sector and of ensuring a sustainable transport chain, i am concerned about the lack of a stable and specific strategy for the inland waterway sector accompanied by adequate funding. we therefore look forward to a new, more ambitious proposal and we hope that the potential of the new transeuropean networks will be exploited through the facilitating europe budget and the horizon 2020 programme.
in writing. the commission's green paper and the european parliament's report on the 'eu 2030 climate and energy policy framework' echo the ambitions of the monopolies to create new areas of profitable activity, with renewable energy and 'green technologies' as their main focus, with a focus on climate change. the debate over the size of the emission reductions, the share of renewable energy, the mandatory or non-mandatory nature of eu policy objectives, the promotion of all or part of them is a fierce one between sectors of capital active in energy-related and energy-related sectors and industries. competitions within the eu, as well as between the eu and other imperialist centres and powerful capitalist economies for the means of production, control of energy sources and transport routes, can only bring harm to the people. the condition for energy to be a social good, a lever for satisfying the needs of the people, is that the working people be freed from the domination of the monopolies and the shackles of their imperialist associations, to conquer power and make the monopolies popular property, so that they can enjoy the wealth they produce.
in writing. the reports on the accession process of bosnia-herzegovina, the fyrom and montenegro try to hide the aggravation of all the problems of the working people, which are a consequence of the capitalist restructuring promoted by the eu and bourgeois governments, in the name of eu membership and other imperialist organizations. they are demanding even tougher fiscal measures, even more extensive privatizations, opening their markets to greater exploitation of their natural resources, environment and labour by the eu monopolies. organized crime, widespread corruption of the bourgeois state apparatus and political personnel, medieval labour relations, the suppression of popular freedoms, discrimination against minorities, are inherent in the exploitative capitalist system, which the eu seeks to consolidate through its intervention in the accession processes. the wounds of the eu and nato war in the balkans and the imperialist peace that followed with the pistol to the head have left their mark of painful consequences on their peoples, so that new divisions and fragmentation of bosnia and herzegovina are threatened. despite the gigantic operation of disorientation and manipulation of consciences, the operation of eu enlargement in the balkans is meeting with the resistance of more and more workers' and popular forces, who understand that the eu is the enemy of the peoples.
in writing. i voted against the progress report on fyrom, as it contains inaccurate data and does not reflect the real situation in the country. the resolution of outstanding issues is up to the government of that country and the reduction of nationalism and provocative acts and statements are necessary elements to find a mutually acceptable solution in the spirit of good neighbourliness. in any event, the copenhagen criteria are not met.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 february 2014 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the joint debate on: - the report by cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark (com ((2013) 0161 - c7-0087/2013 - 2013/0088 ((cod)) (a7-0031/2014), and- the report by cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks (recast) (com ((2013) 0162 - c7-0088/2013 - 013/0089 ((cod)) (a7-0032/2014).
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 february 2014 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by monica luisa macovei, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds from crime in the european union (com (2012) 0085 - c7-0075/2012 - 2012/0036 (cod)) (a7-0178/2013)
mr president, first of all i would like to thank, and i in turn thank, our rapporteur on the committee on economic affairs, mr philippe de backer, with whom we worked together to achieve a good result and send a strong message on behalf of the european parliament both on the issues of the economic policy mix and on the issues of democratic legitimacy and accountability. the first is that we have stressed that it is not enough to talk about growth-friendly fiscal adjustment. the same priority was given to our proposals and commitments last year. the question is: during the past year, have we done what we should have done, have we done enough to promote a growth-friendly fiscal adjustment? it is true that we are seeing the first signs of recovery, but it is a recovery-growth that is anemic and fragile, accompanied by unprecedented levels of unemployment, which in some countries, such as spain and greece, are approaching 30%. it is true that the competitiveness gap has been reduced, but it is also true that other inequalities have widened, concerning levels of employment, social cohesion and the fight against poverty. mr president, it is a fact that the worst has been avoided, it is a fact that the 'cassandras' who spoke of the break-up of the eurozone have been debunked, it is a fact that we have encouraging signs. in greece we have not only an earlier-than-expected primary surplus, but we also have a current account surplus. all this is a reality, but today, as we are holding this debate, three months before the european elections, our top priority must be to restore public confidence in europe and in the european project, which according to all opinion polls is at an all-time low. and to do that, we need actions, not just words.
mr president, today's debate is not a routine debate, it is a substantive and very important debate. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting this report to the house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are confronted every day with the unemployment rate, the infant mortality rate, the poverty rate, the drop-out rate. the reports by the three colleagues, mr cofferati, mr gutiérrez prieto and mr de backer, give, i think, very specific 'advice', if i may use the term, to the commission. the commission has also set itself three very specific objectives: to strengthen the social dimension of the european and monetary policy, to strengthen the social pillar, and to ensure that we, as the european parliament and the european commission, finally take account not only of economic but also of social indicators. i also propose something which i think might help: in future, a joint meeting of the ministers of economic affairs and social affairs should be established on a permanent basis.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft report as it is linked to a proposal covering 160 legislative acts in various policy areas. the rapporteur suggested that the committees consider these three proposals as one package with the same timetable and adopt them as soon as possible, so that the alignment process could be completed, ideally, by the end of the current parliamentary term. in addition, the european parliament and the council will have the right to indicate the basic acts which they consider to require priority adaptation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft report as it is linked to a proposal covering 160 legislative acts in various policy areas. the rapporteur suggested that the committees consider these three proposals as one package with the same timetable and adopt them as soon as possible, so that the alignment process could be completed, ideally, by the end of the current parliamentary term. in addition, the european parliament and the council will have the right to indicate the basic acts which they consider to require priority adaptation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this draft report as it is linked to a proposal covering 160 legislative acts in various policy areas. the rapporteur suggested that the committees consider these three proposals as one package with the same timetable and adopt them as soon as possible, so that the alignment process could be completed, ideally, by the end of the current parliamentary term. in addition, the european parliament and the council will have the right to indicate the basic acts which they consider to require priority adaptation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this long-awaited proposal for the revision of the trade mark system in europe, which was submitted by the commission at the end of march 2013, after many years of work. the quality of the legislative process cannot be compromised and the opportunity offered by this revision to modernise the trademark system in europe should not be lost in the pursuit of a rapid agreement between the institutions.
in writing. the report on the regulation on the freezing and confiscation of the instruments and proceeds of crime in the european union is another step towards the harmonisation of the criminal rules of the national laws of the member states, towards the establishment of a common eu criminal law. the eu is again exploiting issues that are widely accepted by workers, such as the confiscation of assets from bribes of public officials, etc., to manipulate public consciences, to hijack consensus on the adoption of common criminal rules by the eu, in order to later extend them to more and more areas, creating its own criminal framework that will prevail over the national criminal law of the member states. the bourgeois classes of the member states are increasingly giving the eu institutions and its repressive mechanisms powers and responsibilities that touch the "hard core" of the bourgeois state, because they believe that the union of monopolies has the combined power of the monopolies to shield their power against the workers' and popular movement, the popular indignation that is fuelled by the barbaric anti-popular attack of capital on the working class and the popular strata. that is why the peoples must oppose their own coalition of will against the eu and the monopolies it serves.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on this subject, as the adoption of these minimum rules on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in the european union will harmonise the member states' freezing and confiscation regimes, enhancing mutual trust and facilitating effective crossborder cooperation. it will also be a step towards enhancing the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders, which are an important aspect of the fight against cross-border serious and organised crime in the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this long-awaited proposal for the revision of the trade mark system in europe, which was submitted by the commission at the end of march 2013, after many years of work. the quality of the legislative process cannot be compromised and the opportunity offered by this revision to modernise the trademark system in europe should not be lost in the pursuit of a rapid agreement between the institutions.
in writing. the new regulation on the operation and functioning of europol greatly strengthens its repressive role. greater interconnection and information exchange is ensured not only with the intelligence and law enforcement agencies of each eu member state, but also with the corresponding agencies of third countries, such as the usa. the extension of its mission beyond 'terrorism' and 'organised crime' to all forms of 'serious crime' facilitates the extension of its repressive function to actions of the labour 'popular' movement, which is also the main objective of all repressive mechanisms that systematically structure the eu and governments in a giant network. the monitoring of practically everything and without exception is the most characteristic element of the extension of its action and its powers, which are guaranteed by the new regulation. the amendments to the european parliament's report on the alleged 'protection of personal data' and 'parliamentary accountability' of europol are a hoax and an alibi to legitimize its repressive action and the dossier, since they neither ensure any effective protection and control, nor do the nature and functioning of these mechanisms to shield the power of monopolies allow any control.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because the last decade has seen an increase in serious and organised crime in the eu and a diversification of the forms it takes. according to europol's 2013 serious and organised crime risk assessment (socta 2013), 'serious and organised crime is constantly growing stronger and more complex, and remains a serious threat to security and prosperity in the eu'. the study also notes that 'the impact of globalisation on society and business has facilitated the emergence of new forms of criminal activity, with criminal networks exploiting loopholes in legislation, the internet and the conditions associated with the economic crisis to make illicit profits with little risk'. the internet is used for the organisation and execution of criminal activities as a communication tool, a trading venue, a recruitment platform and a financial services mechanism. it also facilitates innovative forms of cybercrime, credit card fraud and the distribution of child sexual abuse material. for all these reasons, a european police office characterised by effective and efficient cooperation and exchange of information is essential.
in writing. the report has nothing to do with the principles of solidarity and friendship between peoples. the eu seeks to exploit the moods and solidarity of young people to create half-wage, half-professional youth corps to provide an alibi and support for its imperialist interventions across the globe, which it plans and executes, sometimes under the guise of 'humanitarian disasters', sometimes under the guise of 'conflict prevention' or 'crisis management'. it is an attempt to bring young people into these imperialist missions who will provide free services to its dirty aims, to gain positions for the monopolies it represents, to exploit the peoples and the wealth of their countries. the vulgarity of its aims is expressed openly in the regulation, which even establishes 'certificates of eligibility' for the 'volunteer' participants, as 'passport' for the various eu-funded ngos and governments, to serve their imperialist ambitions under the cloak of these organisations which are the long arm of the eu's imperialist interventions. young people must reject this rottenness, this mire that the eu and governments are trying to drag them into. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore asking for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further aggravated by the events in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it aims to express the union's humanitarian values and solidarity towards those in need through the promotion of an effective and visible european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, which contributes to strengthening the union's capacity to respond to humanitarian crises and to building the capacity and resilience of vulnerable or disaster-affected communities in third countries.
in writing. i voted for it. the support sought by this proposed fund should not be seen as a substitute for the integrated policies needed to reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty. this continues to be a challenge for both the union and the member states. the resources proposed for this fund are extremely limited and far from sufficient. the aim of the project is to develop a european network of experts in the field of social protection, to provide information on the social and economic impact of the implementation of the social protection system and to provide a platform for the exchange of information on social protection and on the social and economic impact of social protection systems. focusing on people at risk of material and food deprivation, in particular the homeless, children and households with children, and on accompanying social inclusion measures will address some of the worst and most severe forms of deprivation and also enhance existing and planned eu efforts in these areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as the biocidal products regulation represents a significant and substantial revision of the existing legislation governing biocidal products by harmonising the rules on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
in writing. the reports on the "european semester" voted by the grand alliance of capital in the european parliament - the people's party, social democrats, liberals - reflect the demand of the monopolies for even greater intensity of the anti-people attack against the working class and popular strata throughout the eu. the political staff of the plutocracy is calling for the unwavering implementation, without any relaxation, of capitalist restructuring in every eu member state, with or without a memorandum, regardless of budget deficits and debt, to further reduce the price of labour power in order to ensure monopoly profitability. it calls on the eu and its institutions, the bourgeois governments, the parties of capital and the euro-path, to tighten the anti-people chains even more, under the central guidance and supervision of the eu. the common concern of all the political forces serving the bourgeois administration, whatever mix they propose, is how to enhance the 'competitiveness' of the european union groups by intensifying the exploitation of workers. the peoples can turn the agony of the bourgeoisie into a nightmare by strengthening the communist parties that oppose the eu.
mr president, commissioner, commercial air transport is celebrating its centenary this year and the industry can boast that aviation safety is now at an all-time high worldwide. in europe, in fact, the data show that we have achieved the highest level of security in the world. in 2013 there were no fatal accidents in easa member states, despite 6 million commercial flights and more than 800 million passengers carried. the challenge of aviation safety is not about the present, but about the future. the number of flights is expected to double by 2030. the enormous capacity problems already observed in europe's airspace and airports will reach a peak, creating real threats to flight safety. in the face of such a scenario, we can only take precautions today to ensure the safety of the millions of citizens who choose to fly every year. the text agreed with the council will help to harmonise aviation safety elements and will strengthen the role of the community central database and of easa. it is an important step which will naturally add to the great contribution to security that cesar technologies will have from 2020 onwards. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. thank you very much.
i would like to congratulate mrs sehnalová on her excellent report. the ecall system already exists and is used, but not at pan-european level. it's a technology that is estimated to save 2,500 lives a year, so it's a measure that will make a significant contribution to our goal of reducing fatal accidents by 50 percent by 2020. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. obviously, there are many factors that lead to the loss of life on asphalt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 26 february 2014, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr evžen tošenovský, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on guidelines for trans-european telecommunications networks and repealing decision no 1336/97/ec (com (2013) 0329 - c7-0149/2013 - 2011/0299 (cod)) (a7-0272/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 26 february 2014, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites (com (2012) 0721 - c7-0394/2012 - 2012/0340 (cod)) - (a7-0460/2013).
the vote will take place on thursday, 27 february 2014. written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the efd group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment, including the creation of a youth guarantee fund. it's good, but not much. i am afraid that in order to combat the problem of unemployment, it is necessary to focus our attention both on improving the business climate in europe and on the link between the labour market and education. it is not possible that there are so many millions of unemployed people with higher education degrees and we are getting messages from the business world that they lack qualified staff. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. to end and replace the practice of repetitive pre-training programmes that facilitate entrepreneurs to hire highly qualified staff at low cost. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european employment strategy.
commissioner, this weekend i was in three different cities in greece: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. i spoke to them there about the youth guarantee initiative. there are high expectations on the part of our young people, as there are high expectations on the part of the local communities. you yourself will be in another greek city, kavala, next week. we are making efforts as greece, despite the recession, to make use of the youth guarantee, and we have succeeded. forty thousand jobs will be created in 2014; the amount to be allocated is eur 340 million, half of which comes from the youth initiative and the other half from the european social fund. but there are difficulties, commissioner. the difficulties are the recession that is knocking on greece's door permanently, not to say that it is in greece's living room. the difficulty is that 90% of firms have fewer than 10 employees and therefore it is difficult to create apprenticeship or job opportunities. we want more! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want more. the president interrupts the speaker.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on outermost regions, the structural funds and other eu programmes, a report which recognises all the problems associated with the outermost regions and recalls the need for a real and profound change in the new programming period. the eu should make better use of the advantages and opportunities that the outermost regions can offer the union, as in issues such as tackling climate change, research and technology and the union's relations with third countries, these regions are central to the union's development plans and prospects. on the other hand, the eu has an interest in supporting these regions, which suffer from serious and permanent physical and demographic problems which hamper their development. therefore, it is essential to have and promote synergies between the structural funds and all other union funds, strategies and policies in order to fulfil the prospects of both the union and the outermost regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on outermost regions, the structural funds and other eu programmes, a report which recognises all the problems associated with the outermost regions and recalls the need for a real and profound change in the new programming period. the eu should make better use of the advantages and opportunities that the outermost regions can offer the union, as in issues such as tackling climate change, research and technology and the union's relations with third countries, these regions are central to the union's development plans and prospects. on the other hand, the eu has an interest in supporting these regions, which suffer from serious and permanent physical and demographic problems which hamper their development. therefore, it is essential to have and promote synergies between the structural funds and all other union funds, strategies and policies in order to fulfil the prospects of both the union and the outermost regions.
in writing. according to article 318 of the lisbon treaty, the european commission is required to 'present to the european parliament and the council an evaluation report on the union's finances based on the results achieved', in particular in relation to the discharge procedure. for the financial year 2012, the european commission presented the third evaluation report taking into account the various recommendations of the european parliament in the previous two reports, including the link between the different eu programmes and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the evaluation of the union's finances, which is a response to the european commission's report. it is of particular importance that the european commission report explains in a simple and concise manner how eu spending contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives at union and global level. in addition, the european court of auditors should monitor the progress made by the commission in the design and operation of its risk management and internal control procedures, and make recommendations if any shortcomings are identified, and report on these issues in the commission's report.
in writing. the kke voted against all the regulations that make up the so-called '4th package' for the single european railway area, which is a single package that completes the full privatisation of rail transport, networks and infrastructure in the european union. the handing over of railways, all the public infrastructure associated with them, to monopolies serves to enhance the 'competitiveness' - the profitability of business groups - that the eu serves. it is a major blow not only to working conditions and labour rights but also to the railway workers' right to strike itself. it is a serious deterioration in the quality and safety of rail transport, and it has raised fares to the detriment of the working class. the workers, the labour movement in the eu countries must draw conclusions about the role and character of the eu, the union of this capital. to be effective, the struggles must target the power of the monopolies, confront the eu itself and its anti-people structure, and be directed towards the goal of breaking free from its anti-people chains, with radical changes in power and the economy.
in writing. the kke opposes the so-called 'third programme of action of the union in the field of health 2014-2020' because it further promotes the anti-people policy of the eu and the urban governments of the member states in the field of health. it reinforces the notion of "individual responsibility" for health and "competitiveness", i.e. the greater penetration of monopoly groups in health, resulting in the greater degradation of public health systems, the payment of health services - whether in the public or private sector - from the backlog of the popular family. this policy, which is applied in a uniform manner in all eu member states, leads public health systems to compete with business groups, to "sell" health services, which are now paid for by workers, putting their own hand deep in their pocket, but also through their insurance funds, which are transformed into customers of either businessmen or public health structures. the workers' and people's movement must intensify its struggle against the commercialisation of health promoted in all eu member states and governments, to demand the development of a single, exclusively public and completely free health system, with the main orientation being the prevention and abolition of all business activity.
in writing. the kke voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation on transeuropean telecommunications networks, because it promotes the completion of the eu's single capital market, privatisation in the telecommunications and digital services sectors. fifty billion euros, hot money from the eu budget, looted from the people's income, are destined to go into the pockets of the monopoly giants of telecommunications, digital networks, internet service providers, the information technology industry, for the development of high-speed broadband networks, so that their profitability is guaranteed even in areas where the investment does not benefit business groups, remote and sparsely populated peripheries, island regions. the development of digital infrastructures will benefit the monopoly capital as a whole, which will gain access to new markets within the eu single market. the big losers will again be the working class and the popular strata who will either be forced to pay double and overpriced for the infrastructure and use of digital services, or will remain excluded from them. it is once again confirmed that the satisfaction of the people's needs is in conflict with the eu, the alliance of monopolies, and requires its overthrow.
mr president, after the tragic days ukraine has been through, everyone, inside and outside the country, must treat this matter with seriousness and absolute responsibility. the european union must not repeat the mistakes it made in the balkans in the 1990s. first, we must guarantee and facilitate the holding of free and fair elections as soon as possible. it should also be made clear that the union does not identify with specific sections of the ukrainian opposition, nor does it consider extremist pro-nazi nationalist forces to be legitimate representatives. the parties in the european parliament have a responsibility to safeguard the legitimacy of the transitional government and no one, but no one, has the right to exploit the dynamics of the situation for temporary party benefits. secondly, the territorial integrity of ukraine must be safeguarded. a series of articles in the international press referring to the so-called artificial unit are misleading. the unity in ukraine is no more artificial than in other european countries. thirdly, we must ensure that russia is actively involved in finding a solution, otherwise there can be no solution. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment. )
in writing. the situation in ukraine is, in my view, more dangerous than any other situation that has arisen in the last three years (syria, arab spring, iran). the situation is developing in the russian hinterland and it is understood that the russians have every interest in securing their own influence in the region; the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and the region of crimea is host to large russian military and naval forces. i am afraid that russia must also realize that there are also vested interests of europe and the west in general in the issue of 'ukraine' and both sides should, i imagine, replace the power, which at the moment is in a vacuum, by serious political forces and not by supporting either extremist or fraudulent male and female. the european union (eu) has so far shown no courage. it is certain that there is poverty among the ukrainian people. on the other hand, russia, as a major energy supplier, has the potential to give ukraine's economy a much better breathing space than the eu is proposing, by simply discounting the price of the energy resources it supplies to ukraine. i therefore believe that the eu, aware of this problem, should be very bold in its proposals for financial aid to ukraine.
mr president, we are now very close to an era in which drones will be part of the defence infrastructure of every state. it is therefore necessary for the european union to have a common policy on the context in which they are used. the view is that these aircraft are instruments of peace and security. there is no doubt that their use is multifaceted and extremely beneficial in many areas beyond defence, such as mapping, border control, firefighting and agriculture. but unfortunately, in the last decade we have seen the widespread use of armed drones for extrajudicial targeted killings in the territories of third countries. such operations are carried out under a veil of secrecy, mainly by the united states of america, and outside the framework of international legality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. in order to prevent a repetition of humanitarian tragedies such as those that have occurred in recent years, notably in pakistan and yemen, the union should oppose such practices openly and clearly, should call for greater transparency in the use of armed drones by third countries and should reach a common position on their use in the light of respect for human rights and international humanitarian law. the military use of drones does not raise new factual issues under international humanitarian law and the law of armed conflict. technology is not the key to solving the problem. the only solution is to use it properly.
madam president, the very fact that the use of unmanned combat aerial vehicles is being discussed, rather than a complete ban, is further proof of the reactionary nature of the european union. it seems that the thousands of innocent people who have already been killed by these weapons, and by illegal flights from the coast of sicily, are not enough. the development of new lethal weapons systems is part of the decisions of the european union summit, which are intensifying its imperialist aggression. the european union is seeking to develop the manufacture and use of such weapons systems by its war industries and the consortium promoted by france, germany, greece, italy, the netherlands, poland and spain, and aims at the unimpeded use of airspace and the future activation of these weapons against the peoples of the member states as well. billions of euros from the plundering of the people's income will be directed to the monopolies of the war industry, to war research programmes, to the improvement of the european union's satellite and other systems necessary for the new weapons, at the same time that the european union is dismantling the greek defense industry because it does not respond to the ambitions of the monopolies. the achievements of science and technology are not only not being used to satisfy the needs of the people but, on the contrary, are being used to sow death and destruction in the ruthless competition of the imperialists for profit and influence... (the president interrupts)
on behalf of the efd group. the report by the rapporteur on a subject as important as human rights is full of enthusiasm, contains many positive elements but also some - i will not say negative - unrealistic elements. in particular, apart from our opposition to free access to drugs and our questions on euthanasia, paragraph 42 of the report refers to the wider principle of migration and the principle of non-refoulement. the principle of the return of illegal immigrants and the conclusion of readmission agreements are the most practical tools available to prevent and address illegal immigration and should also be a permanent element of the european union's external relations with third countries. that's where we disagree! moreover, the above is guaranteed by laws and treaties of increased formal validity vis-à-vis that exposure. in addition, some of the points in the report, such as those on freezing mechanisms in member states' legislative procedures and the drawing up of scoreboards, i consider to be outside the scope of the european parliament's competence and the principle of proportionality must be respected. i think it is important, in a time of economic crisis, to focus our attention on safeguarding the rights to work, social welfare and health. we do not need to go far to third countries; the european union, with its budget cuts and in other memorandum countries, is currently doing very poorly in protecting fundamental human rights for the most vulnerable groups of the population.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. - mr[nbsp ]president, i am pleased that we are discussing here a flegt (forest law governance, enforcement and trade) agreement with a very important country, indonesia, which possesses one of the most important rainforests in the world – albeit a rainforest that is very quickly becoming depleted. the flegt agreement is crucial because it gives some hope for a change in the rhythm of depletion of this important natural resource. a number of specific issues have been mentioned by the rapporteur, mr[nbsp ]jadot, and are included in the report. i would call on the commission to take very close note of the points made with regard to the indonesian timber legality assurance system: how it is malfunctioning, and the challenges in order for it to function properly and for the flegt agreement to work properly. i would like to take a moment to praise the flegt agreements as a form of european policy instrument. unlike many other trade agreements we have, the flegt agreements are, in a way, bilateral trade agreements, which respect the sovereign rights of the nations concerned. as a model of broad stakeholder participation, they could be followed by other types of trade agreement with other partners. on a negative note, however, in my capacity as parliament’s rapporteur on the commission green paper for forest protection, i must mention that the commission, in this green paper, has neglected all of parliament’s proposals. it has taken no account of parliament’s plans on any of the legal tools that parliament asked it to introduce. i would like to hear a reply from the commissioner on this point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all very well aware of the developments and the situation in venezuela, but not of course the western media, which presents the facts in a biased way in favour of the opposition. they even went so far as to post pictures of scenes of violence by the repressive forces in greece and claim that these are taking place in caracas. we know the situation in venezuela from the social work that is being done there, namely reducing unemployment, eliminating illiteracy, raising the living standards of the people. we know the situation from the political work too. in recent years, venezuela has held more democratic elections at all levels than any other european country. the opposition cannot accept democratic rules. the streets are led by the well-fed, children of wealthy families who lose their privileges. the european parliament must not consent to this attack on a sovereign people, it must not consent to the expansionist policy of the united states. we stand in solidarity with the people and government of venezuela who are defending their conquests and social rights. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer "blue card". mr. chairman, i think i've answered that. i do not know what country you are from, otherwise i could refer to your own experiences and to what the media in your country show. obviously there is violence, there are riots, there are clashes, there are dead. have you ever thought about what events are responsible for death? we all admit that there is violence. the question is where it starts, where it goes and how it is dealt with. and i have argued that venezuela is a democratic country and now it is under attack aimed at undermining the gains that have been made. the temptation is oil - several colleagues have admitted this - we have known this for so long. the european parliament must therefore defend a sovereign people who are willingly taking a course that some may not like.
mr president, it is a fact that many european countries have been affected by climate change in recent times - from spain, britain, portugal, to greece and italy. it is also a fact that climate change is evolving. we have a series of reports from international organizations -- from the intergovernmental panel on climate change report to, earlier, the world bank report and nicholas stern's report -- that show that prevention is the best way to protect both the climate and the economy and the well-being of citizens. we know what we have to do, but what is needed is the political will to achieve it. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. on the other hand, we have a number of instruments, such as the european solidarity fund, for disasters caused by climate change. the resources are limited and must therefore be invested in the right way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the ecological principle must also be applied to compensate for the damage in a climate-sensitive way.
in writing. first of all, i would like to express my solidarity with the citizens affected by the adverse weather conditions. prevention in the field of natural disaster response is of paramount importance as it is less costly than responding to natural disasters. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency and the establishment of a european environment agency. it should also be made clear that local and regional authorities play a vital role in the disaster management cycle and must be actively involved in the design and implementation of disaster risk reduction and prevention strategies. finally, i cannot fail to mention the ongoing negotiations on the reform of the eu solidarity fund. we are aiming to complete the negotiations in the current parliamentary term to make the fund more efficient and flexible. in this connection, i support the introduction of a criterion for regional disasters, but with a minimum activation threshold of 1% of regional gdp. i also welcome the introduction of the possibility of making advances at the request of the affected country to deal more quickly and immediately with the consequences of disasters.
mr[nbsp ]president, on behalf of the s&d group i would like to propose an amendment to amendment[nbsp ]2. it is the deletion of the latter part of the amendment, namely the words ‘and to advocate the international prohibition of combat drones’. i propose the deletion of those words.
in writing. the report's findings on prostitution, exploitation and violence against women are devoid of any substance and are a hypocritical evasion of the social causes of the phenomenon, which the report is trying to hide. prostitution is a phenomenon inherent in exploitative societies, it is the ultimate form of exploitation and commodification of man himself. the report's position that trafficking in human beings is increasing 'due to the growth of organised crime' obscures the real causes of the phenomenon. the anti-people policy of the eu and the bourgeois governments is generating and magnifying poverty, unemployment, commodifying health, welfare, education. the false separation of allegedly 'voluntary' and 'coercive' exploits coercion to justify 'legal' prostitution. the 'scandinavian model' presented as a solution is a management option which neither wants nor can eliminate the phenomenon, since it leaves intact the causes that give rise to it and multiply it. it is the exploitative capitalist system that undermines the value of man, that drives young women into prostitution by the hand of hunger and the corruption of conscience. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
in writing. the european investigation warrant directive promotes the strategic planning of the eu and its member state governments to harmonise criminal rules and criminal procedures, in a common framework of eu criminal rules, which, together with the giant web of eu and national repression mechanisms, chains even these civil rights to the most reactionary limits imposed by the principles and values of the alliance of capital, the european union. the criminal harmonisation of the rules in the eu is gradually seeking to achieve its ultimate goal of stifling restriction, the abolition of democratic rights and popular freedoms, the exercise of the dictatorship of monopolies, without restrictions and pretexts.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament denounces the joint resolution on ukraine submitted by the political parties of capital and the euro-path in the european parliament. the european parliament openly and defiantly supports the eu's open intervention in ukraine, in its struggle with the other imperialist powers, the usa and russia, which are fighting in that country for control of its wealth and geopolitical influence. the political representatives of capital in the european parliament are spearheading the imperialist intervention, linking, supporting and strengthening the most reactionary forces in ukraine, spearheading the anti-communist-anti-socialist campaign together with the fascist-criminal groups, sister organizations of the nazi golden dawn. the kke group in the european parliament expresses its solidarity with the communists of ukraine who are fighting to open up another path of development in ukraine against the monopolies, the rule of the capitalists, in line with the needs of the people, for socialism. the imperialists of the eu, the usa, russia are the enemies of the ukrainian people. the only interest of the working people is to decisively repel their interference, to take their fate into their own hands, raising their own flag of struggle for radical changes in power and the economy.
in writing. the kke voted against the report because it uses the protection of human rights as a pretext to justify the anti-people policy of the eu and bourgeois governments in its member states and to legitimize the imperialist interventions of the eu. it proposes the creation of a commission 'control mechanism' to ensure that member states' national legislation is in line with eu 'values' as conceived by the association of monopolies. these are the values imposed by the wars and military interventions of the eu, formerly against yugoslavia, more recently in libya, mali, the central african republic, where the eu-usa-nato compete with other imperialist powers for control of the resources, the energy transport routes, the exploitation of the peoples. the european union is supporting the most reactionary forces, the descendants of the nazis, against peoples such as those in ukraine, to achieve these aims. it uses "human rights" and "democracy", meaning the interests of the monopolies, to bloodshed peoples in the name of their protection. the political representatives of the monopolies challenge the people, posing as the "protector" of human rights, while taking the lead in crushing popular freedoms, suppressing trade union freedoms, enlarging the mechanisms of repression, demolishing workers' rights, spreading poverty, destitution and misery.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 march 2014 at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs inês cristina zuber, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on equality between women and men in 2012 [2013/2156 (ini). i shall give the floor to the rapporteur first.
mr president, since the commissioner took over, we have had watered-down legislation on tobacco with no plain packaging; a proposal for honey with no labelling of the gm pollen it contains, against the decision of the european court of justice; approval for the cultivation of gm corn; and now we have a decision that – for the first time in this parliament – has been rejected by all the political groups and all the committees with a huge majority – almost unanimity. something is wrong. i call on the commissioner to take the message on board and to understand that this type of proposal cannot be accepted. if the plenary rejects his proposal tomorrow, i call on him to resign, because there is constantly something wrong with the proposals he brings to this parliament.
mr president, commissioner, i wanted to raise the issue of genetically modified maize 1507, and i am glad you are here. you know very well that in the general affairs council the overwhelming majority of the states - 19 states - were against authorizing the cultivation of gm maize, 4 countries were absent, including germany, and only 5 were in favour, of which only one, spain, is interested in the cultivation of gm maize. you know very well that the majority of citizens in the european union are opposed to this cultivation and that is also what the european parliament has expressed in its resolution. i would like to inform you that the green group and other colleagues have collected signatures. if the commission proceeds with authorization, we will lodge a motion of censure with the commission, and you can be sure that we will do so. we do not want the commission to take such action before the european elections.
mr president, the communist party of greece condemns the actions of the nazi-fascist forces, the anti-communist campaign which is escalating in the pursuit of the banning of the communist party of ukraine and of communist ideology, the acts of vandalism against monuments to lenin and other anti-fascist soviet monuments, which are taking place in ukraine. the rise in the government of ukraine, with the support of the european union and the us, of reactionary fascist forces such as right sector and the svoboda party - ideological descendants of the nazis - is being used to promote the geopolitical goals of the eu monopolies in eurasia. the communist party of greece demands that any attempt to ban the communist party of ukraine and the communist ideology be stopped here and now. the committee condemns the open imperialist intervention of the european union, the united states and nato in ukraine, amid an intensification of the fierce confrontation with capitalist russia over control of its markets, energy and transport routes, which raises the risk of a military conflict with tragic consequences for the peoples of the region.
mr president, on 6 march in central athens police forces brutally attacked thousands of unemployed workers and trade unionists who were demonstrating for measures to protect the unemployed. in greece, where unemployment is 27% and youth over 60%, the authorities refused to meet with a delegation of trade unions, while at the same time, on the orders of the coalition government of new democracy and pasok, the forces of repression attacked the protesters. the coalition government is trying to use the state's increased violence and repression against the workers to enforce its barbaric anti-people policy to secure the profits of the monopolies. we condemn the anti-people policy of the european union, the co-government of capital, new democracy and pasok, which goes hand in hand with the escalation of authoritarianism. all these people are very much in the dark if they think that by suppressing them they will crush the class trade union movement. the communist party of greece with greater determination will continue the struggle for relief measures for the unemployed, permanent stable work for all with rights.
madam president, given the massive, almost unanimous rejection of the proposal, i would like to call for the resignation of commissioner borg. (applause)
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain to support 560 redundant workers in 198 textile enterprises in the valencia region for the sum of eur 840 000. the continuing economic crisis in spain further highlights the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as a tool of european union social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. the spanish regions are subject to a process of rationalization and drastic cuts. the strengthening of the european globalisation adjustment fund will be able to contribute to the fight against unemployment without significantly burdening the efforts of fiscal consolidation of spain's national and regional budgets.
in writing. the proposed regulation seeks to place full control of seed production and marketing in the hands of the few dominant multinationals in the global trade in plant reproductive material. this proposal is a blow to small farms and businesses, but also to the protection of the environment, biodiversity and food security. we trade with movements and organizations that fight for environmental protection, biodiversity conservation and food security, we support the right of millions of small farmers, organizations and ordinary citizens to preserve, freely exchange and circulate traditional seeds. i voted against the proposal for a regulation and i call on the greek government to do the same. to join the majority of greek farmers in voting against the bill in the council debate, but also to immediately stop the promotion of gmos in europe
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the granting of an ee guarantee to the european investment bank to cover losses from financing activities supporting investment projects outside the union for the period 2014-2020. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ivailo kalfin, who has proposed raising the overall ceiling of the european investment bank's financing activities under the eu guarantee from the commission's original proposal of eur 28 million to eur 30 million. the rapporteur's proposal not only succeeded in establishing the position of the whole of the european community, but in the interinstitutional negotiations which followed it was also accepted by the council. parliament also reached agreement with the council on important issues such as the regional ceilings for the bank's financing activities, greater consideration of environmental standards in the allocation of finance and the need to assess the impact of finance on the development of the country receiving it. by overriding this compromise text, the bank is enabled, under the cover of the eu budget guarantee, to finance projects outside the eu in order to support the union's external action and promote its role as a major global player.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the annual report of the european investment bank for the year 2012. the european investment bank plays a key role in supporting the european economy, boosting growth and creating jobs. it is an important tool for achieving the europe 2020 objectives in areas such as innovation, competitiveness and growth-enhancing infrastructure. this is why i would like to highlight the achievements of the european investment bank for 2012, such as the increase in its lending to support development projects in eu countries. i would also like to express my support for the position expressed in the report that support for small and mediumsized enterprises in the eu should be one of the main priorities of the activities of the european investment bank, since small and mediumsized enterprises represent the 'engine' of the european economy and create jobs. finally, i would like to underline the bank's substantial contribution to the promotion of the eu's external policies and i would also point out that its cooperation with other international financial institutions should be governed by transparency.
rapporteur. - madam president, may i also start by thanking everybody for having worked so hard in the past two years on this dossier. without this incredible commitment by everybody, we would not have been able to be here today and voting on the data protection package in plenary tomorrow, thus sending to european citizens the message that the european parliament is aware of their concerns, that we are taking them very seriously, and that the european parliament is working for the interests of european citizens. may i also thank the commission and commissioner reding and her entire team for their commitment, work and good cooperation. we enjoyed working on this file. my appreciation goes also to the greek presidency. i know and recognise the effort that the presidency is putting into this file, but the presidency will also allow me to express my dissatisfaction and frustration about the fact that it is the council, and at least some member states, which are the reasons why we will not be able to reach the goal that we had set, namely to have the data protection reform package passed by the end of this parliament’s mandate. i doubt that the governments concerned will be able to explain this as necessary to citizens in their respective countries, particularly in view of the upcoming elections to the european parliament. parliament has been calling for years for a comprehensive single instrument on data protection that would cover both the private and the public sectors, including the police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this is why this parliament has always, right from the beginning, regarded the proposed regulation and directive as a package: what we call the ‘package approach’, and all our legislative work on the data protection reform has been conducted on precisely this premise. let me remind everybody that there was widespread agreement on this even before the two legislative proposals were issued. it was the report by axel voss back in 2010 which stressed the idea of a comprehensive and consistent approach, also covering processing in the areas of police and judicial cooperation, including processing at domestic level. as a consequence, we followed parallel procedures in our work as regards the timing and content of the regulation and directive, and both i and jan albrecht – and also the commission, as repeatedly stated by commissioner reding – confirmed this commitment to the package approach several times. i do not need to elaborate on the regulation. jan albrecht has already presented the necessary facts, which i fully endorse, and i would like to thank jan once again for all the work and commitment he and his team have put into this file. the directive itself, if approved tomorrow, will bring significant improvements to the processing of personal data by police and judicial authorities in criminal matters. but let me be very frank and very direct. it has come to my knowledge that a number of colleagues have decided to vote against the directive tomorrow. colleagues, how exactly will you justify to your voters that you choose to protect them against, for example, google, but not against police and judicial authorities that tend to act arbitrarily? how can we explain to european citizens that we will vote in favour of the nsa report tomorrow, which reproaches a third country for the hidden actions of its secret services, while we, as european union member states, refuse to comply with similar rules? and how will you explain, in the event that the directive is not adopted by this parliament tomorrow, that it will be the european parliament itself that has abandoned the package approach and that we have killed the directive, doing the dirty work that the governments of some member states would so much like to do? i shall finish with an appeal to colleagues to do exactly that: to show european citizens that we are taking their fundamental rights seriously by voting in favour of both legislative instruments tomorrow so that they can be negotiated with the european council as a whole during the next legislature.
rapporteur. - madam president, may i also thank my colleagues for their comments, their good words and also their support. i have also noticed with some satisfaction that all interventions today have reaffirmed the package approach and its importance. may i express the hope that colleagues will also confirm this with the vote tomorrow? after all, it is about our credibility: the credibility of the european parliament vis-à-vis the european citizen. so may i once again appeal to colleagues to vote tomorrow in favour of both reports, the regulation and the directive. of course i will follow what some colleagues have said, for instance sophie in ‘t veld or carlos coelho. the package presented is not perfect, this is clear. but it is the right step in the right direction, and we should take this into consideration. most of all it will be a necessary and important message to our citizens that we are taking their concerns very much into consideration, especially in such difficult times – sensitive times – after the nsa scandal and all the other revelations. but our vote tomorrow will also send the necessary message to the council and to member states to speed up their preparations and come to the trilogue, so that we can finalise this package and present to our citizens a real and effective reform of the data protection package.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure to axel voss. mr voss, i must confess i am very, very surprised by this statement you have made. after two years of joint work on this package of regulations and directives, it is a little bold to say that the wishes of a group in this house have not been taken into account, if i may say so openly, especially when this group has not put any proposals on the table in the area of the directive, but has merely pursued a delaying tactic, similar to the delaying tactics that some governments of some member states have shown here.
mr president, may i join in first of all in thanking the rapporteur, claude moraes, and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work and in expressing my deep disappointment about the fact that the european union, the council and the member states have not reacted at all on the nsa revelations. as a european citizen, i feel offended and abandoned. there is maybe one positive aspect regarding the nsa scandal: it was a real wake-up call regarding data protection reform in the european union. i will never forget the words that the german chancellor, angela merkel, used during the german electoral campaign a few months ago. she said, when she was asked about the nsa scandal, that the only answer to the nsa scandal is more data protection at european level and fast, as soon as possible. i hope that certain political groups in the house will follow the words of their most prominent representative.
mr kelly, very briefly: in terms of choosing who is going to take the floor in the frame of catch-the-eye, the chair needs to ensure that there is a political balance between the speakers, despite the different level of influence between the different political groups. in terms of misusing the blue cards, i agree with you, but it is also a matter of conscience of each other. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12[nbsp ]march[nbsp ]2014. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the interim report by mr salvatore iacolino, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation on the european public prosecutor's office (com (2013) 0534 - 2013/0255) (app)) (a7-0141/2014)
mr albrecht, since you also mentioned the absence of the council, a point raised by ms gräßle, i would like to recommend discussing the issue with the political groups, because it is the political groups which fix the agenda in relation to the presence of the council.
mr albrecht, we understand your point, but colleague bonanini is not in position and is not allowed to respond on behalf of another colleague.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 12 march 2014 at 12 noon
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the 2013 progress report on turkey (2013/2945 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, i too welcome the report by mrs oomen-ruijten, which complements her previous reports and presents as much as possible the situation in that country, forming a single whole with her previous reports, each part not explicitly contradicting them. turkey is undoubtedly a major economic power and a country with an increased geopolitical role in the middle east region. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. as the rapporteur rightly points out in her report, the internal situation in turkey is worrying, marked by scandals, corruption, the adoption of laws that call into question the constitutional separation of powers and fundamental rights, such as the recent law on internet censorship and the increase in the powers of the national intelligence service. turkey stubbornly refuses to sign international agreements, does not respect the agreements with the european union, has not implemented for the eighth consecutive year the provisions of the eu-turkey association agreement and its additional protocol, does not recognise a member state of the european union, the threat of casus belli against greece persists, violations of greek territorial waters continue and the sovereign rights of the union's member states are not respected. from the lion's tail! i would also point out that the european union, in the context of pre-accession aid, has given 900 million for 2013 to turkey. the european union must finally take a broader look at the way in which it is going and concentrate on the major problems affecting the citizens of the union. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action. the speech of diplomacy sometimes embellishes situations and overlooks events but does not prevent them from occurring. we need to speak clearly to turkey.
madam president, at 7 a.m. this morning, the same day that we are discussing turkey's european prospects in the european parliament, a 15-year-old boy, berkin elvan, took his last breath in a hospital in istanbul. berkin was hit by tear gas in june at the gezi park events. at that time he was not participating in the demonstration; he went to buy bread and since then he's been in a coma for 269 days. this death is the eighth related to the gezi park events. and he, like all the others, will go unpunished. the boy's family accused the government of protecting the guilty. but there was no reaction. we must not forget the events in gezi park here in parliament. the demands for more democracy, transparency, accountability have not been met. the human rights situation continues to deteriorate and, while mr erdoğan is under suspicion for corruption, the repressive system is becoming increasingly harsh. today's tragic death of a young child calls on all of us to join our voices for true democracy in turkey and for a definitive end to police violence. turkey and everywhere. within and outside the european union.
madam president, i listened carefully to the presidency and the commissioner. it is true that this report on the situation in turkey has a number of positive elements in favour of turkey, but in the meantime a great deal of what has been said has been contradicted by reality: the lack of political stability and the comments on the moral situation in relation to the government, the incidents that happen every time in gezi park, the death of many people, the journalists who are in prison, the question of justice in general, the doubts that exist. and let us suppose that all of this is due to disturbances caused by various causes. however, there are issues that are entirely up to the government, such as the recognition of the european union as a whole, the recognition of the ankara protocol, i.e. consistency with what turkey is seeking. there are still questions about whether turkey wants to become a member of the european union? i think that needs to be clarified. they shouldn't exist. we assume that turkey wants to become a member of the european union. but he wants to be a member as is. without changing anything. and this is a big political issue, which must be judged in political terms. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is not only a political union, but it is also a political union, and it is not only a political union, but it is also a political union.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, commissioner, shortly before the european elections, and with growing euroscepticism, we are called upon to convince the european citizens that the union is useful to its citizens in both small and large matters. the single european air transport market over the last 20 years has made flying affordable for millions of new passengers. but, the increasing traffic puts enormous pressure on air traffic management. and as traffic escalates, we'll have more and more delays, fewer and more expensive flights, and questions about flight safety. air traffic services are not prepared for the 21st century and the combination of safe and cheap flights, without delays, has, unfortunately, an expiration date. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the air traffic control system is properly functioning. a network of stereotypes, of prejudices, but also of interests. the present situation of 38 different and incompatible air navigation systems and 60 different control centres is unacceptably harmful to the passenger and to the companies in the union. and of course this has nothing to do with whether the service provider is public or private. the u.s. provides them publicly, just like we do, but with one provider instead of 38 and, ultimately, at half the cost. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's airports are able to compete with those of the east. the changes needed are organisational and not about staff competence and ability. it is an achievement of air traffic services that the great increase in traffic over the last 20 years has been achieved with the highest safety guarantee we know and of course require when flying in europe. but to take the next step we must move on to rationalization, that is to say finally to the realization of the single european sky. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. this will mean a reduction in environmental costs, but also in economic costs for companies and passengers. the report strengthens the performance mechanism so that member states comply with the targets set by the european commission. we are strengthening national surveillance. we are creating conditions for transparency in the provision of support services and bringing, for the first time, the human factor to the centre of the single sky. the single european sky is a bet on the substance and symbolism of the union. the council's shortsighted obstructionism means that parliament must send a strong message tomorrow. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteurs for the very good report and the excellent cooperation we have had.
the council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european semester is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. we are in fact closing five years of a particularly severe economic crisis, for which specific measures have been taken and specific actions have been taken, such as the stability and growth pact, which is now considered binding and is not being violated by either large or small countries, and enormous changes have also taken place in our region, around europe. the european union has been able to face these changes, whether it be the arab spring or what is happening now in the former soviet republics, together. i'm not sure. despite these efforts, intergovernmentalism remains the key operating element and the main method of working in practice. the tripartite dialogue on specific issues is being dragged out and conflicts between member states are being fought over minor interests. this was not the case at the beginning of the european union. however, this union, by offering 50 years of prosperity and peace to all its citizens, has given them the right and the luxury to be very critical of it. we must emphasize the negatives, but also the positives, and we must note, mr president, that it is not possible to respond effectively to the questions raised by our colleagues without a real european governance. and at the moment there is no real european government. we need a different europe. what some call 'more europe', but different, where it will be clear what is left to the member states and what is subject to a genuine european governance, which can make the changes needed, whether in taxation, in the fight against tax evasion, in coordinating legal systems or in functioning as a genuine single area. this must be the issue for the next council after the elections, in which i personally hope that euroscepticism, as previously presented by mr farage, will not have a particularly prominent place.
mr president, fifteen years after the war in yugoslavia, nato, the european union and the united states, in their confrontation with capitalist russia, are threatening the peoples of europe with a new bloodbath. the conflict is about control of energy markets and transmission routes and the dominance of the european union monopolies over their competitors, about the imposition of one part of the ukrainian bourgeoisie at the expense of the other. with the support of the european union and the united states, fascist forces, the armed arm of capital, have climbed into the government to bring even greater exploitation, poverty and misery. this is the ukraine that the european union and the united states of america want. this is what the overthrow of socialism, the domination of the imperialist alliances of capital, the imposition of savage anti-people measures for the last twenty years have brought. the lies that the european union will bring peace and prosperity to europe have been debunked. we call on the workers in ukraine to organize their struggle for their own power against every imperialist, against the monopolies that breed war and fascism.
in writing. i voted against the zanoni report because the revised directive, after negotiations with the member states, represents a setback compared with the much-promised adoption of it by both the committee on petitions and the committee on the environment. the weakening of the commission raises concerns and brings back memories of its extremely problematic and all-carter implementation. one of the most important points of the revision of the directive that we had achieved, namely the inclusion of shale gas extraction activities in the projects requiring mandatory environmental impact assessment, was abandoned under pressure from the member states. powerful economic interests involved in major infrastructure projects, public and private, have prevailed at the expense of the environment. the strengthening of the evaluation system by the use of accredited, well-qualified and independent experts, in order to avoid corruption, was limited to the use of 'competent experts'. the mandatory monitoring of the project from start to finish has become simply 'monitoring where appropriate'. exceptions and derogations were granted for projects of national importance and emergency. a recent bill in greece multiplies the activities allowed even in natura sites by adding sewage and waste management facilities, even if the project is evaluated negatively, provided that the project is considered to be of significant public interest.
in writing. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i believe that recent events are upsetting and reviewing the realities of turkey and the attitude that the european union should have towards it. the only way to do that is to postpone any discussion of the country's accession to the eu. in particular, there has been a recent increase in the questioning of the constitutional separation of powers and human rights violations, internet censorship, etc.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the european people know very well that the troika and the memorandum were not a one-way street, as the report unfortunately states, but were the best pretexts for imposing harsh austerity measures and redistributing wealth at the expense of the poor and the middle classes. the greeks, my dear colleagues, the portuguese, the irish, the cypriots, unfortunately know very well that human lives were sacrificed to save the financial sector, the banks and their profits. young people in all the countries of europe know that as a result of these policies they do not have the right to work, they do not have the right to dream, they remain in the lobby of life. the only people who will decide whether these policies were necessary are the people of europe. in their vote in may, they will denounce the forces which today, through the report, legitimize the troika and justify the policies, they will denounce those forces which have incorporated the memorandum and troika policies into european legislation and they will vote for their right to education, health, work, for a europe of solidarity and democracy.
madam president, i would first like to thank all three rapporteurs for this extremely important report, extremely important for the european parliament, extremely important for the citizens of europe and particularly the citizens of the four countries which have implemented or are implementing an adjustment programme. the citizens of these countries, who have borne and are borne a huge burden, who have paid and are paying a disproportionately heavy price, without having any responsibility for this crisis, no longer trust the european union. they do not trust it, not because they ignore or ignore national responsibilities in the years leading up to the crisis but in the management of the crisis itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. the citizens, therefore, recognize national responsibilities, but mr vice-president, this does not absolve european responsibilities for the bigotry, the sometimes violation of the community acquis, the obsession with forward-looking, forward-looking fiscal adjustment, in countries which had mainly structural problems, such as greece. i would like to conclude by saying that we are two months away from the european elections and the latest eurobarometer asks a very interesting question to european citizens: are they satisfied with the way democracy works in the european union? the european average is below 50%, while in countries with an adjustment programme the figure is below 30%. let us not give this world to the forces of populism.
yes, mr langen, we have made that clear already. colleagues, mr langen has raised a point of order making it clear that the blue-card procedure is there to enable members to put questions. this is something that i myself have already pointed out.
the ppe group has tabled a number of amendments. madam president, commissioner, the whole troika affair is an expression of the weaknesses of the european union, and in particular of the eurozone, in terms of the lack of institutions, mechanisms, budgetary discipline, budgetary balance and economic cohesion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report rightly calls for the democratic legitimization of the troika system through the european institutions. it is important to note, however, that the programmes need to be adjusted according to their impact on the recession and the need to correctly estimate the budgetary multipliers and social stabilizers. i am glad that an amendment is being tabled which recognises the success of the fiscal adjustment in greece. indeed, my country is running a primary surplus and a current account surplus for 2013 and, according to the european commission's recent estimates, greece is also showing the first signs of recovery with a positive outlook for 2014 and 2015. it is time to recognize this as a brave achievement of the greek people and to take this as the starting point for support measures in greece, with debt relief as the main one. the report does, however, still contain another inaccuracy which needs to be corrected. i am referring to the paragraph where there is a reference to 'statistical fraud' in the years before the programme. i propose to replace it with 'statistical irregularities', because that is what it really is about, according to the european commission's special report in 2010, it is about flawed statistical standards and mechanisms applied in greece and not about 'misconduct'. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
the question is "blue card". i'd like to discuss, to get a real picture of what happened in the country, how much the budget was voted each time in the house and how much the deficit was at the end of the year. can you give us an answer to that?
answer "blue card". mr scylakaakis, nobody doubted that greece's finances were not in a good state and that is why we have these deficits. but now we are talking about the role of the troika and we must recognize what we have achieved, with what problems, with what difficulties and what still needs to be done.
madam president, commissioners, our house has been burning for six years. it is true that the crisis did not start with the budgetary adjustment programmes but the fires started because of mistakes made by the member states. changes and reforms had to be made in the various countries and in the eurozone to put out this fire. the question is: has the troika and its policies put out the fire or has it spread to our neighborhood? some numbers: 1.5 million unemployed in greece, 2.5 million uninsured, more poor than ever, 60 billion in the deficit of the insurance funds, 100,000 small and medium-sized enterprises have closed, 300,000 young people have emigrated to other countries in the last three years. the commission has an obligation to pursue policies that are compatible with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the europe 2020 strategy, the european social acquis, the charter of fundamental rights, the environmental acquis. so let's create institutions and policies that are in tune with all of that. some examples: link the next batch to strengthening democratic and social dialogue and not to unleashing mass layoffs. ask switzerland to provide data on greek deposits of 60 to 220 billion, so that 6 to 45 billion will be deposited in public coffers.
madam president, i will only speak about greece, where the troika has fallen dramatically short of its forecasts for recession, unemployment, exports and privatisations. why did it fail? because while in greece the problem was a huge client state, which led the country to bankruptcy, the troika tolerated a policy of overtaxing the private sector and protecting the client state. even today, while 5% of greek gdp is given to pensions for citizens under 65, the retirement of the privileged continues at 50 and 55. while overtaxation is driving 15% of households into individual bankruptcy, the government is gearing up for election-related appointments and benefits. instead of a policy of less taxes, a smaller state, structural reforms and private sector-based development, the troika allowed tens of billions of taxpayers' money to be used to maintain a miniature version of the greek client state, from which the ruling parties draw their strength. that's why it failed.
madam president, we have before us three reports with scientific logic but also political thinking. i fully agree with their content and their suggestions. the conclusion is that just as the aryan race experiment failed, so too has the aryan economy experiment, which the troika tried to implement. the troika did not create the crisis. he handled the crisis the worst way. and what do we get in return for this crisis management? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not a party to the treaty. i'd like to say this: i am grateful to the two rapporteurs. and i thank them because i was thinking, "what the hell? we are not applying the american experiment of printing money in europe? i'm not sure. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. secondly, i have a complaint about the troika. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament.
madam president, the crisis has undoubtedly exposed and widened the macroeconomic imbalances of some member states. greece was the first european country to join the blended support mechanism, making heavy commitments. four years later, the social, developmental and humanitarian costs of the economic adjustment programmes are incalculable. the simultaneous implementation of extreme austerity policies and internal devaluation, a formula that ignored national particularities, fundamental european principles and values and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, and of course with wrong fiscal multipliers and wrong estimates, but also measures that often refer more to punishment, have led to the collapse of the living standards of greek citizens by about 50%, a reduction unprecedented for a european post-war state, to a degree and prolonged recession, exceeding 25% in total, to a generalization of unemployment, approaching 28%, and long-term unemployment, with a 10% rise in the unemployment rate, with the transformation of the state of small business into a humanitarian crisis, when the need for humanitarian aid and solidarity is reduced, and to the transformation of the state of small businesses into a humanitarian crisis. the response to the crisis could and should have been a purely european one, a europe of solidarity and reciprocity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community, such as the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, and the introduction of a new system of taxation. through institutional structures, mechanisms, evaluations and transparent procedures, in cooperation with national parliaments - and not by blackmail - and after consulting the social partners - which was not done - to ensure that: respect for the european social model and acquis without exceptions and asterisks, democratic legitimacy and accountability, social consensus and understanding, critical issues that are missing so far from the 'methodology' followed by the troika.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and this is thanks to the sacrifices of the greek men and women. in 2009, the primary deficit was 11% of gdp. in 2013, earlier than expected, we achieved a primary surplus. but to do that, the greek people saw their national income decrease by 25%. he saw unemployment more than double in the general population. he saw youth unemployment hit record negative rates, 60%. the measures were imposed by the troika on greece and the other member states without any prior study of the consequences for the lives of everyday people. the troika never asked the international labour organisation, the european economic and social committee, the commissioner for social affairs, mr andor, who is now sitting there to give us answers, and mr rehn is responsible for everything that is happening. the troika never asked the employment and social policy council for an opinion. this can't go on any longer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the disease, and the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the disease, and the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the disease.
madam president, the reports of the 'holy alliance' - the people's party, the social democrats and the liberals - are trying to exonerate the monopolies, the european union, the governments, the national parliaments and the bourgeoisie in the member states of the anti-people attack against the workers, two months before the european elections. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. the civil servants know very well that there is no longer any need for troika and memoranda, since they have been incorporated into european union legislation, initiated by the european parliament, to ensure the profitability of monopolies. that's why the workers must punish the parties of capital, of the euro-road, of the euro-submission; to strengthen the anti-monopoly, anti-capitalist struggle, to break the chains of the monopolies and the european union, for the unilateral cancellation of the debt with the working people in power.
mr president, we are at the end of our term of office and i would therefore like to thank all my colleagues for the cooperation we have had over the years in the field of immigration, and in particular in our committee on libe. we have achieved a great deal during this term in the area of legislative work. i think that the completion of the asylum package was a very important event, one that will also be recorded in history, and of course commissioner malmström, whom i would like to thank, also made a decisive contribution to all this. we have not always agreed on everything, commissioner, but i must say that you have made an excellent effort and have done the best you could. we are discussing today and will be approving a very important financial instrument to enable us to implement exactly all the asylum policies we voted for in the past. the merger of more funds into two ultimately creates better opportunities, both at national and european level. we are creating more flexibility and, of course, a good balance between the need to strengthen national action and the overall need to strengthen the european effort. it is a given that the eur 3.1 billion for the migration and asylum fund is not enough and we all agree on that. we believe, however, that this is a starting point for us to be able to use these resources quickly and, as mentioned earlier, to be able, perhaps, to enrich this fund with more resources soon. in the coming period, emergency situations will be better dealt with and i believe that all this, together with other provisions included, creates a good framework for achieving what we are all so keenly seeking, namely a comprehensive migration policy with immediately applicable tools. the greek presidency has made this a priority. we must recognize that this is a very positive development and, as far as i know, the italian presidency will continue this effort. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. we are not seeing these yet, but we are seeing crises in various countries, with shipwrecks, with loss of life. i would like to believe that what we are discussing today will be a very important tool for the future, so that no more lives are lost, that the rights of all are fully protected and, of course, that we have an integrated migration policy for the benefit of european citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held on thursday 13 march 2014. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. the eu budget is an investment and solidarity budget, and its priorities for 2015 should be economic recovery and growth, reducing regional disparities, competitiveness, supporting smes and fighting youth unemployment. the year 2015 is a year in which two major challenges will have to be addressed. the first concerns the continuation of frontloading and in this respect the european commission is invited to identify further programmes which could benefit from such a distribution. the second concerns the level of payments. it is vital to have an adequate level of payments as payment shortfalls have been increasing steadily since 2010. according to the most recent estimates, outstanding accounts since 2013 in cohesion policy funds alone amounted to eur 23,4 billion, while in the financing of humanitarian aid there are already shortfalls, effectively making the community budget deficit. the cor insists that all the flexibility available in the mff regulation be used, including the use of the emergency margin and/or the revision of the payment ceiling, in order to respect eu legal obligations and not to jeopardise payments to beneficiaries.
the next item on the agenda is a brief presentation of the report by nirj deva on the role of property and wealth creation in eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable development [2013/2026 (ini) ] (a7-0118/2014).
the debate is closed. the vote will be held on thursday 13 march 2014.
the next item is the briefing by mr charles goerens on the report on policy coherence for development (a7-0161/2014)
the debate is closed. the vote will be held on thursday 13 march 2014. (the sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon) )
in writing. the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the role of the troika was 'legislative'. the report legitimizes the role and functioning of the troika and is incompatible with the tragic reality in greece. the troika model and the imf involvement are presented as a one-way street. the lack of democratic accountability and institutional legitimacy is justified by the report's tight timeframe and the urgency of the situation. the harsh austerity measures imposed on the countries under the memorandum, which have led to a humanitarian crisis, are also justified as necessary. the report also argues that if these programmes had not been implemented, the consequences would have been worse. in the same context, the cercas report, which makes some references to social problems, essentially treats the increase in unemployment, poverty and insecurity as phenomena and not as direct disastrous consequences of the neoliberal policies implemented in these countries. finally, neither report calls for the countries to be immediately disengaged from the memoranda and the troika. the commission's proposal is to be implemented by the member states, and the commission's proposal is to be implemented by the member states. i have voted against both reports for all the above reasons.
in writing. it is well known that i praised this report during yesterday's debate for its scientific and realistic approach. but after the vote on paragraph 5, which uses the terms 'insolvency', 'non-viability' of greece's economy and 'statistical tampering' (despite the full control of the data by the commission - in the era of mr almunia), i think that the original character of the report is being altered and an attempt is being made to exonerate the troika for its violent attack on the income of greek citizens and the disintegration of the middle class. it is incorrect to ignore that the eu's governance model over the last decade was partly responsible for the greek crisis. i therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their methodical work and for their very good reports. i would like to mention in particular the area of cohesion policy, where the error rate increased by 0.8% compared to 2011. although this percentage essentially shows that there were no significant differences in 2012 compared to last year, it is not sufficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the provisions of the new cohesion policy programming period which we are now in are moving in this direction, with the further simplification, transparency, accountability and ex ante and ex post controls which we all hope will help to improve the protection of the eu's financial interests. finally, as regards the joint undertakings, i would like to stress that although progress has been made in their governance and budget implementation, there is room for further improvement. further steps should be taken in particular to ensure more disciplined budgetary management, data and related efforts at both national and european level.
mr president, i would like to denounce the increasing authoritarianism of the greek government, new democracy and pasok, which yesterday once again banned demonstrations in central athens for the ecofin meeting, which decided on new harsh measures to reduce the price of labour in the european union and billions of subsidies for the big capital from the reserves of the social security funds. we salute the thousands of pame protesters who have responded militantly to government authoritarianism, thwarting the efforts of the police forces to beat the demonstration with staged incidents. for the anti-people attack of the european union and the co-government against the workers, authoritarianism and state repression are sides of the same coin. the european union and the greek government are being laughed at if they think that by repressing and attacking the people's freedoms they will stop the struggle for disengagement from the european union, for unilateral debt cancellation and for popular power.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, we note that relations between iran and the european union are improving. this is a positive development for both sides. this report is important and helps to that end. the aim of mrs muñiz de urquiza's report is to draw up a road map for the future relations between iran and the european union. given this, harsh vocabulary in the formulation of content should be avoided. the recent developments in iran, both domestically and in foreign policy, the opening up to the west, the normalisation of iran's relations with many european countries, not just with individual states but with the european union as a whole - the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there we go! the new president of iran, mr rouhani, appears to be moderate, which gives us hope for further improvement in relations with the european union and for normalization of relations with iran's neighbouring countries. the continuation of the dialogue on human rights issues remains a major priority and efforts in this regard must be continued. it is a positive fact that there was a dialogue on this during mrs ashton's visit. iran has enormous natural gas and oil wealth and the european union is an important trading partner. this, coupled with iran's crucial geostrategic role in the middle east and central asia region, explains the european union's desire to develop further its relations with tehran. we hope that the important reforms will continue.
the next item on the agenda is voting time.
we all know what paragraph 47 says. it is true that the paragraph has been declared inadmissible by the president, in accordance with rule 20 of the rules of procedure, because it is contrary to the legal obligations binding the institution with regard to the rules of confidentiality and the decisions taken by the competent organ of parliament. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. the president shall declare the opening, adjournment and closure of meetings. it shall decide on the admissibility of amendments, questions to the council and the commission and the conformity of reports with the regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr. staes, we are not going to open a debate. we shall not go into the substance of the references in paragraph 47. we're not having this conversation. the debate we are having ... (there are disapproval voices from members and the president calls them back to order) ... is about one point only. the president has the right, as has been done on many occasions in the past, to judge and evaluate the admissibility of amendments and reports as a whole. the matter is closed. we will not discuss it. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - before the vote on paragraph 61:
mr. mcmillan-scott, thank you very much for your comment, we'll record it.
we will conclude the vote on the report, and when we have to make a final decision i will ask one speaker in favour of what you suggested and another against, and we will decide. ήθελα να σας ρωτήσω ποιος θα μιλήσει υπέρ της πρότασης για αναβολή της τελικής ψηφοφορίας επί της έκθεσης του κυρίου ivan.
i would remind you once again that we are considering compatibility with parliament's rules of procedure. who supports the motion to postpone the final vote ? (the sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.) - after the vote:
i would like to inform you, in order to avoid any unacceptable and offensive comments being made in the chamber, that the president of parliament is meeting with the secretary-general of the united nations, mr ban ki-moon, who is in brussels.
thank you very much, mr audy, we take note of your remarks.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the effectiveness of the european social fund's expenditure on older workers. firstly, it is worrying that the definition of 'older workers' is not consistently used in the operational programmes for the period 2007-13. the weaknesses in the implementation of the european social fund are also a cause for concern, particularly as regards the lack of data from the member states to assess whether the resources have been used correctly and whether the actions have been effective in meeting the needs of older workers. in the current 2014-2020 programming period, it is therefore imperative, firstly, to establish specific indicators to make the link between the actions undertaken and the objectives set clear, secondly, to implement a better monitoring system to correct the programmes in case of non-fulfilment of the objectives set and, thirdly, to establish an effective data collection system for older workers.
in writing. we oppose the report on the european year of development (2015) because, under the pretext of fighting poverty and unemployment, it provides hot money from eu (€15 million) and state resources (0.7% of gdp) to boost entrepreneurship, i.e. the profitability of monopolies. business activity in critical sectors such as the regions, municipalities, schools and ngos is being used to generalise flexible forms of employment, intensify the exploitation of workers and manipulate the labour movement by capital. a realistic way out for the working people is to strengthen the anti-monopoly anti-capitalist popular struggle for the liberation from the eu and the unilateral cancellation of the debt with workers' and people's power, the only condition for the satisfaction of the modern popular needs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge report to the european commission and the executive agencies for the financial year 2012. all operational expenditure areas were found to be materially flawed in 2012. this means that we must make greater efforts in all policy areas to be able to achieve our objective, which cannot be anything other than zero error. there should be a better quality of expenditure and this can be achieved by the implementation of more effective management and control systems, both by the member states and by the european commission. this is also the direction taken by the 2014-2020 programming period regulations, which are already under way, in policy areas such as cohesion policy, for which we all hope that further simplification, transparency, accountability and ex-ante and ex-post controls will help to improve the protection of the eu's financial interests.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the granting of a discharge for the 2012 financial year to the artemis joint undertaking, the main objective of which is to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in various fields of application, in order to enhance european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and applications in society. i would like to express my concern that, for the second year in a row, the european court of auditors has issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions on which the annual accounts are based. the joint undertaking was not able to assess whether the ex post control strategy provides sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. therefore, in cooperation with the european court of auditors, artemis should without delay improve the quality of its ex ante and ex post controls in order to improve this situation in the coming years. the european parliament will await with interest the outcome of these processes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the 2012 financial year to the clean sky joint undertaking, the purpose of which is to accelerate the development, validation and promotion of clean technologies in the field of air transport in the european union, with a view to their exploitation as soon as possible. i would like to welcome the progress made by this joint undertaking, as for 2012, the european court of auditors delivered an unqualified opinion on its annual accounts as regards the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, whereas for 2011 the same institution had expressed reservations. this progress is significant and should be continued, as there is room for further improvement in areas such as budget implementation, strengthening of internal control systems and, in particular, the validation of the control certificates accompanying beneficiaries' declarations of expenditure.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the financial year 2012 of the eniac joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiatives for nanoelectronics, the main objective of which is to define and implement a research agenda for the development of key capabilities in the field of nanoelectronics in various fields of application. i would like to express my concern that, for the second year in a row, the european court of auditors has issued a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions on which the annual accounts are based. the court was not able to assess whether the ex post control strategy, which relies heavily on the national funding authorities to verify the declarations of expenditure for projects, provides sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts. however, the joint undertaking has adopted an ex post audit strategy for 2012, the implementation of which has already started. it is therefore necessary for eniac to report to parliament on the results of the above strategy, accompanied by an evaluation by the european court of auditors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the granting of a discharge for the 2012 financial year to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking aimed at supporting, in a coordinated manner, research and technological development activities with a view to focusing on the development of commercial applications to facilitate further industry efforts to rapidly deploy fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. i would like to express my satisfaction that the joint undertaking is not facing any major problems in its budgetary and financial management. however, there is scope for further improvements in cash management and internal control systems. finally, i would like to express my support for the improvements proposed by the european court of auditors to the monitoring and reporting system covering the protection, dissemination and transfer of the results of the research carried out by the agency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the discharge to be given to the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines (imi joint undertaking) for the financial year 2012. the joint undertaking aims to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process, with the long-term aim of enabling the pharmaceutical industry to produce more effective and safer innovative medicines. it is of concern that for 2012, the ex post audit error rate was 5,82%, and that the european court of auditors delivered a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the second consecutive year. however, it should be recognised that most of the abovementioned errors were in relatively small amounts (below eur 5[nbsp ]000) which will be adjusted in favour of the joint undertaking. in addition, measures have since been taken to recover or offset these amounts from subsequent requests for reimbursement of expenditure, and the rate will continue to evolve on a multiannual basis as more projects, beneficiaries and requests are audited.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the granting of a discharge for the financial year 2012 to the iter joint undertaking, the main tasks of which are: (i) to provide the euratom contribution to the international energy agency for iter fusion (ii) providing the contribution of euratom to the 'broader vision activities' (supplementary joint fusion research activities) with japan for the rapid realisation of fusion energy and (iii) developing and coordinating a programme of activities to prepare for the construction of a fusion reactor and associated facilities, including the international fusion irradiation facility. there is scope for further improvement in financial management, in particular in terms of high cash balances, internal control systems and procedures for awarding operating contracts and grants. the joint undertaking shall provide the commission with the necessary information to enable it to assess the impact of the union contribution on the union's energy performance. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the programme to include the development of new technologies, and called for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the programme is implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the programme.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the financial year 2012 of the sesar joint undertaking responsible for the activities of the single european sky air traffic management research programme, which aims to modernise air traffic management in europe. the success of the joint undertaking in implementing the sesar programme is crucial to the development of a modern air traffic management system and the single european sky depends on the success of the joint undertaking. i would like to express my satisfaction that the joint undertaking is not facing any major problems, although there is room for further improvement in terms of financial management and internal control systems. finally, as regards the payment of the members' contributions, the european parliament wishes to be informed in full transparency as to whether the deadline for the payment of cash contributions to the joint undertaking by its members was respected in 2012.
mr vice-president of the commission, the new rules we are voting on may not be as ambitious as the commission's proposals, and that is a pity. but they will reduce transportation's dependence on oil. they will be the catalyst for the development of the infrastructure required for electric mobility and natural gas. the european union countries should ensure that there are enough refuelling and recharging stations to allow the circulation of passenger cars, lorries and ships using alternative fuels. it is therefore very important that the national plans to be drawn up should ensure the unimpeded movement of clean vehicles in cities, at least by 2020, and access to liquefied natural gas for ships operating on the trans-european networks at least by 2025.
in writing. this is an important proposal in the field of road transport aimed at revising the directive on maximum weights and dimensions of road vehicles. the purpose of the text we are adopting is to allow more aerodynamic vehicles with better energy efficiency to be introduced on the market, thus contributing to fuel savings and reducing emissions. at the same time, it aims to improve road safety, with significant benefits for vulnerable road users such as pedestrians and cyclists. in addition, the extension of the vehicles will facilitate the reloading of modern wheeled containers, either through fleet renewal or by necessary conversions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and i would like to ask the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner.
in writing. we all recognise that the outcome of the mfa negotiations was disappointing and fell short of the eu's ambitions and political priorities. the council's position during the negotiations was also at least problematic and, in order to avoid the negotiations on the current mff being seen as precedent, it should be ensured that the european council's conclusions do not constitute a red line which cannot be negotiated with parliament. as regards the next steps, it is important to ensure during the current period the full implementation of the various flexibility mechanisms successfully negotiated by parliament and included in the mff regulation; it is also important to ensure that the approval of the new president of the commission is conditional on a strong political commitment to implement the mandatory post-implementation review of the mff. in addition, the report of the high level group on own resources provides a unique opportunity to overcome the impasse that has arisen in the financing of the union budget. finally, in the long term, the question of the duration of the mff should be considered in order to better coordinate it with the mandate of the european parliament and the commission.
madam president, six years ago we saw the collapse of the financial system, the casino that created surpluses for the many and the powerful. a system that has received guarantees and other gifts from the european union states - some 4 trillion euros - at a time when the unemployed in europe are 26 million. we have seen the protectors of this system, the mafia of speculators, the rating agencies, hammer greece into a debt crisis and into the memoranda, and then attack ireland, portugal, spain, italy and finally cyprus. we have seen, ladies and gentlemen, four years ago how the european union, mrs merkel, mr sarkozy, mr barroso, sacrificed greece to save the european banks, as mr olli rehn admitted to us with great cynicism. the banking union envisaged by the council, the commission, the european central bank and, unfortunately, the majority of parliament today, is a show of mercy to the banking system, which bears a huge responsibility for the economic situation in europe today. instead of creating opportunities for recovery and growth for european societies, the planned banking union is strengthening the zombie banks, strengthening a financial system which will continue to generate 'bubbles', imbalances and crises.
it is very important, madam president, and symbolically very significant, that in this last plenary session we are ratifying the agreement on the second pillar of banking union, the single bank resolution mechanism and the single resolution fund, which, together with the single supervisory mechanism, lay the foundations for the removal of the fragmentation and dangerous imbalances in europe's banking system. sound banks with uniform and transparent rules on supervision, operation and resolution, when and if needed, not only protect taxpayers from burdens beyond their reach, but also represent a decisive step towards restoring liquidity and financing to the real economy. all of this is very important and i am pleased that the greek presidency has made a major contribution to reaching an agreement, and i am particularly pleased, mr president-in-office, that you have rightly pointed out that the banking union also has a third pillar which must not be abandoned: the launch of the single european deposit guarantee scheme with a single fund modelled on the single clearing fund. i hope, commissioner barnier - and i thank you for your excellent work in general and in particular on banking union - that the next european commission will commit itself to moving forward and implementing this third pillar which is absolutely essential for banking union.
madam president, it is good that there is a minimum level of guarantees for small and medium-sized depositors at european union level and that the provision for uncertain claims by banks is increased. i consider the effort a success, although i fear that the effects of the economic crisis are again being passed on to the taxpayers, that is to say, to the depositors, and not to the shareholders, and especially not to the supervisory bodies which have responsibilities. for five years now, we have pretended to ignore the fact that the crisis is also a monetary one. the european central bank needs to take additional monetary easing measures to address the low inflation and the strong euro which are holding back the growth of the economy and the competitiveness of the majority of member states. i think we must restore the euro to the dollar, which was overturned after the issuance of the six trillion dollars by the united states of america. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues, and especially commissioner barnier, for the efforts he has made in his portfolio and for the cooperation we have had so far.
mr president, in this debate, one might ask what we prefer: product safety or market control? i think both should go together. and the consumer to feel safe through product safety, and the small businessman to be able to run his business. question: can we do both? i think we can. i say this because i am relying on the very good work done by the commission and the excellent work done by the rapporteurs and in particular by mrs schaldemose. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now we come to the final stage and here is a thorn that is the made in, the origin. they want consumers to know what products they are putting in their homes. consumers want, and i think they're right, to know how safe the products they're putting in their homes are, because they have children, because they have elderly people, because they may have disabled people. we must respect it and work towards it.
in writing. the vote in the european parliament today on the banking union by the parties of capital and the euro-trend is a compromise in the eurozone and the eu that will accelerate the concentration and centralisation of capital in the financial system with painful consequences for the working class and the popular strata. the banking union in the eu serves the objectives of ensuring the profitability of monopoly groups and shielding their competitiveness by strengthening the banking system of the eu member states, creating stronger and more stable banks, concentrating and centralising capital and at the same time shifting the burdens of the crisis and the depreciation of capital onto the backs of the people, either as retail depositors or as taxpayers. the call for more favourable treatment of the lower classes as depositors or as borrowers is false and misleading. banks in capitalism invest their capital in order to make a profit, not to satisfy the needs of the people. the banking union is added to the anti-people framework of 'enhanced economic governance', of the eu's permanent memoranda for all its member states against the peoples and the strengthening of the monopoly giants. it is another link in the chains of anti-people measures and commitments imposed by the eu and urban governments on workers to strengthen the monopoly behemoths.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because, taking today's challenges as a starting point, it seeks to help identify the factors that impede universal access to services of general interest and to examine how the needs of consumers can be adequately met. in addition to the basic principles of accessibility, economy and continuity of supply, the report also seeks to act as a catalyst for the development of sectoral action plans and, in addition, to suggest ways of designing universal access in accordance with fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 515/97 of 13 march 1997 on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the latter and the commission is designed to ensure the correct application of the customs and agricultural regulations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as i welcome the commission's proposal to set up the shift2rail joint undertaking as an important part of the innovative investment package under the horizon 2020 programme. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain to support 185 redundancies in the santana group and its suppliers and downstream users in the automotive sector. the continuing economic crisis in spain further highlights the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as a tool of the european union's social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. the spanish regions are subject to a process of rationalization and drastic cuts. the strengthening of the european globalisation adjustment fund will be able to contribute to the fight against unemployment without significantly burdening the efforts of fiscal consolidation of spain's national and regional budgets.
in writing. the 'securities investment enterprises' directive and the related european parliament report (a7-0125/2013) have as their main objective to further facilitate the free movement of capital in the eu single capital market. the whole eu legislative package voted by the european parliament at its last plenary session before the european elections is aimed at strengthening the stock market, in particular the market for derivatives and "products" on the stock market, the most aggressive speculative part of capital. the european institutions and the political staff of capital seek to concentrate the monopoly financial groups operating in the sector, to ensure their profitability and to strengthen their position in the inter-imperialist competitions that are raging. the exploitation of the working class and the popular strata will intensify to increase corporate profits. the bourgeois and opportunist arguments about alleged market regulation and the restriction of speculation are an attempt to manipulate and disorient the people. they hide the fact that the capitalist crisis is the result of capitalist development, the over-accumulation of capital that cannot find a profitable outlet. they point to some highly paid business executives and some "irresponsible speculators" as the ones allegedly responsible in order to exonerate the capitalist system that generates crises with its insurmountable contradictions and contradictions. that is why it is not regulated, nor humanized - it is only reversed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i fully agree with its aim, which is to improve information for micro-investors on the overall cost of investment and to increase risk awareness.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because ecall will be based on the installation of type-approved equipment for the single european emergency call number 112, starting with certain vehicle categories, in all vehicles and will also create a framework for handling ecall calls from telecommunications networks and psaps. this approach ensures that ecall is made available as an eu-wide service to all citizens in europe, accelerates uptake and unlocks the full potential of ecall in order to limit loss of life and to respond quickly to serious injuries. the manufacturer shall ensure that the 112-based ecall in-vehicle system is designed and manufactured in such a way that it can be easily and quickly connected to the network.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that high quality digital infrastructure is the foundation of virtually all areas of the modern and innovative economy and society, and because high quality broadband infrastructure is a prerequisite for global competitiveness and a pillar of europe's digital single market. i therefore support the objective of this regulation to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed and ultra-high-speed electronic communications networks by providing tools for more cost-effective deployment of new physical infrastructure, reduced administrative burdens, sharing of existing infrastructure and harmonised technical works.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because metrology, the science of measurement, is an important part of the high-tech world in which we live. the primary objective of the eipmec is to provide metrology solutions to support innovation and industrial competitiveness, and measurement technologies to address societal challenges in areas such as health, environment and energy, including support for policy design and implementation. the commission will continue to support the development of the european metrology research system, with a critical mass and active engagement at regional, national, european and international level.
the next item is the report by mrs marie-christine vergiat, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state (recast) (com (2013) 0311 - c7-0147/2013 - 2013/0162 (cod)) (a7-0058/2014)
i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to allow me to give the floor to our colleague, mrs marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid, because it was my fault that she was not able to speak earlier.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 april 2014 at 12.00 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by margrete auken, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags (com ((2013) 0761 c7-0392/2013 2013/0371 cod)) (a7-0174/2014)
in writing. the statements by evangelos venizelos on behalf of the council of the eu and the positions of the political representatives of the monopolies in the european parliament, in the debate on the 100th anniversary of the end of the first world war, made it clear that the eu's imperialist aggression against the peoples will intensify in the coming period. with vulgar and unhistorical arguments they tried to hide the real causes of the outbreak of the first imperialist world war, as well as the dozens of local and regional wars and interventions. war in the age of imperialism is not an "unfortunate" event, but an organic product of the capitalist system, an inevitable manifestation of the inter-imperialist contradictions. the first imperialist world war showed that the working class has no interest in becoming a cannon fodder for the warring bourgeoisie. today's reality triumphantly demolishes both the lie cultivated by bourgeois and opportunist parties that the european union is a 'stability factor' and the illusions sown by syriza that with a different balance of power the eu can be transformed into a 'force for peace'. the eu is the enemy of the people. the eu-nato-us imperialist intervention in ukraine is in full swing and increasing the risks to the peoples of the wider region.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted the framework governing the selection process and the course of the european capitals of culture from 2020 to 2033. the present initiative, which i voted in favour of, is the product of months of negotiations between the european parliament and the european council. the first european capital of culture was athens in 1985, and the main event of the institution, which provides for significant financial support for cities, is the "melina mercouri" prize. the new action plan highlights the role of local communities, citizen participation and the international role further enhanced by the diaspora. more flexible funding will now be provided, in line with the conditions, to facilitate each city's preparation without compromising on transparency, monitoring and evaluation. under the new framework, one of the cultural capitals of 2021 will be a greek city, which is very important, considering that the development opportunities opened up in cities and surrounding areas are boosting the local economy for much longer than a year and that the cultural capitals are ensuring a visibility that significantly enhances their tourism product and modernise their cultural infrastructure, among many other benefits.
in writing. the kke voted against the report and the commission's proposal for a directive because it is another anti-working class piece of equipment added to the barrage of anti-people measures unleashed by the eu institutions and the bourgeois governments against the working people. the new directive undermines and effectively nullifies even this minimal protection of the most basic wage and employment rights of those workers employed in another eu member state than the one in which the company is established. it also removes any minimal restrictions on the tendency of companies to choose as their home member states those with crumbling wages and labour rights and then apply those miserable working and wage conditions to workers employed in all the other eu member states. the workers become prey to the capitalists, who, using slave-trading offices and various "subcontractors", relieve them of any obligation, even that of paying their hard-earned wages, and leave the unpaid workers to chase after "ghost" companies. all this means the salary action of bulgaria, romania, poland, estonia, latvia or rather china and india, as provided for in the "euro pact", the abolition of the sces, the striking of the right to strike everywhere, in all eu member states, to save and increase the profits of the monopoly groups.
in writing. we consider the problem of returning all kinds of cultural goods, which are the expression of the artistic creation of each place and reflect the historical path and cultural character of each people, to be of the highest priority. in this sense, cultural goods belong to the people who created them and are an integral part of the natural environment in which they were created. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. in particular, the directive refers only to 'illegally exported' cultural goods and only to those seized after 1993. in order to provide a substantive solution to the problem, the following principles should be established: the purchase, sale and possession by a private individual or by any private or public body of a member state of any cultural object originating in another state (eu or non-eu) is considered illegal and prohibited. these cultural goods are returned to the country of origin automatically and without any special procedure or claim for compensation. the commission's proposal, which is a step backwards from the 1993 milestone, tackles the problem of the immense archaeological treasures which were taken from our country during the german occupation and which must finally be returned.
in writing. - the legislative initiative in question, which i supported, is a technical and very important text for the safeguarding of cultural property, both in practice and in terms of concepts. this is a legislative framework which recognises the dual concept of cultural heritage, both as a good and as a product. at the same time, it sets the conditions for strengthening control without damaging the national cultural heritage of the eu member states, which is also a cultural asset of the union itself. this initiative strengthens legal barriers but imposes additional conditions against international organised crime in cases of theft and trafficking of cultural works and goods. this text refers to the 1993 council and european parliament directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state, which sought to ensure the protection of cultural objects and in particular national treasures after the abolition of controls at the internal borders of the eu on 1 january 1993. it cannot therefore cover cases such as the return of the parthenon marbles but it can at least help to strengthen the dialogue in this direction, as indeed in any similar case of other eu member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs vergiat's report because it aims to simplify the procedures for the recovery of works of art or other objects considered to be 'national treasures' which have been illegally removed from the territory of a member state since 1993. it is noted that several eu countries have suffered serious theft and illegal export of cultural goods since the creation of the single market.
in writing. - the mediterranean has played a significant role in international and regional geopolitical and economic developments throughout history, as determined by conflicts and events that continue to make the region unstable. hundreds of thousands of people try to enter the eu each year from its southern sea borders, namely the sea area of greece, italy, spain, malta and cyprus. these states, hit hard by the economic crisis of recent years, were suddenly faced with the problem of a large number of displaced persons seeking refuge in safer territories. this proposal, which i supported, sets the conditions for increased effectiveness of migration policy and border management and surveillance between member states and third countries, and for improved cooperation between eu bodies such as frontex in the context of the maritime operations it coordinates. finally, this initiative once again highlights the need for an integrated european migration policy, based on solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities between member states, in accordance with international law and human rights provisions.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - i know . madam president, i am very pleased that in my last speech you happen to be on the bureau. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that the revised regulation is moving in the right direction as it simplifies the current rules for mobilising the fund and provides more clarity on eligibility, particularly as regards 'regional' disasters. the possibility of paying advances is considered to be particularly important as it will help to deal with the consequences of disasters in a timely manner. in addition, member states are encouraged to take measures to develop risk management and to develop disaster prevention strategies, which is a particularly positive development as we all know that prevention is less costly than response. i hope, madam president, that these improvements will help the solidarity fund to respond better and more effectively to major disasters. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday 16 april 2014, at 18.00.
the next item is the debate on:- question with a request for an oral reply to the council on the worrying lack of payment appropriations for the financing of eu external aid by alain lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on budgets (o-000050/2014 - b7-0114/2014) (2014/2697(rsp)) - question with a request for an oral reply to the commission on the worrying lack of payment appropriations for the financing of eu external aid by alain lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on budgets (o-000051/2014 - b7-0115/2014) (2014/2697 ((rsp)) - question with a request for an oral reply to the council on the worrying lack of payment appropriations for the financing of eu external aid by alain lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on budgets (o-000050/2014 - b7-0114/2014) - question with a request for an oral reply to the commission on the worrying lack of payment appropriations for the financing of eu external aid by eva joly lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on budgets (o-000050/2014 - b7-0114/2014 - b7-02657/2014), on the commission's request for a request for a preliminary answer to the council on the worrying lack of payment appropriations for the financing of eu external aid by alain lamassoure lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on development (o-
thank you very much, michael cashman, and thank you for being with us during these years.
dear colleagues, allow me to say a few words in greek since it will probably take some time until someone else chairs this house in the greek language. επειδή αυτή είναι η τελευταία φορά που προεδρεύω, όπως ήταν και για τον συνάδελφο martínez martínez, και επειδή είναι ιδιαίτερη, διπλή, η χαρά μου που αυτό γίνεται στο πλαίσιο της ελληνικής προεδρίας στην ευρωπαϊκή ένωση, θα ήθελα να σας ευχαριστήσω όλους και όλες θερμότατα για την εξαιρετική συνεργασία. είμαι υπερήφανη, όπως είμαστε, νομίζω, όλες μας και όλοι μας υπερήφανοι, διότι υπηρετήσαμε στο ευρωπαϊκό κοινοβούλιο σε αυτή την πολύ δύσκολη κοινοβουλευτική θητεία. θα ήθελα επίσης, ως ελληνίδα, να σας ευχαριστήσω θερμά για την πολύ ουσιαστική υποστήριξη και αλληλεγγύη που επέδειξε το ευρωπαϊκό κοινοβούλιο στην ελλάδα και σε άλλες χώρες που αντιμετώπισαν ιδιαίτερες δυσκολίες αυτή την περίοδο. όπως είπε και ο συνάδελφος αντιπρόεδρος martínez martínez που προήδρευσε πριν από εμένα, κατεβαίνουμε από το τραίνο του ευρωπαϊκού κοινοβουλίου αλλά σε καμία περίπτωση δεν κατεβαίνουμε από το τραίνο της ευρώπης - το αντίθετο μάλιστα! θα είμαστε στο πρώτο βαγόνι, στην πρώτη γραμμή! σας ευχαριστώ πολύ. (η συνεδρίαση διακόπτεται στις 17.35 και επαναλαμβάνεται στις 18.00 )
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the fisheries fund because the new rules on the financing of the common fisheries policy will help fishermen to adapt to the new rules of the common fisheries policy and will help to improve the safety of working conditions, data collection and port infrastructure.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i should like to thank mr kurkoola, who is here today on behalf of the high representative and who has indeed included in his speech all that is already required by this report. it is a fact that many times cultural differences and religious differences have been used as tools to stir up hatred, to develop the theory that 'nothing can ever change' on these issues, and above all to foster intolerant attitudes. it is a fact that today there are, for example, religious minorities who suffer in various countries - christians, muslims, jews and baha'is - that is, a multitude of people with a different view even within the same religion. we are also using groups that are aggressive on the issues of religious diversity and this is creating big problems in a europe that has the principles and values of human rights, the council of europe convention, fundamental freedoms and human rights and on the other hand has to work with many of these countries on trade and development issues. the question is how the union uses these tools to be able to convey not its own cultural or political point of view but, above all, to create a framework in which all views can converge and common ground can be created. of course, this will result in us enjoying more democratic freedoms in many countries and under many regimes. the foreign office is indeed working in this context and in this way, while at the same time parliamentary diplomacy plays a huge role and cultural relations, since all of this is based on education, because education is the right tool. in this context, the issue of gender equality plays a special role. the way in which too many regimes treat women in the context of highlighting the "supposed" cultural differences that lead to intolerance because, after all, no religion includes intolerance in its basic writings. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for all the work that has been done on the various subjects during this period, because today is my last speech in the european parliament which i am leaving, and i would like to thank the bureau of the parliament and all my colleagues and wish that things will move faster, that more and more important things will happen for democracy, freedom, development and the rise of the younger generation, for a different and better world. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, it is commonly accepted that the existing legislation on shipments of waste has proved weak in a europe which is increasing rather than reducing the production of hazardous waste, as well as its illegal shipment to third countries. it is chilling that, according to eurostat, in 2010 the member states of the european union produced, apart from inorganic waste, 927 million tonnes of waste of which 101 million tonnes were hazardous waste, and even more nightmarish, to be transported and disposed of uncontrolled 70 million tonnes of waste per year according to the latest report on the implementation and enforcement of environmental law (impel). the lax legislation and low costs of waste treatment and disposal in developing countries, as well as the unacceptable hypocrisy of member states in disposing of hazardous waste, have led to an explosive situation. the rapporteur's proposals for more inspection plans, available to the authorities and the public, for giving the competent authorities more powers and for improving european cooperation between member states are therefore in line with our views.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, you are well aware that greece and other countries of the south are receiving the main stream of migrants and, while the problem is european, the practical solidarity of the other european countries is only in words. the greek government, and other governments, instead of demanding that the immigration policy be changed, that the dublin regulation be changed, many times, in order to deal with the problem, they resort to inhumane and ineffective methods. one such method stems from a recent decision of the legal council of the greek state adopted by the competent authorities, which allows the detention of foreigners to be extended beyond 18 months, essentially indefinitely, until their deportation becomes possible. this is done to cover up another dead end option of the greek government, which involves the arrest and detention of 7[nbsp ]500 foreigners, most of them in unacceptable conditions, an action which, because of this decision, has the effect of not addressing this problem which is a clear violation of both national and eu legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the second point i would like to draw to your attention, a point of more general value, is that it is time for the commission and the other european institutions to finally hear the calls for a change to the dublin regulation which traps people and creates these 'warehouses' in the countries of entry.
mr president, this is also my last speech to the european parliament and i would like to thank all my colleagues for the excellent cooperation we have had over the past five years. it has been a real privilege for me to work with and share the views we have had, through good times and bad, over the years in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and particularly on immigration. i thank you from the bottom of my heart, i assure you that these experiences will accompany me forever and of course i hope we will keep in touch in the years to come. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. greece has been at the centre of both the economic crisis and our migration crisis. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. what did greece do? he really did and he's doing the best he can. it has used every european opportunity and every european resource. it set up new reception centres for third-country nationals and abolished those that were not functioning properly. the flows to evros were stopped thanks to the efforts of the greek authorities with the assistance of frontex. the schengen evaluations now show the effort greece is making. it created a new asylum service, and now asylum applications are being accepted in greece at rates much higher than the european average. all this time, greece continues to ask for european solidarity and continues to ask europe for an integrated migration policy. what is the european union doing? he's not doing his best. the european union has not succeeded in changing the unjust dublin ii and has not succeeded in creating the internal resettlement mechanism, the mechanism we have been asking for from the beginning and the commission had promised to bring it forward. he couldn't evenly share the burden. it has not been able to convince all the member states that we need a comprehensive immigration policy with solidarity, with fair burden-sharing, with responsibility sharing for all. i hope, mr president, that my colleagues in the next parliamentary term will raise these issues so that we can all continue to fight together for an integrated immigration policy which puts people, the rights of all third country nationals and, above all, europe at its centre. (the president cut off the speaker)
question of the day: blue card. in a very short time, i would like to thank mrs lambert for the cooperation we have had over the years and, to conclude what i said before, i would like to stress that the reason why these problems are arising is the absence of an integrated readmission policy and the lack of cooperation with third countries. we have just signed the agreement with turkey, but we see that there are problems in many agreements. do you agree that cooperation should be stepped up and that readmission agreements with third countries should be implemented? thank you so much, again, for everything we've been through these past few years.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i should like to begin by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs and members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their contribution to this important issue of longterm investment and its financing, and i would ask that the final vote be postponed so that we can begin negotiations with the council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament approved the institutional framework for new psychotropic substances not covered by the united nations conventions on drug control. these are substances which can be used for laboratory or industrial purposes. the use of these substances, the effects of which are still being investigated, may involve enormous risks for man, both health problems and diversions with social implications. the available evidence shows that in recent years these substances have become very popular in the eu, especially among young people. the eu is therefore called upon to take immediate and decisive action to protect citizens, and in particular young people, in addition to this very important text. the commission also considers that the fight against drugs is one of the most important challenges for the eu, as it is a matter of public health and protection of the individual, a matter of social cohesion and security, and a priority in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. the war-craze of the political staff of capital in the european parliament observed in the context of the debate on the evolving eu-us-nato imperialist intervention in ukraine, in competition with capitalist russia, revealed the imperialist designs of the eu and the enterprise of the eu monopoly groups in the countries of the wider region. the eu's eastern partnership strategy aims to penetrate eu monopolies in ukraine and the markets of the countries of the wider region, with the aim of exploiting the energy-producing resources and controlling their transport routes. the kke from the outset condemned and denounced both the imperialist intervention of the eu and its allies in ukraine and the reactionary elements and criminal nazi organizations that seized power in a coup d'état, carrying out persecutions against communists and national minorities. the kke has demonstrated the aims of imperialist plans against the peoples and warned of the dangers for the peoples of the escalation and sharpening of the inter-imperialist confrontation between the eu - usa - nato and russia. the peoples must strengthen their anti-capitalist - anti-monopoly struggle against the imperialist plans of the eu and its allies and take their own path, a path of rupture and overthrow of the power of the monopolies, to conquer the workers' popular power and build socialism.
mr president, it is with great emotion that i have returned to the european parliament after 30 years. i was sent by greek voters to contribute to an important event. history is knocking on our door. are we able to open this door, yes or no? i was particularly interested to hear the majority of members of the european parliament talking about change, about upheaval, about something new. the european parliament is indeed at the forefront of this new era. we are not going to help europe to become its own autonomous, self-governing administrative entity. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it has been a key player in the process of european integration. dear president, i congratulate you on your election and i expect you to deliver at least 1% of all the things you said. but we do expect you to act and the other 99%. but most important of all is the fact that at this moment european territory is occupied by foreign troops... (the president cut off the speaker) i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - i know . mr president of the european parliament, i should like to begin by congratulating you on your re-election, but also on your consistency, your militancy and your strong faith in a united europe. i would also like to congratulate mr barroso here on his commitment to the european ideal and his very successful presidency of the commission. i must say that i am particularly pleased that the european council, now with the lisbon treaty and the new electoral system, has proposed to the european parliament the nomination of jean-claude juncker, a committed european of inherent value, experience and ability. dear friends, i feel a special thrill to be here today, in a familiar place, which i really feel like home. i have been a member of the european parliament in the very same seats as you. exactly ten years ago. i have fought for the same ideals, namely the common future of the peoples of europe. and in fact, much of what is now considered "data for everyone" was unthinkable to anyone then. because the european project is alive! he has flaws, he has weaknesses, he's moving unevenly. but it's moving on! and many times, with spectacular leaps. and that can only be seen if you look at things from a distance. indeed, there is leaping progress from one decade to the next. in one generation, what few believed and even fewer expected a few decades ago has happened. the pace of european integration is also accelerating. it is with great emotion that i welcome all my new colleagues and wish you success in your new careers. i am particularly pleased that i am here today to present to you the results of our presidency, the greek presidency. i will now switch, if you will allow me, to english. our priorities for the six-month presidency were the following: first, to tackle the euro architectural deficiencies as evidenced by the crisis, and mainly to deepen the emu. the conclusion of the single resolution mechanism (srm) regulation, together with the intergovernmental agreement on the single resolution fund (srf), thus constitutes a major step towards the completion of the banking union. our monetary union is now much better equipped to avoid future crises and better prepared to face them if they do happen. then, on jobs and growth: the approval of the own resources legislative package will ensure timely and steady financing of eu policies. the adoption of legislation in the framework of the single market act i and ii has further contributed to improving competitiveness. it facilitates and safeguards the economic activity of our citizens and businesses. i will just mention here the regulation on e-business and e-commerce, the directives on the posting of workers, electronic invoicing in public procurement and the disclosure of non-financial information of businesses also very important in fighting tax evasion. the council also agreed on the participation of the union in the capital increase of the european investment fund. this means more liquidity to restore normal lending to the economy, and in particular to the most important part of our economy, which is the smes. important investment files were also concluded while progress was made in the fields of telecommunications and infrastructure. better funding, more market flexibility, more access to the markets for everyone, more access to liquidity for smes, more transparency across our union. all these are different aspects of two things: more integration and more competitiveness. in other words, better prospects for job creation, employment, growth and prosperity, especially at times when huge unemployment levels threaten the fragile social cohesion in many of our member states. thirdly, border and migration management: this presents major challenges not only for the european south, but indeed for the whole of the eu, with far-reaching repercussions on economic growth and social cohesion. important achievements here were the revision of the list of countries for which a visa was required to enter the eu allowing citizens of some 20 non-eu countries to travel to the eu without a visa and the adoption of the directive on the conditions of entry and stay of third-country nationals in the context of intra-corporate transfers as well as, of course, the new frontex regulation. a major breakthrough was the adoption of the post-stockholm strategic guidelines in the area of freedom, security and justice which focus attention on the implementation of the principle of solidarity in the areas of asylum, border and migration management, the link between migration and the union's foreign policy that is cooperation with third countries and the more for more principle, etc. the development of effective return, readmission and visa policies, and continuous attention to an effective internal security framework. fourthly, the horizontal theme of the hellenic presidency has been to redefine and re-launch eu maritime policies in all their aspects, including security, growth and energy. a key component is the european maritime security strategy. this is the first time that the eu has developed such a holistic, cross-sectoral strategy, which will result in better protecting and promoting the security and economic interests of the eu and its member states at sea. it defines strategic interests and threats in the global maritime domain. the strategy promotes eu principles and values, the rule of law, democracy, respect for human rights, energy efficiency and security and a rules-based approach to maritime security, as reflected in the un international law of the sea. at institutional level, the adoption of the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and foundations is also a qualitative leap for european representative democracy, through genuinely european political parties. i congratulate parliament for voting this through. particular attention was also paid to enlargement, thus renewing relevant eu interest, while confirming the engagement of those countries to fulfill their accession criteria. a week ago, albania was awarded candidate status, while five months ago accession negotiations started with serbia. as regards turkey, it has been underlined in the framework of the eu-turkey association council that turkey's eu path depends on its fulfilling its eu obligations relating to cyprus. in all, the greek presidency concluded 67 pieces of legislation and advanced another 15 legislative initiatives, where consensus was reached between the commission and the council. this was done in four months, instead of the usual duration of six months, because of the european election. and we did it with a minimal budget of which not more than 40% was finally spent! now, we are particularly happy that the next presidency, the italian presidency, will take the lead and push all policies and initiatives further. we are very hopeful and optimistic that it will exceed all expectations so that 2014 will be regarded by everyone as a very successful, mediterranean year; a proud year for every european citizen! in the last three years, my country has been seriously challenged. europe was also challenged. some were predicting the so-called grexit, the idea that greece should exit the euro. some were predicting that the euro itself would not make it either. we proved them wrong. europe worked. our union has problems, but it also has the capacity to solve those problems and go ahead. we have proved that our peoples across our union can work together and build their common future in times of prosperity, obviously, but also during trying and very difficult moments of crisis. we proved that people across our union can change their countries in making them fitter and more competitive so that they can successfully demand change in our union, to make it stronger, safer, with more competitive economies and more stable democracies. in the last european elections, the european peoples did not vote against europe. on the contrary, they voted for more europe and better europe! i believe we have already started delivering although we still have a long way to go. but we have to do more than that. we have to bring our union closer to the hearts of the europeans. to prove that our union is not a series of bureaucratic procedures that nobody can follow, and that it is mainly about common prospects and common ideals that everyone shares and can understand right away. just a hundred years ago, a devastating war started here. it wasn't the only one in the years to come? it was dreadful, but not the worst one, either. our peoples suffered again and again one tragedy after another for decades. now europe is the most united we have ever had. the most democratic we have ever had. the most prosperous and most stable we've ever had in centuries. yet our people need to be inspired by our union and by its prospects. they need to feel our union closer to their hearts. i believe this is your first and foremost priority here in the european parliament: to bring our union closer to the hearts of our peoples! because you, in our european parliament, are indeed the very heart of our union.
president of the commission. - mr president, the end of the hellenic presidency marks the end of one parliamentary term and the beginning of a new one so it took place in a very specific situation. also, these last months have coincided with the beginning of the exit from the deep crisis in the european union, perhaps the most difficult we have had since the creation of the european community in the 1950s. we have now started on the road to recovery, but there is still a long way to go. i think it is important that, precisely at this moment, a country like greece, one of those most affected by the crisis, has been able – showing the european commitment of its leadership – not only to respond to the challenges at home but also to contribute constructively to our european agenda. i would like to thank personally prime minister samaras for the way in which he and his competent and dedicated team have carried out their duties and responsibilities, leading the council during this very specific and challenging time. under his skilful captaincy, the hellenic presidency has worked extremely hard – across many issues – to put in place what was necessary and to bring important decisions to fruition, against extremely tight deadlines because of the european parliament elections. prime minister samaras has already mentioned many of these issues so i will not list them again. i would prefer to concentrate my attention on the big achievements in relation to the economic situation. the reality is that economic confidence has improved and is improving in europe. growth across the european union is predicted at 1.6% this year, rising to 2% by 2015. investment is rebounding. our collective excessive deficits are now under the 3% mark for the first time since the beginning of the crisis. six more member states have now exited the excessive deficit procedure, bringing the total number down to 11, fewer than half of the 24 countries which were in this position in 2011. i believe this is progress; and it shows that the stability and growth pact is working. during the last months, and following ireland’s successful exit from the programme and the successful implementation of the programme in spain for the banks, portugal too has exited its financial assistance programme with success. the situation in greece and cyprus has stabilised, with real signs of improvement, particularly in terms of the correction of very important imbalances. we all know this process has been painful. i would say that prime minister samaras and his government know it better than anybody. however, after these difficult and necessary reforms, greece has now seen a further reduction in its deficit; it has projected growth; it has corrected historic external imbalances; and, indeed, it is recovering its competitiveness. despite the many prophets of doom, greece has remained an integral, loyal, member of the euro area. i remember that, not so long ago, i personally had to discuss these matters not only with many in the european union, but also outside the union with those predicting a greek exit and those predicting the implosion of the euro and even the disintegration of the european union. it would be helpful if they could consider that they were wrong. nobody denies that the recovery is still fragile and uneven. growth is modest. unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, is, the biggest challenge facing us. we cannot afford a jobless recovery or a lost generation. that is why we need to speed up the work that is now on the table of the council and parliament. in fact, it is now possible to make more progress in that direction because very important achievements have been realised during these last months. some of these developments were considered unthinkable a few years ago. if you had asked analysts in europe and outside europe, just two or three years ago, whether it would be possible to have a banking union and to have european central bank competence over national banks, they would have said it was not realistic. i remember, when the commission proposed the banking union in 2012, that when i used the words ‘banking union’ many people said this was not realistic. they did not even accept the words. they said: ‘ok, something about financial stability, but do not talk about banking union’ – and now we have a banking union. we now have agreement on both the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism and fund. this was a crucial sign of our commitment. it was a very important sign to the markets, and to our citizens, that economic and monetary union is here to stay and is going to be completed. alongside other important pieces of financial markets regulation, this will strengthen confidence and stability in the financial markets, and it will help to restore lending to the economy. let us be honest: without stability any prospect of growth is impossible. if this work of stability had not been done we could not now consider, as we are considering, the ways to foster growth at european level. another important issue is the european semester. it is already in its fourth edition, it has now reached cruising speed. it has taken us further down the road of economic coordination, which is also a prerequisite given the high level of interdependence of our economies. on the country-specific recommendations agreed at the european council last week, i want to underline that there was unanimous agreement, because sometimes i have the impression that those who agree at the european council, or at council level, then forget what they have agreed and say it is the others who have agreed. i repeat: the endorsement of the country-specific recommendations was unanimous in the member states, so it combines all the governments, left, right, north and south. this exercise is now making real progress. we are now in a phase of moving member states from crisis mode to a more forward-looking, reform-oriented perspective. the european semester, too, was unimaginable a few years ago. if, some years ago, we had asked whether the commission would one day have the power to look at the national budgets before they are adopted, people would have said it was impossible – and now it is not only possible, it is an obligation. why? because the crisis has highlighted how interdependent we are. the european semester, unimaginable a few years ago, has become an established focal point in the european calendar and economic governance. we now have in place a genuine debate about national economic policy, about what is happening in each of the member states, and i want to congratulate this house, the member states and the national parliaments, for the constructive role they have played, against very tight deadlines, in securing agreement on the country-specific recommendations and completing this semester of economic governance. that said – and i want also to highlight this – the idea being popularised in some countries that these are impositions from brussels, or from the commission, is completely false. that is not at all the way it works. the commission has the role of making proposals and is the initiator of the process. it is also the objective referee. the role of the commission is to check whether recommendations have been implemented or not at national level. but the decisions, i repeat, have been taken by all the governments, by the finance ministers and, ultimately, by the prime ministers of all our countries. so, please, it is time to avoid these discussions putting the blame on brussels for decisions that are taken by the governments themselves. i hope they will have the courage to stand by decisions they take collectively. we now need to focus specifically on implementation and there is no room for complacency because a lot of reforms are needed. we need to do more, for example, regarding employment, the youth guarantee, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, investment, taxation and, overall, on progress in terms of our competitiveness. these two developments – the european semester process and the completion of the banking union – were among the most important during the last six months. however, there are many other areas where we need to speed up our work, and i believe that the italian presidency has a lot of work to do here in terms of more focused action regarding the fight against youth unemployment and making better use of our eur 1 trillion budget for the next seven years. we hear talk of the ‘new marshall plan for europe’, but what we have is much more than the marshall plan. we have a budget for the next seven years which, if properly managed, can help us very much in terms of the investment needs which some of our countries do not themselves have a sufficient margin to meet. efficiency is another essential consideration, and that it why i was very happy with the results of the last european council in relation to refit, the programme for regulatory fitness at european level. during the last six months, through our refit programme, we have further lightened the load of legislation that no longer serves any useful purpose. we have withdrawn 53 more proposals, making a total of 293 withdrawn since 2006. it is interesting that these figures never appear publicly. in the conventional wisdom today there is still talk of bureaucracy from brussels. let me tell you that if all the governments made the same effort that we are making at european level to reduce the administrative burden, we could have a much better environment for our citizens and for our smes. let us not forget that 80% of the european budget is administered by member states themselves, and one-third of the administrative burden linked to eu legislation comes from national implementation. member states can and must play their role too, creating a more growth-friendly environment by cutting red tape, and this is a collective responsibility of the commission, of this parliament and also of the council. we have discussed other important issues during this semester. i will not repeat what has been said already in relation to the important area of justice, freedom and security, and especially the issue of migration. finally, let me say a word about enlargement because this has been a period in which we commemorated 10 years since the big enlargement of 2004. let us not forget that at the beginning of 2004 – when, by the way, my first commission took office – there were only 15 member states. now there are 28. we have almost doubled the membership. it is one of the greatest achievements ever, in terms of european history, to have this reunited continent. that is another reason why 2014 should be remembered: it is 25 years since the iron curtain came down, 70 years after d day, 100 years since the first world war, and also, in may, we celebrated 10 years of the reunification of europe. a union of 15 has been transformed into one of 28 and is open for the future, bringing together rich and less rich, big and small, old and new, central and peripheral, north, south, east and west. those member states have grown stronger economically, politically and democratically. latvia, which will hold the presidency from the start of 2015, successfully joined the euro area at the start of the year. lithuania – a country whose wealth has increased from 35% of the eu gdp average in 1995 to 78% – will become the 19th member of the euro area at the start of 2015. so, dear members of parliament, how can people still be negative about the enlargement and reunification of europe? how can they fail to understand the great convergence machine, the great creator of opportunities that the european union has been: not only working for those new member states but also projecting stability and thus avoiding many ukraines around us. for ukraine illustrates what would have happened if we had not had enlargement at the right time. i firmly believe that europe should remain open, particularly to the western balkans. it would be a complete mistake for europe to suggest at this stage, because of current difficulties, the closure of our borders. we have to manage some specific challenges, yes: freedom of movement is a sacred principle. we should combat any kind of misuse or abuse of the rights of freedom of movement, but it would be a real mistake for europe to close its borders. i have seen just recently, visiting serbia and albania, the progress that those countries, along with others, are making, and it would irresponsible on our part not to sustain the hope for those countries, if they meet the necessary conditions democratically and economically, of joining the european union when they are ready. this has been a very important presidency in very difficult times. prime minister samaras and his team have demonstrated their commitment, capacity and experience – indeed, it was the fifth hellenic presidency – as well as their strong national traditions. i believe that those traditions, which were apparent in the course of this presidency, can best be described by three greek words that underline our european approach as we face the challenge of the 21st century. logos implies pressing ahead with what is rational and right for europe; pathos means listening to all sides and understanding the needs of our citizens, especially those who are suffering the most; and ethos, implies preserving our european values of freedom, justice, and solidarity. i thank the greek presidency and i thank you for your attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, europe, since its foundation, has always taken two steps forward and one step back. but there is always a step forward to move towards a europe of growth, solidarity, freedom and democracy. in this direction, despite the adverse conditions in greece and europe, the greek presidency moved to deepen economic and monetary integration by adopting the single resolution mechanism, the single resolution fund, promoting growth and employment, adopting the guidelines on electronic invoicing of public procurement, on e-banking, on e-commerce, on combating tax evasion; the commission has also taken steps to promote the migration sector, to adopt the guidelines on intra-operational movement to third countries, and to adopt the frontex regulation. it is true what the prime minister said that in just four months the greek presidency has completed 67 legislative texts, reached agreement with the council on 15 other legislative texts on money laundering, on terrorism, on europol, on the protection of children in criminal proceedings. the greek presidency has moved things forward by promoting solidarity policies, by adopting the regulation on the european solidarity fund for natural disasters, by working to complete the enlargement files for albania, montenegro and serbia, by promoting transparency, by publishing non-financial information on businesses. mr president, the italian presidency now takes the reins. we wish the italian presidency every success, we congratulate the greek presidency which has taken things forward for europe because the solution in europe is the enlargement and deepening of democratic institutions, not populism, not euroscepticism.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the greek economy, which is a very important one, and that the commission has also taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the greek economy, which is a very important one. we also received the messages from the european elections. the greeks therefore called for wider political alliances and more europe. the european council has made the wrong choice and the strategic mistakes of harsh austerity have brought eurosceptics and the far right into our midst. the european union had to choose or at least invent another way of talking about the success of the europe of solidarity, since greece has achieved everything it has achieved through the hard sacrifices of the greeks. and that should concern us all as we have found ourselves unprepared to protect europe's most vulnerable citizens. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. because it's not as self-evident as we thought it was. good luck with the italian presidency!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, as vice-chairman of the ecr, the most anti-federalist political group in the european parliament, i would like to point out that the greek presidency is a monument to failure. it is not a success story, just as the policy pursued in our country, greece, is not a success story, a memorandum policy which has dismantled the country. since may 2010 to date, greece has taken out 214 billion euros in loans, a huge amount of over 120% of gdp. and you would think that with that amount, the greek economy could have grown, it could have taken off. but what is the reality? one and a half million unemployed; thousands of shops closed. six thousand suicides; 40% reduction in wages and pensions; 40% of the greek population below the poverty line. the public debt now stands at 175% of gdp; the budget deficit is 11,5%; the psi with which the insurance funds were wound up; 50 billion euros to bail out the greek oligarchs who were the big shareholders in the banks. greece has thus become a social graveyard because mr samaras has followed the policy of the troika. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. you have lost the opportunity to identify with the european parliament against the troika, whereas you have supported the troika. you have lost the opportunity to stop the austerity policy which you have supported as a classic merkel policy. you have missed the opportunity to call the committee, which serves the creditors, to order. you missed the opportunity to call on mr draghi and his cronies not to speculate at the expense of the greek people, who are paying 100% of the bonds the central bank bought at a discount of at least 40%. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, unfortunately the lisbon treaty has weakened the role of the rotating presidency so that the country holding the presidency is finally called upon to implement preconceived decisions by technocrats and non-parliamentary actors involved in intergovernmental bodies. so who is a successful or a failed presidency for? the european leaders speak of impressive work, excellent results and prudent, almost spartan, financial management, and they speak of the one who, at the beginning of the presidency, was referred to as the weakest link. the greek presidency has followed the neoliberal policy of extreme austerity without the slightest hesitation, despite the strong arguments it has made in the face of the unprecedented humanitarian crisis in the country, and in the heart of europe. and this is a threat to all the peoples of europe, as greece is the pilot for everything they want to implement. and i'll mention a few typical examples: abolition of collective bargaining, complete liberalisation of redundancies, complete absence of the state from health, pension, social and welfare expenditure; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective, which is to be adopted by the end of the year. i would like to conclude by mentioning two very important developments during the greek presidency which demonstrate that european union policy is being decided in the absence of the governments of the member states, the european institutions and the european parliament itself. and this is a major issue of democracy and concerns us all. i am referring to the ukrainian crisis and the question of syrian chemicals. in both cases it was economic interests that determined the political behavior of the governments they supported. we believe that such a successful presidency has proved disastrous for the greek people, that it is a threat to the peoples of europe and that it is dangerous for the future of the european union itself. we are committed, together with our italian colleagues, to fighting so that the italian presidency does not have the same successful results. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, mr barroso spoke a moment ago and said that europe is now more united and more democratic. you all know that ancient greece was the cradle of democracy. what many of you may not know is that in modern greece, at a time when the greek people are suffering the consequences of the implementation of the troika memoranda, namely economic misery, hunger, poverty, unemployment, unbearable taxation and citizen suicides, an oligarchic co-government of mr samaras and mr venizelos, the leaders of the second and fourth largest political parties, as the recent european elections have shown, has abolished the separation of powers which is a basic principle of democracy. by manipulating justice and interfering with its work, he has destroyed fundamental principles of our country's constitution. in particular, in order to neutralize its real and only political opponent, the golden dawn party, the third political force in the country, because it has no political arguments to counter it, it imprisoned its leader and six of its mps without proving the charges against them. he forbids anyone not imprisoned from participating in party events. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we call on the whole of the democratic political world in europe to condemn the illegal practices of the greek government. we want to see an end to the illegal political persecution and the immediate release of the leader and the members of our party. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr prime minister, was the fifth greek presidency a success or a failure? on the one hand, the presidency continued all the questions of community legislation which were in progress. the commission has already made a number of proposals. these include the political agreement on the single resolution mechanism and its fund and, as regards maritime policy, the inclusion of the reference to respect for the law of the sea. on the other hand, the presidency has not taken the necessary initiatives on issues which it has itself identified as priorities, such as youth unemployment, which is becoming a structural element of societies in crisis, and the migration issue, where more change is needed on the union's part. i suggest, mr prime minister, that you work closely with the incoming italian presidency to deal effectively with this common problem. and while we have not seen specific proposals on hot issues, the presidency has pushed the controversial issue of genetically modified organisms by granting more rights to multinational companies. we're still wondering why. the presidency was completely absent from the ukraine problem, while the other institutions were on the spot. finally, from a country which has acted as a guinea pig in dealing with the huge crisis, one would expect initiatives to be taken to strengthen the community method and democracy in the relationship between the european commission and the member states. unfortunately, we didn't see any of that. the greek presidency has made a serious effort, but it has not achieved the very important objectives it had set itself, perhaps because it has concentrated on the more bureaucratic - albeit necessary - work.
mr president, the troika has fulfilled its anti-people mission, has furthered the anti-people policy of the european union, and has struck new blows at the rights of workers in greece and in all the member states of the european union. it has strengthened big business in the context of the new economic governance and the so-called banking union against the people. the new democracy and pasok coalition government took an active role on behalf of the greek bourgeoisie in promoting imperialist strategy and the design of the european union. it spearheaded the open imperialist intervention of the european union, the us and nato in ukraine, in support of the government of the fascist forces there, it deployed the eu headquarters in greece to direct the imperialist military intervention of the european union in the central african republic, it promoted the european union maritime security strategy to build up a naval firepower of the european union against the peoples. the european union must be united in its efforts to combat terrorism. the communist party of greece will fight to strengthen the struggle against the anti-people measures, to organize the popular counterattack to overthrow the power of the monopolies ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, i have three comments: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can organize a conference to discuss the internal affairs of greece. second comment: the first slogan of the european people's party in the european elections was very rightly the fight against populism. we shall fight this battle in the european parliament, we shall fight it against the populists and we shall advance the ideas of european union, those which lead to european integration. the third observation: the solution in europe is more europe, it is a better europe, it is the enlargement and deepening of democratic institutions. and that's our goal. and a note on the crisis: if europe has experienced the crisis so dramatically, it is because it did not have the tools. if we compare europe with the united states, the united states manages 6% of its gnp at the federal level, while we manage 1%; the united states has the ability to issue bonds, we cannot; and during the crisis, they printed money, even if it was slightly inflated, in seven banks. we must therefore see the european vision, more europe, better europe, moving forward. the peace that has been achieved over the last 60 years is due to the european vision, and the consolidation of democracy in the southern countries of europe and now in the eastern countries of europe is due to the european vision and the european construction.
mr president, mr prime minister of greece, the greek presidency has shown that it has succeeded. greece has shown that it has succeeded, but now that the lights are going out we need support because the greek government, whose core is new democracy, the party i represent here in the european parliament, is proceeding with structural reforms and one of them is the partial privatisation of the ppp, against the old trade unionists and the left. but we need support, we need jobs, because in greece we don't have them, and project bonds are one such idea; we need to stabilise the economic landscape and the commitment to reduce greek debt taken by our partners in november 2012 must be implemented immediately, after the stress tests of the banks by the european central bank have been completed under the same conditions and the same rules.
mr president, in practice the greek presidency has proved to be a worthy servant of the politics of the european elites. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this policy has not only failed to produce any positive results for europe; it has also failed to bring about a satisfactory balance between the two. on the contrary, the banking union which you are supposed to have achieved is in fact a banking disintegration, it will reduce rather than increase confidence in the banks of the periphery, particularly the euro zone, but more generally it is a policy which in the long run leads to the disintegration of europe, to the collapse of european integration. it is a question of a completely different policy, a different europe, a europe of the people and not a europe of the capital markets, which you are serving.
i do not deny that your speech made a very good impression. however, there is a gap between what you say and what you do, and we are all waiting to see what you do. i'm focusing on one thing: the turkish invasion and occupation forces are currently in cyprus, that is to say on european soil. what will you do to implement the decision of the united nations and the security council calling for the withdrawal of troops? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
in writing. i am a newly elected greek mep, mr prime minister of italy, and i warmly congratulate you on your speech and your knowledge of greek history. you've referred to the parthenon, aristotle, archimedes, odysseus and telemachus, evidently arguing that the enemy of the good is the best. so you are getting a healthy and strong rock, because generally speaking the government of my country has had excellent results, at minimal cost and in a short time: with 67 legislative acts and 15 interventions, making a decisive contribution to the deepening of the european institutions. we know that italy gave birth to the renaissance, and now it needs a renaissance of ideas and principles, which europe needs after the crisis. i wish you every success and i believe that with your passion you will serve our common goal of making europe a true protagonist of development for future generations.
in writing. the priorities of the italian presidency are characterised by the same common strategic objective which permeates the whole of the eu's anti-people policy: to ensure the profitability of the eu's monopoly groups, to strengthen their position in global monopoly competition. the debate and the debates on the maintenance or relaxation of the restrictive fiscal policy do not imply any relaxation of the anti-people measures for the working class and the popular strata. on the contrary, they require their intensity to ensure high profitability in monopolies. the italian presidency's commitment to promoting capitalist restructuring, its efforts to further strengthen surveillance mechanisms and the incorporation into the eu treaties of the anti-people interstate agreements of the "fiscal compact" and the "european stability mechanism" are preparing an escalation of the eu and government attack against workers. the main priority of the italian presidency is to strengthen the eu's cfsp and its military arm, the common security and defence policy, particularly in the middle east, libya - north africa and sub-saharan africa - sahel - somalia regions, which are of particular interest to the italian bourgeoisie. it thus marks a new round of imperialist interventions by the eu, multiplying the risks of generalized military conflicts with dramatic consequences for the peoples. it presages an intensification of repression against immigrants.
mr president, on behalf of the ecr, we call for the third statement by the high representative for foreign affairs, mrs ashton, on the serious issue of the destruction of syria's chemical arsenal in the mediterranean. what's happening right now is very serious. on board the u.s. navy ship
madam president, although in 1946 the paris peace conference obliged germany to pay war reparations to greece, which today amount to eur 106 billion plus interest, the federal republic of germany continues to refuse to pay this amount. at the same time, germany refuses to repay the forced occupation loan granted to it by greece in 1942, which today amounts to eur 54 billion plus interest. the debt of germany to greece also includes compensation to the relatives of the thousands of victims who were executed by the german occupation troops in hundreds of martyred greek towns such as disto, kalavryta, viannos and elsewhere. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support us in forcing germany to pay its debts to greece, which so far amount to at least eur 162 billion plus interest.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. critics' motives are often negative, but their reasoning is to some extent sound. we must therefore respond with more initiatives by the heavily indebted countries to drastically reduce public spending, to reduce the number of civil servants and to promote the necessary structural changes. at the same time, those in a better financial position must help finance programmes to promote employment, small and mediumsized enterprises, accept fiscal rules that facilitate investment and new regulations on public debt. the over-indebted must dare and the financially strong must stand together. there is no other realistic way in my view.
madam president, the attack by the european union monopolies and the bourgeois governments is being promoted by the repression of workers' and people's struggles in all the member states. the greek government is further privatising the state electricity company as part of the european union's single strategy for liberalising energy, which is accepted by all parties supporting it. this energy is becoming too expensive for the people, a field of profit for monopolies, the object of competition, interventions and wars, as in ukraine, where the european union, the united states and nato are taking the lead. thousands of ordinary households who are left without electricity because they cannot pay are now being asked to pay even more. the new democracy and pasok coalition government recruited the strikers of the electricity company, as it had done previously with the shipbuilders, teachers, subway workers. class justice declares strikes illegal, governments strike the right to strike in the direction of the anti-worker offshoot of the european union, the "monte iii" regulation. the coalition government and the troika are already pushing for the effective prohibition of the right to strike and the introduction of the 'lock out'. the kke demands the abolition of political recruitment and of laws restricting trade union freedoms. it is fighting to abolish all the laws that liberate energy, to make it a cheap commodity for the people.
in writing. your priorities, mr juncker, make extensive reference to five pillars of eu migration policy. since preventing and tackling illegal immigration will help to prevent the loss of migrant lives, in tragedies that occur daily in the mediterranean and aegean seas, and since strengthening immigration policies should be an integral part of the union's external and development policies, i would like to ask you the following question. on the basis of the overall approach to migration and mobility and applying the principle 'more incentives for more results', do you intend to consider the possibility of redefining financial policy, in particular for the southern member states, which are also the frontiers of europe? it is well known that these countries, such as greece and italy, are under severe migratory pressure and consequently cannot cope effectively with the new data in the field of migration management. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the mediterranean and the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat the problem of migration.
mr president, this is a substantive matter, a breach of the rules of procedure. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the council's proposals are implemented. the european parliamentary group of the communist party of greece protests and does not accept the characterization given to a member of parliament as speaking on behalf of the unregistered. the non-attached members are not a political group under the rules of procedure of the european parliament. so no one can stand up for them or represent them. any unregistered member may speak for himself or on behalf of his party. it is therefore necessary to clarify this matter. the communist party's group in the european parliament is independent of any political group and has its own seat in the european parliament and in all its bodies.
madam president, i would like to make a general comment on the situation in ukraine, which has had a significant impact on the european union's strategic cooperation with russia. in my view, the policy pursued by the european union in ukraine was wrong. political expediency has fuelled the ethnic divisions in the population of this country, a peaceful demonstration has become a bloodbath, and people who had previously lived and worked peacefully have turned on each other. what happened in ukraine is very likely to happen in any country of the european union where there are religious and ethnic minorities. the european union should therefore deal with the sensitive issue of minorities with particular care. it must not be indifferent when their rights are violated, but it must not use its policy to incite, provoke and incite minorities to revolt, because then there is a risk that a third country outside the european union will intervene and create problems in the european union. if this happens, the european union itself risks becoming a source of turmoil and conflict between its states.
blue-card question. – my question is about isds. i am quoting from the guidelines given by mr juncker in today’s speech. i will not accept, says mr juncker, that the jurisdiction of courts in european union member states is limited by special regimes for universal disputes. we heard another version from the commissioner, so i would like to ask mr martin which of these opinions he supports: the opinion of mr juncker or the opinion of the commissioner?
the question is "blue card". mr president, i would like to put the following question to my colleague: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. the ongoing negotiations for the conclusion of the us-eu transatlantic trade and investment agreement (ttip) are taking place amid an intensification of the eu's inter-imperialist contradictions with the other imperialist centres and within the eu itself. the bargaining and confrontations of the bourgeois governments, both within the eu and with the us, are aimed at securing more benefits for the monopolies they represent on each side. the major losers from this agreement will be the people of both the eu member states and the united states. the further opening up of both markets will intensify the exploitation of the working class in the name of competitiveness. the remaining labour rights are seen by the monopolies as an obstacle to the profitable placement of their capital. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. all the workers' living conditions will deteriorate, increasing the risks to public health and the environment. it is in the interests of the working people in all eu member states and the us to strengthen their common struggle against capitalist exploitation, against the common enemy: the monopolies and their power.
in writing. the debate which opened up at eu level on the so-called maternity leave and which ended with the withdrawal of the proposal for a directive by the european commission reveals that motherhood in the eu and on the capitalist road of development is not only not protected but persecuted. even what was proposed in the draft in the name of formal maternity protection was rejected by eu staff and civil governments. they cynically declared that the protection of motherhood comes at a cost to the capitalists. the crocodile tears of the political representatives of the monopolies in the european parliament throughout the debate convince no one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the kke is fighting for an explicit ban on the dismissal of women during and after pregnancy by employers, the introduction of maternity, paternity and parental leave with full pay and benefits for the entire time scientifically necessary for the needs of the psychological health of the mother and the child, its proper upbringing and development in the first months of life. she's entitled to full and free health care, with all prenatal and postnatal examinations free of charge.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, first of all we would like to welcome the decision of the house to discuss this matter. as you know, we put a written question on this last wednesday and we now consider that the important political initiative we took in the first place justifies the struggle of the cretan people, the struggle of the peoples of the mediterranean, to be informed on this issue. we are making it clear that this issue has been raised for a very long time in greece. in january 2014, i put it to the greek parliament and later to the council of europe. you haven't given us any answers, mr. gozi. i think there's more concern about what you said. let's take it from the top. what is the security that exists for the project? question no 1: why should syria's chemicals be destroyed by hydrolysis on board? this is a method applied for the first time in this case, and this activity is evolving. secondly, why not destroy it outside the confines of the mediterranean basin, in a remote, remote and uninhabited area? thirdly, the project is being carried out, as you say and as you know, with the participation of the european union and you have enormous responsibilities in this matter, on board the cape ray ship, which has proved unsuitable for these procedures. this procedure cannot be done. she is dangerous. so you have all this data in front of you and you haven't given us a definite answer. first of all, this is not an international project. china and russia are no longer involved, and a german frigate has left. it's a united states project. how do you know it's out of the closed basin and in international waters? tell us what the mark is. apparently, the hydrolysis is happening right now, and we need you to tell us where. what measures are in place to ensure the safety of the citizens themselves? there is a huge concern about this. you haven't given us any answers about what will happen if there is an accident. what 's the alternative plan ? so there is no answer to that question either.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is logical and consequential that at the same time we allow certain individuals to make a fortune at the expense of the people by manufacturing and selling such weapons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when we tolerate today the use of chemical weapons by the ukrainian government; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore hypocritical to claim to defend world peace and security by destroying syria's chemical weapons, when we do not intervene in advance and decisively to neutralize and destroy them in countries known to possess such weapons and when we do not hold the manufacturers and traffickers of such weapons fully responsible for the consequences of their use. the european union is not prepared to accept any guarantees from the united states, which is responsible for any imminent threat of damage, because it is not bound by the law of the sea to which it is not a signatory.
madam president, the destruction of syrian chemicals in the mediterranean, off the coast of crete, is a dangerous act with incalculable consequences for the peoples and the environment of the region. the united states of america and the european union, after the bloodshed in syria in the interests of the monopolies, are putting the very health and lives of the peoples of the entire mediterranean at risk. the european union, the greek government and the other governments of the european union are defiantly ignoring the protests and resolutions and complaints of the people. they're hiding the truth. the kke, through initiatives and questions to the greek parliament, the european parliament and the high representative catherine ashton, has expressed its categorical opposition. the commission has also taken the initiative of sending a communiqué to ten communist and workers' parties in the mediterranean denouncing this operation. the kke will continue its efforts to strengthen the anti-monopoly and anti-capitalist popular struggle to prevent the environmental destruction of the region of crete and the mediterranean in general, in defence of the life and rights of the people.
madam president, i am from crete and i am a professor of physics at the university there. i am therefore in a position to better assess the risks of chemical hydrolysis being chosen as the method of destroying syria's chemical weapons. in a sea as enclosed as the mediterranean, it could lead to irreversible environmental and social disaster. i therefore feel obliged to protest strongly against this development and i have not been reassured by the assurances of the honourable member mr gozi. the hydrolysis processes that have already begun are taking place in some obscure part of the sea near crete or libya in the absence of official information or monitoring by reputable scientists. so the questions raised about the safety of the method and the choice of the mediterranean have led the people of greece to agony and anger and to large rallies, especially in crete. the mediterranean is a sea of cross-cultural contact, but it has suffered great environmental damage from a variety of sources. it is a request from the coastal peoples and it must be a request from the whole of europe that this historic sea should be slowly but surely returned to its original destination. it would be tragic if it were to end up the other way around. so even at this last moment a change of course is imperative.
madam president, lithuania tried to join the euro area in 2006 but it will achieve this in january 2015. this delay has proved very productive for lithuania and the european union. the country has had adequate time to prepare itself in a better way to face the challenge and the european union has found new ways of managing the systemic risks. in my view, lithuania’s successful participation in the euro area will depend on five factors. firstly, on the quality of its preparation. lithuania is much better prepared than greece was 14 years ago. to give you an example, lithuania’s public debt is less than 40% of gdp, whereas in greece, my country, it was more than 100 %. secondly, lithuania seems to be in a position to use the period following the adoption of the euro to solve its particular economic problems and catch up with the most advanced members of the euro area in terms of competitiveness. thirdly, the euro area has developed a sophisticated control system and therefore the systemic risk has been greatly reduced. fourthly, lithuania has put its finances and its economy in order. it now needs more development opportunities and a better financed banking system. finally, lithuania has to cope with a somewhat unstable international environment but the most probable scenario is that there will not be a major crisis which could deny the country its successful participation in the euro area. i would just like to congratulate our lithuanian friends and assure them that the comparison with greece lacks any substance. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the euro is not used as a currency, and that the member states are not obliged to use the euro as a currency. i would like to take this opportunity to point out that the european central bank should stop supporting the policies of austerity and the socialisation of bank losses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. finally, i would point out once again that the european central bank should stop speculating at the expense of the greek people, having bought bonds worth at least eur 54 billion at a 40% discount and demanding that these bonds be paid at their nominal value, i.e. 100%, thus further impoverishing the impoverished greek society.
mr president, yesterday morning president juncker said at the beginning of his speech that dreams have a place here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was a one-second explanation, but the president denied it. i believe that this is a destruction of the very concept of democracy and i ask president schulz, whom i know very well, to admit his mistake.
the concern of the bourgeois governments, the european union and all the parties that support it, with regard to youth unemployment, is both hypocritical and pretentious. the european union's unemployment recycling programmes are not aimed at relieving unemployed young people who are deprived of both unemployment benefits and medical care. on the contrary, alongside the further financing of monopolies with hot money, they also subsidize enterprises with free labour, promoting a more general reduction in wages and a generalization of flexible employment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. why is that ? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the communist party of greece fights for substantial protection of the unemployed, unemployment benefits for all without conditions, insurance and free medical care for as long as unemployment lasts, reduction of utility bills, no power and water cuts. he's fighting to stop the banks from going after them.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of young people from the risks of exposure to radiation is a very good one. it must be placed as a top priority on the agenda of governments throughout the european union. the unemployment rate among young greeks is close to 60%, which means that it has exceeded the alarm threshold. in my country, greece, unfortunately, the european funds and programmes for tackling youth unemployment are managed by the government as it sees fit. the young people who manage to get into a programme will get their money after almost a year, because the government, instead of using the money of european taxpayers for the purpose for which it is earmarked, withholds it and presents it as a primary surplus. on the contrary, it increases unemployment by continuing to lay off workers as demanded by the troika and the international loan sharks. in 2014, an additional 6,500 new redundancies were announced in the public sector, while in the private sector, mass redundancies were liberalised. we call for a reassessment of the criteria for funding and for more funds to be allocated to the countries of the south, which have been hit the hardest by the economic crisis and the policy of austerity. this will help to reduce youth unemployment so that they are not forced to look for work in other countries. the responsibility for the increased youth unemployment lies entirely with governments who do not use the money of european programmes aimed at development to give young people solutions and opportunities for their future in work. i would like to take a moment of your time, mr president, to make a point. i am sorry to see that the chamber of the european parliament has been empty since the vote. it seems that the honourable members have solved the problem of youth unemployment in their countries or simply do not care.
the mass unemployment affecting young people in the european south, as a result of the implementation of the memoranda and the austerity policy, is leading to social exclusion and marginalisation. in greece, youth unemployment has reached 58%, although in the last four years our country has received 214 billion euros in loans. but these sums were not invested in the real economy to create thousands of new jobs, but were given to pay back old bad loans and to bail out german, french, greek and other banks. to tackle youth unemployment, the european union must invest in the knowledge economy, i.e. in education, new technologies and innovation. but the memoranda and the policies of forced fiscal adjustment applied in the south are reducing rather than increasing public investment in education and new technologies. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
mr president, young people are not just one of the weak links in the labour chain, alongside women, disabled people and those from minorities. there's this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that young people are not exploited and impoverished by employers or by modern day slavers. but it will also be the young people who will be the blood vessels of innovation, the new ideas that will push the frontiers of entrepreneurship, the ones who will support new forms of sustainable development. we have therefore a duty to provide them with continuing and specialised training, to provide them with sound business motives and a safety net for their inevitable failures. we therefore insist on the full implementation of the youth guarantee programme and call for an increase in the budget from eur 6 billion to eur 21 billion, but at the same time for measures to ensure that the money is efficiently absorbed. we are firmly in favour of the disconnection of the concept of 'reform' from the word 'reform' in the youth labour market.
mr president, commissioner, president juncker said very well yesterday that in the european union we have 29 member states and the 29th is home to the unemployed. i am speaking on behalf of this member state, because there are 1 303 000 greeks living there, of whom 734 000 are under 25 years of age. the question is, commissioner, what are we going to do with them? what are we going to do with these young people, of whom 178,000 are over-responsible? is the youth guarantee enough? even if we extend it to 30 years as we propose today in the resolution? is the 340 million euros coming into my country through this programme enough? the answer in both cases is no. are apprenticeship programmes sufficient, which seem not to be focused on the countries of the south that have suffered the most from the crisis? the answer is no. in any case, we must not give the impression that we have the magic wand, that we politicians can create jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. we have no right to talk about the excluded generation anymore, but we have no right to even talk about an excluded life. the european union must adopt targeted policies, in countries such as greece which have suffered from the crisis, for small and mediumsized enterprises without distorting competition. we must increase all the instruments available for liquidity, enable a small and medium-sized enterprise to create a job. these must be the targets. and the goals that are set must be measurable. i think that's the highest duty of all of us here.
mr president, in greece, with the implementation of the pact and the austerity programmes, and in spain too, youth unemployment is as high as 60%. this means that the european union's policies have not solved the problem, and that is why euroscepticism and extremism are reviving and growing. in addition, young people who are out of education and employment cost tens of billions. i would also point out that some funds have not been used. this means that the planning must be adjusted to make it easier to absorb these funds. let me add another dimension: it must be easier for businesses to make new investments by means of lending, but also by means of tax incentives and stability for those who invest and recruit naturally, and by reducing the differences in interest rates between member states, since there are very large differences for businesses. finally, the european union must definitely put emphasis both on new technologies, since there is a huge market in this area which we can claim, and on innovation to make up for the lack of competitiveness with the united states, india and china, because it is not enough to have jobs, but we must have jobs which give europe's young people the opportunity to become protagonists, but also jobs which can help women, who are very much affected by unemployment.
in writing. never before has europe had such a talented young generation. this generation is called upon to survive in unprecedented economic and social conditions, with no escape routes. today, millions of young european citizens are not working or studying. they have no choice, no tomorrow. the european south, and greece in particular, is suffering from youth unemployment. because a young person without a job, without a job prospect, is a young person without a vision, without the will to create. the european parliament has a duty to act, to use all its institutional powers, to deal effectively with the greatest social scourge of our time. we must demand the application of the financial instruments already available, but above all we must establish new flexible mechanisms, readily adaptable to the economic realities of each member state. reducing red tape, promoting tax breaks for young entrepreneurs and start-ups is a first step. the second is to strengthen mechanisms such as the european certificate of vocational qualifications, while recognising non-formal education and supporting quality apprenticeships. any financial facility, whether through the esf, through programmes such as cosme and erasmus+, or through low-interest loans from the eib, must be made directly available to young people.
madam president, i think iraq has entered the final phase of disintegration. and it has covered a huge distance (in the negative sense of the term). i would like to remind you that there was an ambition to build a nation, to create a modern democracy, and now we have a bloody chaos. i believe that if we had more europe, there would have been fewer mistakes in the case of iraq. if we did not hesitate to have a common foreign policy, if we did not hesitate to have a common defence policy, we would have interventions in the right direction. we're afraid of the cost, but ultimately we can't avoid it, because the collapse of iraq could lead to an energy crisis that would have enormous costs, it could lead to the strengthening of iran and the escalation of the confrontation with israel, which would also have consequences, it could lead to a new wave of refugees that would be extremely costly, it could even lead to the strengthening of the radical islamists and the destabilization of governments in the arab world. so, whatever we do, we have a bill in front of us: most of europe is the most economical prospect.
madam president, 71 years ago the so-called 'big three' met at yalta, roosevelt, churchill and stalin, and announced, in expressing the wishes of the peoples, that after the end of the war colonialism would be abolished, there would be self-determination of peoples, respect for minorities, protection of individual rights. let's not get carried away. today these three proclaimed do not really exist. there is the problem of self-determination of peoples, there is the problem of self-determination of the kurds, there is ireland which has not yet gained its full independence, there are the basques, there are the catalans, there are the northern hemisphere. are we finally going to face the problems? - yes or no ?
the question is "blue card". madam president, there is no doubt that violence must be condemned wherever it comes from. but my question is: what is the cause? does the palestinian people need self-determination and statehood or not?
madam president, the communist party of greece condemns in the strongest possible terms the barbaric and criminal attack by the israeli state against the palestinian people. the israeli army's continuous air strikes have killed hundreds and injured thousands of palestinians, and there are thousands of displaced people. israel, discouraged by the all-round support it receives from the united states and the european union, is preparing ground warfare. the european union has a huge responsibility because it equates the perpetrators with the victims. the european parliament, in fact, by its unacceptable resolutions, takes the lead in exonerating the israeli crimes, putting the palestinian people and their just struggle in the position of the accused. the european union and the governments of the member states are systematically upgrading their political, economic, commercial and military relations with israel and are conducting joint military exercises, such as those jointly with greece. the communist party of greece expresses its full solidarity with the struggling palestinian people and demands that the air raids against the people of palestine be stopped now and that ground operations be prevented. the joint military exercises and all military agreements between the greek government and israel should be cancelled, and all political, economic and military agreements between the european union and israel should be immediately suspended. we demand an end to the israeli occupation and the creation of an independent, viable and sovereign palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital. we demand recognition of the state of palestine as a member state of the un; the demolition of the unacceptable wall separating jerusalem, the west bank and gaza; the immediate lifting of the blockade of palestinian territories; the immediate end of settlements and the departure of settlers; the immediate release of all palestinian political prisoners in israel and the right of return of all palestinian refugees to their homes.
madam president, we are discussing today another european parliament resolution on the tragic events in palestine. i would remind you of the results after the last resolution: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further aggravated by the recent events. i would also like to remind you of the results of the hundreds of resolutions adopted by international organizations since 1967, which have been endorsed by almost all the members of the present european union and which are much harsher and more demanding towards israel than the present one. ladies and gentlemen, what has all this achieved? six million palestinian refugees without the right to return to their homeland, two and a half million of them in 25 camps with miserable living conditions, 450,000 settlements in the west bank and 100,000 in jerusalem, 750 km of walls reaching 12 meters high, 350,000 destroyed roots of palestinian olive trees, thousands dead and apartheid conditions. what do you think today's resolution can change, ladies and gentlemen? let's not fool ourselves. the israeli occupation and the complete impunity of israel for the crimes it has been committing for half a century are the measure of what is happening in palestine. as a palestinian citizen, i make an appeal and challenge to the european parliament. the palestinians do not need another resolution. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the european parliament to take a decision on the matter. just one. the palestinian people have the courage and the determination to do the rest, to build a free and independent homeland. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
answer "blue card". as a greek, i'm going to talk to you about occupation. if you knew what occupation means - because we greeks have lived it - you would understand what resistance means. in this process, the palestinian people are resisting to achieve what they lack, a free and independent homeland.
madam president, nigeria, an african country, and greece, a european country, differ in many respects. but they are similar as countries in the extent of political corruption and social inequality. their central governments are indifferent to the people and the misdeeds of mps and ministers, with the cooperation of political parties, are not brought to justice. in nigeria, the activities of boko haram and ansaru are distracting public opinion from the real problems. terrorist attacks are a blow to the people. the so-called development model masks the real problems, in order to survive the politicians and serve business interests. i am not saying that the european parliament should be unconcerned about the problems of the member states, but that it should be concerned about the problems of the neighbourhood. in greece, the co-government, serving selfish purposes with the assistance of the executive and the judiciary, has established a peculiar dictatorship. in greece there is no boko haram and ansarou. there are corrupt judges, corrupt politicians, funding of state actors and political persecution of opponents. so the secretary general and 8 mps of golden dawn, the third political force, were taken to prison on trumped-up charges on the orders of prime minister samara. a number of members, in violation of article 19 of the un charter, have been unconstitutionally denied the right to freedom of opinion, expression and speech.
in writing. the kke votes against the joint resolution signed by the parties of the monopoly coalition - epp, social democrats, liberals - together with the conservatives-reformists and the greens. this is a declaration of war by the political representatives of capital demanding an escalation of the eu-us-nato imperialist intervention in ukraine, intensifying their confrontation with capitalist russia. it openly supports the reactionary government of ukraine, its murderous military operations in eastern ukraine, with hundreds of civilian victims, and the anti-people policy jointly implemented by the ukrainian government, the imf and the eu. the european parliament, by its resolutions, has supported and is politically supporting the reactionary and fascist organizations, the persecutions they have launched together with the government against the communists and the communist party of ukraine. the eu is planning to deploy its military police force in ukraine to consolidate its position, to ensure the penetration and strengthening of eu monopoly groups, to control the large energy reserves of the region and their transport routes, to gain positions in new markets. the ukrainian people are paying dearly with their blood for the imperialist confrontations, the interests of the monopolies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted against the resolution because it adopts essentially the same neoliberal view of the dominant eu policies that have led to the surge in unemployment, the intensification of inequalities and the deepening of the crisis. only the overthrow of austerity policies and the adoption of development policies, with an emphasis on the protection of the most vulnerable social groups and young people, can provide a way out of the crisis.
in writing. regarding my vote on the resolution on youth employment, i would like to stress the following: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition, there are several provisions whose content is unclear, such as paragraphs 2, 4, 42. the continuous appeal to entrepreneurship is also seen as a panacea for tackling unemployment, which is not a feasible and realistic response to the high rates of youth unemployment.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the resolution on youth employment. youth unemployment rates in the eu are at unprecedented levels. the eu and the member states should agree together on a comprehensive approach to combating youth unemployment. the statistics of recent years are more than disappointing. the figures speak for themselves, as 25% of young people of working age, or 5.5 million young people, are unemployed in europe, whereas in my country, greece, the figure is 60%. in greece, young people are migrating in search of work and livelihood - a phenomenon also observed in the countries of the south which are in economic crisis. we can't afford to be idle. we need responsible and targeted policies that deliver tangible results: - by speeding up the implementation of the youth employment initiative so that eligible member states receive the funds as soon as possible, - by creating sustainable and high-quality jobs, and - by developing an action plan on youth employment and labour market choice and decent income. in an ageing europe, our young people are the literature of europe. so let's get them off the sidelines!
in writing. the kke votes against the joint resolution and at the same time rejects all the draft resolutions tabled in the plenary on youth employment because, despite their individual differences, they are identical in their strategy, accept the anti-people eu strategy europe 2020, put forward as the cause of the situation one or the other mix of management of the capitalist development path, each of them declaring its support for it. they support the subsidization of employers, beyond hot money, with tax breaks and contributions, with free work, subsidizing their profitability in the name of competitiveness. their aim is to drastically reduce the price of labour as a means of overcoming the crisis in favour of capital and at the expense of the working class and the young. in other words, any capitalist recovery will be based on the demolition of all the workers' conquests. this policy has not only failed to tackle youth unemployment, but has worsened their situation, reduced the general level of wages, generalised flexible forms of employment and further exacerbated the exploitation of workers and young people.
in writing. the unacceptable resolution of the coalition of monopolies - epp, social democrats, liberals - together with the conservative-reformists and the greens on iraq, provocatively presents as alleged defenders of the rights of the iraqi people, as mediators for their salvation, the forces that have been responsible for years for their overthrow, forces such as the united states which continue to maintain police-military occupation forces in iraq, the eu which has supported the imperialist intervention in the country from the very beginning, with its member states actively participating in the occupation forces, as well as other regional forces that take part in the imperialist competition for the control of resources and energy transportation. the resolution supports the al maliki government as a factor that can confront the islamists, when it has enormous responsibilities because by supporting the us occupation and its anti-people policy it strengthens the islamist lines.
in writing. i voted against the resolution because it misrepresents the causes of the recent crisis and undermines the palestinian people's rights to full democratic self-determination, as recognised by international law.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament condemns the unacceptable joint resolution of the political coalition of capital in the european parliament (people's party, social democrats, liberals, conservatives and reformists) which puts the palestinian people and their just struggle in the position of the accused. the pretext of the security of the israeli state justifies the barbaric murderous attacks of the israeli occupation forces, it exonerates the israeli state of the heinous war crimes against palestinian civilians, children, women and the elderly. the joint resolution does not contain a single word condemning the israeli attack, the killing of hundreds of palestinians, including babies, while calling the massacre of civilians by israel's war machine in gaza simply 'a crisis'. by keeping equal distances and equating the criminals with their victims, it effectively supports murderous israeli attacks, discourages and encourages israeli aggression for the first time ever, the european parliament is taking the lead in the eu-us-nato imperialist plans for the 'new middle east', to safeguard the interests of the monopoly companies they represent, to ensure the plundering of the rich resources and the exploitation of the peoples of the region. the kke, the workers' and people's movement in greece, demands that israel stop its bombing and massacre of the palestinian people on the ground.
in writing. the struggle of each people against the conqueror for its freedom and independence is the most sacred and non-negotiable. it is the duty and obligation of all free men, and to the maximum extent that we owe our freedom and independence today to the struggles and sacrifices of our forefathers, to support in every way and by all means the struggle for freedom and independence of the peoples. i refuse to give the slightest reprieve to any conqueror. i refuse to minimize my unwavering support for those who fight for the freedom of their country. i refuse to sign a resolution that labels every palestinian fighting for freedom a terrorist and baptizes the israeli occupier as a defender, pardoning him for all his heinous crimes.
madam president, in a european union where many member states are suffering from the economic crisis, the imposition of an embargo by russia, mainly on agricultural products but also on other products, is the tip of the iceberg. as greek citizens, we are concerned and we are following developments concerning the embargo on products from my country, which is having a direct and negative impact on our national economy at a difficult time like today. the effects and consequences of the russian blockade are chain-like. the surplus food will remain untapped, with the risk of crushing product prices. already humiliatingly low prices will be further reduced and the effects of speculation will be immediate and visible. it is unacceptable that we should target problem economies such as greece and pay the price of the russian-ukrainian crisis. the great political and business interests have started this crisis in our stead, always in the name of democracy and freedom, and we are now discussing solutions to repair the damage to cancer-stricken economies like my country's. third countries which are candidates for accession to the european union, and even nato members, which participate à la carte in european politics, benefit from the costs borne by the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a new policy, a strategic approach between the european union and russia, we need to strengthen our partnership and trade relations. the events call for a review and a change in the policy being pursued. the continuation of the conflict with russia will bring more suffering and problems than benefits to the member states of the union.
we believe that sanctions were necessary to curb russian aggression, without forgetting the responsibilities of the european union and the united states of america in the maidan uprising. but wasn't russia's response expected? it was! the commission should have immediately had a plan in place to promote at least the vulnerable products in new markets, to promote them in the secondary sector or in schools, hospitals? where are the new upgraded instruments provided for in the just adopted common agricultural policy? why is the use of the crisis fund delayed, since the appropriations are there? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. the economies of the south will not survive such a crisis without help. farmers are seeing their crops rot, and they will continue to see them rot because the crisis will last for over a year. the transfers, which no one has mentioned, are not only losing a percentage of their profits, but are in danger of being completely wiped out. finally, i would like to point out to the commissioner that if compensation is delayed by one year, there may be no farmers left to receive it and that time seems to pass differently for the commission and differently for farmers.
i would like to ask you, commissioner, whether the european union authorities, when they took these measures, were aware or not - had they foreseen or not - that there would be retaliation from russia? and how did they anticipate reacting to russia's countermeasures? secondly, did they or did they not know that these measures are mainly aimed at and affect the agricultural economy, that is to say the primary sector? did they or did they not know that the measures particularly affect greek producers who are fruit growers? fruit trees are not like broccoli and cabbage. it's not easy to destroy the tree and replace it with cabbage and broccoli. this is of enormous significance. i would also like to ask what funds are available and how much is being allocated to the crisis management fund. and most importantly, in this "coup de main" between russia and the european union, that is to say in the context of the atlantic alliance, who pays for the transport of nato troops to ukraine?
madam president, i would also be happy if the clock had stopped so that i could speak further. the commission has not been able to convince us with the answers you have given and you have probably created more anxiety among farmers in the european south. the damage they've suffered is immense! the sums you have provided, the 125 million euros, are small, but even that has not been given. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. i have therefore asked you to answer this question since the beginning of august. we have tabled a joint declaration, myself and my colleagues from five star, on what measures must be taken to deal with the problem, to save our farmers. you have to have a realistic policy. the south is becoming poorer and it is not possible for our farmers to suffer the consequences of an irrational cold war policy between the european union and russia as collateral damage.
madam president, you had quick reflexes when you took action last august. but the crisis did not begin with the embargo on russia. the crisis began with the war in ukraine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. every country has its own history. for example, for greece the effects are concentrated in the fruit and vegetable sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market in the steel sector is not affected by the crisis. they need to travel 1,500 kilometers to get through belarus. so costs rise and product prices are squeezed. for example, peaches, which have been hit harder than any other product in our country, have seen their prices fall from 70 or 80 cents to 15 or 20 cents. the damage that follows will affect other products: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the introduction of new measures. we ask that you activate all the funds provided for in the eu regulations to support producers throughout europe, and particularly in southern europe.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, europe’s southern neighbourhood has gone through unprecedented change since 2011 and, in this context, trade and investment must play a role as a factor of stability: a factor of stability in your relations with the southern mediterranean region. we are currently focusing on three trade objectives vis-à-vis the southern mediterranean region. the first one is the deepening of eu trade relations with some of these partners on the basis of a differentiated approach. in december 2011 the council adopted negotiating directives for deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas) with egypt, jordan, morocco and tunisia. the main objective of these agreements will be the progressive integration of the economies of these partners into the eu single market. these agreements will be comprehensive and will cover regulatory areas of mutual interest such as trade facilitation, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, public procurement and competition policy. they will also include investment protection and further liberalisation of goods, services and establishments, as appropriate. negotiations on a dcfta were launched with morocco in march 2013 and are progressing apace. the preparatory process for the negotiations with jordan and tunisia is very advanced, and negotiations could be launched as soon as the preparatory process is completed. the immediate priority for countries where a dcfta is not immediately possible – such as libya, lebanon or algeria – is their accession to the world trade organisation, and contacts continue in this respect. we also need to define the most appropriate trade framework for our relations with libya in due course. the second focus is support for south-south regional integration. the level of intra-regional trade in the southern mediterranean is still lower than anywhere else in the world. an integrated mediterranean market will be much more attractive to investors. we continue to support efforts to reinforce the agadir agreement between egypt, jordan, morocco and tunisia and to extend it to other regulatory areas: to trade and services, investments or public procurement. this also includes providing financial assistance and expertise. the ongoing revision of pan-euromed rules of origin should be accelerated. this is not an easy task, given the diverging views of the partners participating in this process. the third key element is the regional euro-mediterranean trade partnership, which will be revitalised at the upcoming 10th union for the mediterranean trade ministerial meeting on 30 september. this is an important meeting, since it will be the first in four years. the commission is doing its utmost to keep the trade relationship with the eu’s mediterranean neighbours up to date and to sustain long-term peace and stability in the region. we count on parliament’s continued dedication to this shared goal.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the european union's economic relations with the mediterranean countries must be based on the principles of mutual benefit and not be double-edged. the creation of a free euro-mediterranean economic area must not create problems for countries which are facing economic problems, such as the countries of the south, countries affected by merkel's austerity, by the memoranda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the mediterranean. this is the case with turkey, which has invaded cyprus and occupied a large part of the island, but does not recognise the republic of cyprus, and yet demands that its products circulate freely and without obstacles in the european union. we must also, mr president, deal with the question of illegal immigration flows. )
mr president, the decisions of the recent nato summit in wales are directed against the peoples because they intensify the aggression of the imperialist alliance and increase the risks of a generalized imperialist war which the peoples will pay dearly with their blood. the military exercises of nato, the united states and the european union on ukrainian territory are already proving this, escalating the confrontation with capitalist russia over the sharing of markets, energy resources and territories. today's conference in paris on coordinating the military action of the euro-asian powers against the so-called jihadists whom they themselves armed, is giving impetus to plans to redraw the borders and generalize the confrontation to the wider region. it is a strategic choice of the european union or even greater integration with nato. the greek government has a huge responsibility because it is involved in all the offensive plans of the european union and nato. the communist party of greece demands that all participation of the greek armed forces in the missions of the european union and nato be stopped immediately and is fighting for the country's disengagement from both the european union and nato for popular power and sovereignty .... )
mr president, a large part of greece's public debt is held by the european central bank, which during the crisis bought greek government bonds on the secondary market at a discount of at least 40%. the ecb has thus paid eur 35 billion, but is still demanding the nominal value of these bonds, which is eur 53 billion. that's a profit of 22 billion euros. in this way mr draghi and his gang, by selling 'aircraft', are profiting unrestrainedly and uncompromisingly at the expense of the impoverished greek people. for this year alone, the greek people will pay a "hat" to the ecb of 4 billion euros and, for this reason, the memorandum government in athens has imposed with enfia unbearable taxes on the real estate of the greeks. the role of the ecb is not to speculate at the expense of the citizens of the european union. it is therefore both legal and ethical to 'purchase' these ecb bonds and to have greece pay only the principal paid by the ecb to buy these bonds, plus an interest rate of 0.15%.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i have just come back from two visits to kiev, where i followed the trial for the ban on the communist party of ukraine. this was a show trial clearly reflecting the rise in political influence of neo-fascist elements. i have witnessed with my own eyes the failure of eu policies in the area. ukraine is a deeply divided country with a very weak civil society and political parties which are little more than a façade for the business projects of oligarchs. we have been engaged in a bras de fer and a trade war with russia, which is poisoning ukraine’s internal political life and, at the same time, harming european farmers and the european economy. instead of a policy of dividing, we should opt for one of reconciliation, giving the ukrainian people a chance to avoid a civil war and to decide freely on their future, with full recognition of fundamental human rights and respect for european values. there is still time for peace and democracy in ukraine.
mr president, despite the fact that ukraine has not yet implemented the necessary reforms in its legislation, has entered into an agreement on the production of genetically modified products and is not ready to join the european union in general, there is an attempt to speed up the accession procedures. the european union is also ready to announce new tough measures against russia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and that the european union's financial interests are protected. these measures will also have a major impact on the greek economy, which has already been destroyed by the austerity measures imposed on it, and the greek people are suffering, among other things, from the unbearable taxation imposed on them by the greek government. the peoples of europe must not become scapegoats for a policy which does not really serve their interests but which serves the interests of international economic actors who seek to manipulate the international economy in order to achieve political influence. the solution to the problem in ukraine is not the confrontation of the european union with russia but the conduct of honest negotiations from which agreements will be reached that will be beneficial for all parties involved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, given that the peace process has begun in the region and that tension is easing, and given that imports from ukraine amount to eur 14 billion and european exports to it to eur 24 billion, it is clear that the trade agreement with ukraine is imperative and that it should remain high on the european trade agenda. i would like to know, however, to what extent the consequences of any new sanctions have been calculated and weighed, given that, in addition to agricultural products, tourism has also been affected and, at the same time, europe's energy security is at stake. i would therefore like to know more about whether this is the right move at the moment and what we should expect in the future.
in writing. - i voted against the eu-ukraine association agreement because i think it is being done ahead of schedule. ukraine is not yet ready to join the eu as it does not meet the criteria set out in the copenhagen accord. the agreement, in conjunction with ukraine's acquisition of nuclear energy capacity and the new measures announced by the eu against russia, is also contrary to the interests of russia, which is expected to respond with new countermeasures. this development will have a direct and significant impact on the economies of the eu member states and, in particular, on the devastated greek economy.
in writing. ukraine has no clear position on the issue of gmos (genetically modified products) as it receives subsidies on the terms of the imf and the world bank, which go to large agricultural enterprises that will lead to the opening of the country to genetically modified crops. we are voting against the trade and partnership links between the eu and ukraine for the above reasons, because of the risks involved. as regards energy, it is not possible, for the sake of political interests, to accept a shift towards dangerous forms of energy (nuclear energy) but towards alternative energy sources and green development.
in writing. i am voting against the agreement because the european union must break off all relations with ukraine and turn to the russian market. i also do not want ukraine to pursue nuclear programmes.
in writing. - i voted against the part of the eu-ukraine association agreement which refers to the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed as workers in the territory of the other party because, in my opinion, the possibility of free movement of third-country nationals in eu countries will contribute to the loss of jobs by european nationals. the already very high unemployment rate in countries, especially in the european south, combined with the above developments, will have a direct and significant impact on the economies of the eu member states and in particular on the greek economy, given that the unemployment rate in my country is around 30% and youth unemployment is around 60%.
in writing. i am voting against the european union's association agreement with ukraine: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of immigration, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. the kke opposes the eu-ukraine association and free trade agreement, which is being promoted economically, politically and by force of arms, because it serves the penetration of eu monopolies into new markets, their connection with sections of the ukrainian plutocracy whose interests are better served by their association with the eu. the agreement imposes heavy commitments to promote capitalist restructuring that further brings the ukrainian people to their knees, intensifying the exploitation of workers, while reforms in ukraine's bourgeois political system ensure the unhindered profitability and dominance of monopoly groups. the celebrations of the eu, its allies, the us-nato and the reactionary ukrainian government over the approval of the association agreement cannot hide the fact that it will only further worsen the already dramatic situation of the ukrainian people. in contrast to the slaughter, poverty and oppression they experience today, in the years of socialist construction the ukrainian and other peoples of the soviet union lived together in peace and prosperity. this proves the incomparable superiority of socialism, it shows that the interest of the peoples is in conflict with the imperialist associations of capital, in conflict with the capitalist path of development and the power of the monopolies.
in writing. - i am voting against because the european union must cut off all ties with ukraine and turn to the russian market. i also do not want ukraine to pursue nuclear programmes.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's information society. the european union is lagging dramatically behind in this area, and it is lagging behind the funds invested by the united states and japan. and that's not by chance. this is because the economic model of the european union is based on the euro pact. it is therefore based on the 'chineseisation' of wages to make the old continent more competitive. but the european union cannot rely on low wages to be competitive, since it cannot compete with the low wages of china and india. it must instead invest in the knowledge economy, education and training. but this is in contradiction with mrs merkel's doctrine of primary surpluses and the consequent reduction in public spending on education, innovation and new technologies. the european union must therefore abandon its outdated economic model and increase public spending as the united states of america is doing. the european central bank must cut money as the us federal reserve does and the european union must base its competitiveness on the knowledge economy and digital technology.
mr president, in the late 1980s and early 1990s, we europeans were certainly the pioneers. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the telecommunications services provided by the community. unfortunately, today in the digital single market, we risk missing the train. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not fragmented into 28 separate markets. while products in the united states are addressed to 300 million consumers, products and services in the european union could be addressed to 500 million potential consumers. but we have not yet completed the institutional framework to exploit this comparative advantage. mr president, i have said it before in this house, politicians are not in a position to create jobs. this is the role of enterprises and entrepreneurs who take risks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say this because in greece, because of the crisis, we have 178 000 overqualified unemployed young people. we have hundreds of thousands of unemployed people under 25. and at the same time, despite the crisis, we are seeing not only in greece but across europe, that those jobs that require digital literacy are flourishing and that is the very great need. so much so that by 2020, we estimate that europe will be short of almost one million digital jobs. the evidence you have presented to us, commissioner, has been very interesting because it shows the work you have done. but you have shown us that we must hurry. we must speed up the adjustment of operations, speed up the removal of obstacles. we often say that the european union must be present on the big issues. what is happening with the digital single market is very big, because it covers hundreds of potential jobs that we urgently need. so let's run, let's translate the institutional framework into 500 billion euros of growth for the next 5 years. we have an obligation to people who are looking for work.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the problem of overpricing medicines by pharmaceutical companies, which aim to make extra profits at the expense of the health of citizens and at the expense of insurance funds, is real. but it is not the only barrier to accessing the necessary medication. in fact, the competent institutions of the european union not only ignore overpricing, but also consciously promote policies of restrictions on public health spending that make it even more difficult for patients to access medicines. the worst situation is found in the countries under the memorandum of understanding, where the troika pursues policies of violent impoverishment, with the result that patients are unable to pay their share of the cost of medicines and mortality is rising. in greece, the deaths rose from 108 000 in 2009 to 117 000 in 2012, as a result of this criminal policy of the troika. the european commission ... the president interrupts the speaker. )
commissioner, i understand that you have put us in a deadlock on the regulation of the prices of patents on medicines and i will try to find ways of facilitating other solutions, as the trips agreement allows, in the case of medicines, the licensing of generics. so, where human rights take precedence over intellectual property rights - and i wonder why germany and italy have been activated in some cases - why is it that the real cost of research carried out by multinational companies is not at least monitored with mandatory transparency and then, in cases of ill-gotten gain, patents for medicines expire in less than 20 years, or their prices are rationalised? the european union could refuse, in consultation of course with the member states through their public health systems, to receive and buy these medicines at outrageously high prices. it could therefore, in cases of obscene gain or in cases where there is a great need for the health of people, be granted a general licence.
mr president, in recent years there have been significant shortages of medicines in greece. it has been driven by an explosive mix of factors directly linked to the economic crisis and the cruel and irrational memoranda that have been imposed on the country. as part of the rationalisation of pharmaceutical expenditure, prices of medicines have fallen significantly. but they also produced significant side effects. several pharmaceutical companies have reduced or even stopped importing. parallel exports of medicines to european union countries where prices are higher forced the national agency for medicines to prohibit a number of products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the necessary measures. when the health of our fellow citizens is threatened, there can be no delay. the president interrupts the speaker. )
mr president, i would like to point out to my colleagues that, beyond what is happening in the house, there is a pressing question that is addressed to parliament and to all the citizens of europe. what kind of europe do we want? we are not talking about a europe of the people or a europe of monopolies and capital. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the future. we want a europe of equal members, we want a europe that is autonomous, independent, self-governing and not subordinate to the united states of america, either commercially or militarily through nato. i would like to emphasize that in my home country of greece there are nato military bases ... )
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why is there no growth in the european union? why there are millions of unemployed. and you have to wonder if the model that the european union used to get out of the economic crisis was the right one. and it wasn't right, because the model you used, which was austerity and deflation, had negative results: europe is full of unemployed. secondly, the model of competitiveness that you are promoting is a model based on the euro pact. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations on the gatt agreement. the opposite must be done! we need to invest! we must invest in technology, in the economy and, above all, in education. but you cannot do that, because when you have a tough fiscal policy, that is basically prohibited. and you create huge problems, especially in the southern countries, like greece, where your policy is destructive: 1.5 million unemployed, thousands of impoverished greeks, thousands of closed shops, and all this is the result of your policy, the policy of the troika which has destroyed the greek economy. we must therefore draw the necessary conclusions and change our policy, because as long as this situation continues we cannot really have a serious future. this is the reality, and you and the troika must take responsibility for your destructive policies in greece and the other countries of the memorandum. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue card". mr president, the group's proposal has been analysed by mr lucke and others. the basic idea is that with this austerity policy currently being pursued by the european central bank and the european union, there can be no way out: we cannot have a europe that is full of unemployed people, we cannot have a europe in which banks are speculating, we cannot have a europe where liquidity is not going into the real economy, we cannot have a europe that is oppressing the people of the south, a europe that has now dismantled the whole economy in the south and is full of unemployed people. we need a different europe, a europe of nation states, which can really provide a way out of this situation, and not a europe of central governments, a europe which oppresses its own peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, you have come empty-handed! mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the italian presidency, where is the turn to growth and change that mr renzi promised us here in june? mr katainen, where is the 300 billion euro programme of private and public investment that mr juncker told us about? you have not been able to tell us when the summit on growth will take place, and at the same time mrs merkel's economic orthodoxy is being questioned even by her own people. mr draghi is taking quantitative easing measures, timidly and belatedly, despite the obstacles put in his way by mr schäuble. even the oecd of mr guria, the neo-liberal, is telling you to stop this destructive policy, to take measures of quantitative easing and to turn to growth. france unilaterally announces that after two years it will comply with the requirements of the stability pact and you are telling us unbearably boring generalities, at a time when there is very high unemployment, 30% in my country, 60% unemployment among young people in greece, and at a time when the eurozone is facing a new recession and the risk of deflation. we expect answers from you, not generalities. the european parliament is not to be belittled or mocked.
mr president, i think that reforms are necessary because without reforms the european union will be economically defeated by the united states, china and other powerful competitors. i also believe that fiscal austerity is necessary, because otherwise we will fall into a black hole of debt, and we in greece are now paying, not so much for the difficult policy of the memorandum, as for the mistakes we made in the previous decade 2000-2009, when instead of preparing for additional competition within the framework of the emu - as, for example, our german friends had in the "agenda 2010" - we made provisions and we missed the budgetary management. but it takes an extra effort, a creative thought, to fill in the body of the policy that is basically right. we must first of all be clear about what we want. how strong do we want the euro to be? do we want inflation close to 0% or inflation close to 2%? do we want liquidity, do we want quantitative easing or do we want monetary orthodoxy? i think we can do it, but we have to try, there's no automation that's going to solve the problem. finally, i would like to protest against certain eurosceptics, especially the germans, who are criticizing greece and calling for the south to be abandoned. do they not understand that if we fall into a black hole of debt we will drag in the german taxpayers, whom they are supposed to represent?
mr president, i would remind you that i have asked your bureau to intervene on a serious procedural matter and i am waiting to be heard in the course of the procedure. i'm going back to the subject of this conversation: shortly before the euro summit, the european union's expectations, even if they were for anaemic growth, were transformed into fears of a new round of deeper capitalist crisis. the concerns of all the parties that bow to the european union and capitalist development for some easing of fiscal policy with an expansionary strategy do not negate the statement of one of its rapporteurs, the president of the european central bank, mr draghi, who said that easing would not affect the iron budgetary discipline, the lasting memoranda of the european union. reducing interest rates, buying bonds, government subsidies and tax breaks on capital, will not tackle unemployment, will not benefit workers but only capital gains. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. the petty measures against extreme poverty, which are eradicated by savage anti-people taxation, not only do not provide a solution but, in effect, push the general level of wages and pensions down to a general poverty line by abolishing collective labour agreements. youth employment programmes generalise temporary, flexible employment without entitlements. no measure can save this rotten system that only gives unemployment, poverty and wars. the only guarantee for the workers to meet their real needs for development in their favour is the overthrow of this system and its policy.
madam president, during the procedure a colleague was allowed to speak on behalf of the non-attached members. the rules of procedure of parliament clearly state that non-attached members are not a political group. in no case do they have a single political voice, so no one can represent the unregistered members. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it would therefore be appropriate to indicate that when a non-attached member is given the floor, it is this or that non-attached member who is given the floor.
mr president, i wonder if there is any point in discussing the progress of the implementation of the youth employment initiative. we all know that this initiative is a drop in the bucket. the european parliament is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the programmes are announced by the european council, the commission and then the governments of the individual member states. what result? in most european countries, youth unemployment is rising steadily. in greece, a whole generation is being lost to lies. we have at least 700,000 unemployed people up to the age of 29. and what does that equal? 220 euros each and that's just once. we will not be complicit in this deception. and the new leadership of the commission knows that this is hypocrisy. mr juncker said that the 6 billion euro for youth would be increased to 300 billion euro. so let mr juncker bring the youth plan and the money and let us discuss how we can create real jobs and proper training. the only guarantee for young people that the commission is currently giving through the troika in greece is occasional jobs with wages of up to 480 euros for a few months. it is a shame to claim that this is pro-youth policy.
madam president, this debate is indeed a continuation of the previous one, because the problem of the enormous unemployment in the european union is directly related to the model used to get us out of the crisis. a model based on deflation, on austerity, a model based on reducing labour costs, but which did not give the european economy competitiveness. at the same time, it relied on bank bailouts. more than 1.5 trillion euros of the european union was given to support the banks themselves, to rescue the bankers, to socialise the losses. how much are we giving out now for unemployment support? the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the banks. look what happened in greece: the country has borrowed 214 billion euros and yet it has 1.5 million unemployed. that policy has failed!
madam president, the european union has given billions of euros to the fund for growth and employment. however, unemployment has skyrocketed. just yesterday, a delegation of 500 dismissed cleaners in greece visited the european parliament to raise their issue. for a year now, the workers of coca-cola in greece have been on strike because they have closed all the factories and, at the same time, the troika and the greek government are calling for the release of the mass layoffs. how does all this go together with what the commission is supposedly saying about employment? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal because it is proposed that the funds be given to training and retraining companies for the unemployed and not directly to those who have lost their jobs and need them. the majority of the appropriations will therefore go to entrepreneurs who have not suffered the consequences of the economic crisis.
in writing. i am voting against the report because two thirds of the disbursement of the fund, which covers the commission's technical assistance, will go to companies and institutes whose usefulness has so far not been as expected in the main problem, namely the creation of new jobs specifically for young people, but remains at theoretical levels. i think that some people are benefiting financially at the expense of european taxpayers.
in writing. - i am voting against because the bulk of the funds will go to technical assistance companies, to commission departments which are supposedly aimed at increasing youth employment, rather than to youth employment programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, despite the fact that the money is proposed to be allocated to training and retraining companies for the unemployed and not directly to those who have lost their jobs and need it, because this limited money will be given to greek companies even if the majority of the appropriations go to entrepreneurs who have not suffered the consequences of the economic crisis.
in writing. - we support the report on the grounds that it concerns greek workers although we disagree with the way the funding is managed. the beneficiaries will be companies which offer theories of solutions which have not reduced the unemployment rate in the areas concerned in the slightest. the amount of eur 6 096 000 should be used to create new jobs and not just to train people in skills they will never be able to apply when they are out of work.
in writing. - i support the issue of greek unemployed women, arguing that the funds should be given to employment programmes for the unemployed and/or dismissed and not to some companies that will be paid to train them. in greece we have a problem of unemployment and not a lack of knowledge, skills and qualifications among the unemployed.
in writing. funds from the so-called "globalization fund" to finance programs for displaced workers, who are driven into unemployment by monopolies to invest in other countries and industries with cheaper labor for greater profitability, as in the case of the nutriart group's layoffs, are promoted as an alleged response to unemployment. in fact, however, they are neither able nor prepared to tackle the enormous problems of unemployment and the unemployed. it is very small, completely inadequate to meet the needs of the unemployed and it is disappearing with the end of the programmes and the overall anti-people policy. the real aim of the fund is to manage extreme poverty with crumbs, to contain the indignation of the workers, to cover up and embellish the capitalist barbarity, the anti-people policy of the eu and the bourgeois governments that serve the profits of the monopolies by all means. the programmes it funds recycle unemployment, reinforce various pseudo-training mechanisms to hoard funds. the only way to eliminate unemployment - inherent in the capitalist system - and to ensure permanent and stable work with rights for all and with wages that meet the modern needs of the people, is to organize the struggle to overthrow the anti-people policy, the disengagement from the eu and the people's power.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal because it is proposed that the funds be given to training and retraining companies for the unemployed and not directly to those who have lost their jobs and need them. the majority of the appropriations will therefore go to entrepreneurs who have not suffered the consequences of the economic crisis.
in writing. - we disagree about the way the funding is being handled. the beneficiaries will be companies which offer theories of solutions which have not reduced the unemployment rate in the areas concerned in the slightest. the amount of eur 3 571 150 should be used to create new jobs and not just to train people in skills they will never be able to apply when they are out of work.
in writing. - i am voting against on the grounds that the funds should be given for the creation of new jobs, not for training in areas where unemployment is already high.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal because it is proposed that the funds be given to training and retraining companies for the unemployed and not directly to those who have lost their jobs and need them. the majority of the appropriations will therefore go to entrepreneurs who have not suffered the consequences of the economic crisis.
in writing. - we disagree about the way the funding is being handled. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed in the regions concerned, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take action to help them. the €960,000 should be used to create new jobs and not just to train people in skills they will never be able to apply when they are out of work.
in writing. - i am voting against because i am against the allocation of funds when they do not involve the creation of new jobs.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal because it is proposed that the funds be given to training and retraining companies for the unemployed and not directly to those who have lost their jobs and need them. the majority of the appropriations will therefore go to entrepreneurs who have not suffered the consequences of the economic crisis.
in writing. - we disagree about the way the funding is being handled. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed in the regions concerned, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take action to help them. the amount of €1,625,781 should be used to create new jobs and not just to train people in skills they will never be able to apply when they are out of work.
in writing. - i am voting against because i am opposed to the return of money except in cases of job creation.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal because it is proposed that the funds be given to training and retraining companies for the unemployed and not directly to those who have lost their jobs and need them. the majority of the appropriations will therefore go to entrepreneurs who have not suffered the consequences of the economic crisis.
in writing. - we disagree about the way the funding is being handled. the beneficiaries will be companies which have theoretically proposed solutions which have not reduced the unemployment rate in the regions concerned in the slightest. the €700,000 should be used to create new jobs and not just to train people in skills they will never be able to apply when they are out of work.
in writing. - i am voting against because i am opposed to the return of money except in cases of job creation.
madam president, the results of the interventions of the european union, the united states of america and nato, which have been taking place for years in iraq, libya and syria, are well known, and they have left behind hundreds of dead, wounded and refugees drowning in the mediterranean, as well as ethnic and religious divisions. at the same time, monopolies are hoarding. these forces and their allies, saudi arabia and qatar, who recruited, funded and empowered thousands of so-called jihadists, today, as self-proclaimed saviors, call in willing troops, ostensibly to counter them. they use these pretences to control the sources and pathways of energy. the people of iraq and the peoples of the region to scrap their plans and, through their struggle for independence, not to ally with any part of the bourgeoisie, to become the owners of the wealth they produce.
question of the day: blue card. no one talked about the cause of it. we all forget the military intervention of the united states, nato and, unfortunately, also the european union. and you continue to call for armed intervention against oppressed peoples who are deprived of their rights as peoples, and you continue to call for the strangulation of human rights and minorities.
mr president, was the cause not the regime, which is really opposed and anti-people, but the libyan oil? let us not forget that and let us not be ostriches. that's the truth. the libyan oil, who's exploiting it today?
question of the day: blue card. i would like to ask the honourable member whether he is aware that the terrorist organization, as he says, hamas, is the legitimately elected government of the people of palestine, of gaza. should we respect or not respect the choices of a people?
mr president, the ceasefire will not stop the aggression of israel and its allies against the palestinians. those who bombed, those who supported the bombings and who in an unacceptable way equate the israeli aggressor with the palestinian people, including the european union, must apologize for the new shipwreck off malta with most of the victims being refugees from gaza. the same forces are now proposing to rebuild the rubble left by the israeli army in gaza. we condemn the new israeli settlements and the improved political, economic and military relations between the greek government and the european union and israel. the peoples of the region need to be vigilant and strengthen the struggle for solidarity in the struggle of the palestinian people for an independent palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital, for the immediate withdrawal of the israeli army and settlers from the occupied palestinian territories.
mr president, israel's latest crime has forced the international community to cry out for the only viable solution, namely: an independent palestinian state within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital, and the repatriation of refugees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no mention of settlements, refugees, occupation or resistance. but also a distortion of reality. there are no two sides to this conflict, there is a conqueror and a resistor. there is no operation "protective ends", but a military purge of the occupying army. there is no hostility in gaza, there is a brutal apartheid. let's at least protect the truth. the only way to protect the israeli people from the legitimization of their government's crimes. ladies and gentlemen, the german people's atonement for the crimes of the nazis came when they looked squarely into the dark pages of their history. we must not allow history to commemorate israel's atrocities with terms and words that encourage their repetition. the serpent's egg is already among us.
the european union does not miss the opportunity to play the sensitive role in matters of democratic freedoms and so-called human rights. the commission has in no way been empowered by the people to intervene in the world and express these 'concerns' which are increasingly dictated by the interests of the monopolies it serves. its deliberately selective sensitivity obviously does not apply in the case of mexico where, in the last year alone, seven members and officers of the communist party of mexico, as well as many trade unionists and other activists, have been murdered by gangs and machinations in collusion with elements of the local bourgeoisie. this action is a nuisance to the mining monopolies that are displacing poor farmers from their land. the federal government of mexico, as well as the state governments, have declared that they will not tolerate the use of force against the civilian population of mexico, and that they will not tolerate the use of force against civilians in the territory of mexico. the european union is a member of the united nations, the world economic forum, the world bank, the world bank group, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank group, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the united nations, the united nations, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the world bank, the whole is in the hands of the one.
i haven't even started talking yet, and the timer's ticking. the right to water itself, as the ancient greeks called it, the right to speak, i claim. i haven't even started my speech yet! why is the timer starting and counting? dear president, i have not yet begun to speak and the clock is ticking. i am very much against this because you are stealing my speaking time, you are strangling my right to express myself. (the president objected and did not exercise his right to speak for one minute in the chamber)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing and voting today on the human rights violations in bangladesh. it is not disputed that, despite all the progress in the development of the country, human rights are being flagrantly violated by the security forces. the disappearance of persons, death sentences by a partial judiciary, persecutions and intimidation are contrary to the principles of democracy and the rule of law. the leader of the third largest political party was arrested without waiver of immunity and has been in prison for a year now along with six other members of his party. his wife, also a member of parliament, is allowed to visit her husband only once a month. three other mps are under house arrest, two mps are banned from speaking at political gatherings, and all have been placed under restrictive conditions. the government and some sworn jurors set up a conspiracy based on the criminal act of a person who simply stated he was a party member. the party's funding was cut off in a completely undemocratic way, and it was subsequently branded as a criminal organisation without even having been tried. but, ladies and gentlemen, what i have described to you is unfortunately not happening in bangladesh but in europe, in my country greece, and in my party, the golden dawn people's association. for reasons of political expediency and to avoid their imminent electoral crash, the samaras-venizelos coalition government, completely against the rule of law, has jailed, strangled financially, silenced and bombarded with false accusations a political party that simply believes that the greeks deserve better than what the other political parties that governed in the past have done. what is the european parliament's position on these human rights violations?
in writing. i am voting against because the eu was the first to make the greatest contribution to the worsening of the crisis in ukraine, because the eu blames russia for the downing of the malaysian airlines plane without any finding being made public as to the real causes of the tragedy, and also because the eu did not show the same sensitivity to the territorial integrity of serbia on the kosovo issue and therefore we consider its stance hypocritical.
in writing. - i am voting against because the european union was the first to make the greatest possible contribution to the worsening of the crisis in ukraine, because the eu blames the russian federation for the crash of the malaysian airlines without any conclusion being reached on the real causes of the tragedy, and also because the eu did not show the same sensitivity to the territorial integrity of serbia on the issue of kosovo. so we consider the eu's position to be hypocritical.
in writing. - i am voting against because i consider the european union to be the main culprit in the russia-ukraine crisis, both in its attitude and in its anti-russian policy, and because in other cases it has not respected the sovereign rights of other countries (e.g. serbia and kosovo) as it is now rushing to demand the non-federalisation of ukraine.
in writing. we are voting against this plan because the fight against ebola in africa is not the responsibility of the eu but of the un and who and because we are opposed to the use of military means for the same purpose.
in writing. i am voting against the text on the global security issue caused by the ebola virus because i am opposed to the use of military means of defence under the leadership of the un secretary-general. the response to ebola is the exclusive responsibility of the un and who, not the eu.
in writing. - i am voting against because the response to the ebola epidemic is a responsibility of the un and who alone, and i am also opposed to the deployment of military forces under the auspices of the un secretary-general.
in writing. - we are voting against this particular plan because it welcomes us military intervention to fight the isis organization, whereas in the past us representatives have met with isis officials and armed them to overthrow the legally elected leader of syria. we believe that the united states is not the right force to bring peace to this region.
in writing. - i vote against because it strengthens u.s. military interventions to fight isis. in the past, there have been meetings with isis operatives and supplying weapons to overthrow the legally elected leader of syria. the united states is not the right power to eliminate the war in iraq and syria.
in writing. - we are voting against this draft because it welcomes a us military intervention to fight the isis organization, whereas in the past representatives of this country have had official meetings with the isis officials, arming them with the aim of overthrowing the legally elected leader of syria. we believe that the united states is not the appropriate force to impose peace in this region.
in writing. - we are voting against this proposal on the grounds that it is against frontex and calls for its abolition. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the request for eu funds to be used to finance the libyan migrants.
in writing. - we are opposed to this proposal because it is against frontex and calls for its abolition, while at the same time calling for the funding of migrants from libya with european union funds.
in writing. - i believe that the transformation of the palestinian state into an international protectorate in no way ensures peace, prosperity and, above all, the national independence of the palestinian nation. it is also not promoting reconciliation between palestinians but, on the contrary, fuelling civil strife. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. i believe that the transformation of the palestinian state into an international protectorate in no way ensures peace, prosperity and, above all, the national independence of the palestinian nation. it is also not promoting reconciliation between palestinians but, on the contrary, fuelling civil strife. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. all the resolutions on the situation in gaza and the role of the eu tabled by the political groups conceal the role of the eu in supporting, together with the usa and nato, israeli barbarity and encouraging israeli crimes by upgrading its relations with israel in various ways, the policy of equating the perpetrator with the victim. they are confusing the people, denying the eu the role of a factor which can contribute to the struggle of the palestinian people, when it is well known that it is opposed to them, and emphasizing the role and character of this imperialist alliance of capital, which is the enemy of the people. the joint resolution, which was passed, like the previous one, during the israeli criminal attack on the palestinians, puts the palestinian people in the position of the accused, blaming them for their resistance, justifying israeli atrocities and openly supporting israeli aggression. the kke stands firmly in solidarity with the palestinian people's struggle for the immediate end of the israeli occupation and the creation of an independent palestinian state, with east jerusalem as its capital, within the 1967 borders, which, in order to be victorious, needs to know its enemies, to be oriented against imperialism and the exploitative capitalist system.
in writing. - i shall vote against the motion for a resolution because the independence of the palestinian state and peace in the gaza strip are not linked to the creation of an international protectorate. the plan will result in increased tensions and civil strife.
in writing. i am voting against this draft because the regulation on trade between the eu and fiji should not be implemented until there is a legally elected government to be able to negotiate this agreement.
mr president, i have asked to speak on two subjects. the first concerns article 163 of the regulation on one-minute interventions. i have submitted a motion to speak on the subject of german war reparations, the forced occupation loan, compensation to relatives of victims executed during the german occupation in greece. my application was rejected because, the service claims, there is not enough time to develop my views. but, mr president, i see for the first time that the debate is not on monday, which has always included the one-minute debate on speeches, but has been fixed for thursday, when we have only two hours on this and many other issues. but if, mr president, the matter had been put to the vote today, monday, when the sitting ends at 7 a.m., we could have continued until 10 or 11 a.m. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, although i am a new member, i am aware that the request must be submitted by 4 o'clock. i have been on the phone since 11 a.m. to ask for your services and i have not found anyone to raise this matter with. i'm right here. the second point i would like to raise, mr president, is the urgency of the matter. it was proposed that the issue of turkish provocations in the cypriot eez be discussed as a matter of urgency. that was rejected by the bureau. but today, a turkish seismic vessel has entered the eez and is causing problems. i therefore ask the house, mr president, to decide to discuss this urgent matter, because it is crucial for the maintenance of peace, since it is in breach of international law.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the famous european union solidarity fund has completely failed in its role, particularly in the matter of compensation for the flood victims in greece. thus, those affected by the devastating floods of november 2013, in rhodes, kos, kalymnos and peserimos are still waiting to be compensated. the same applies to those affected by the devastating floods that hit attica in february 2013, when we mourned the death of a fellow citizen. but in addition to providing relief and repairing damage to homes and infrastructure, there should be a modern flood protection policy in all member states and the european union should finance the construction of flood protection schemes so that both urban and rural areas do not suffer irreparable damage. in particular, where the devastating effects of floods take on cross-border characteristics, such as the constant flooding of the evros river due to the lack of flood control projects in bulgaria, there should be cooperation between the commission services and greece and bulgaria to finance such projects. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from pollution.
mr president, exactly twenty years ago, the european union's environment directorate sent specific instructions to all the countries of europe to deal with floods, based on the projects which i myself implemented in naxos, so that there would be no floods where these projects are located. i ask the commissioner why these instructions which have already been sent are not being implemented? let us not stand helpless and helpless in the face of natural phenomena.
mr president, the deadly ebola virus has been ravaging africa for many years. and yet, as long as the virus was confined to africa, the civilized west remained defiantly indifferent. the european union and its member states have been indifferent when it came to investing resources in the ebola response. now the epidemic is on the doorstep of the european union, the united states and elsewhere. now the risks of possible mutation of the virus are increased. now the ebola victims are increasing at a geometrical rate. the european union has finally woken up. so urgent measures are needed. the 500 million euros that the european union has promised to release are not enough for the african countries that have been impoverished by exploitation. the voluntary organizations that are on the front lines of the battle in africa, where virtually all health structures have been destroyed, must be strengthened. the research needs to be intensified to find the vaccine for ebola. in the member states of the european union there must be decisive and urgent preparation at all levels, with emphasis on increasing hospital beds for medical care, and all this at a time when the memoranda have imposed drastic cuts in health expenditure in the states of the european south. finally, border controls must be increased and thermal cameras installed at all airports and ports to protect local communities from the deadly haemorrhagic fever.
in writing. in the context of the international community's legitimate concern about the risk of the spread of the deadly ebola virus and the effort to contain it, there has been a great deal of misinformation and lack of information, which can justifiably lead to panic situations, as is very often the case in such cases. the european centre for disease control and prevention has assured us that europe's health authorities are effective in detecting and confirming ebola cases, but the recent outbreaks in the eu are nothing to be reassured about. given this extraordinary and urgent situation, a priority for the eu must be coordinated action to inform european citizens correctly about transmission, prevention and protection from the virus. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the virus, including the introduction of a new virus, the introduction of a new vaccine, and the introduction of a new vaccine.
madam president, at the milan summit all the leaders stressed the high unemployment rates, especially among young people. president schulz said in particular that the crisis would only be over when europe had achieved stable growth rates and that now we must build the foundations for a better tomorrow. i would like to point out, however, that wishes are not the answer to unemployment. for example, the bulk of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2014-2020 is intended to finance the costs of schemes to help displaced people find a job or set up their own business. but this has done nothing to reduce unemployment. the unemployment rate, on the other hand, is rising. there are in greece 1.3 million displaced persons with training and skills who are desperately looking for work. we vote on reports, new measures and reforms without any real effect. and i ask you: can there be hope for young people without creating new jobs? let us finally decide that the money should go to development, not as a vague concept, but in targeted areas. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
answer "blue card". madam president, it is not just the euro that is hurting greece, but also the way the government is managing the money. for example, money from the european globalisation adjustment fund, instead of going to the people who are laid off, goes to some companies that do skills seminars and so on and they get most of the money, and very little goes to the people who are laid off. the money that the redundant workers will receive will be received after at least ten months or even a year, and our government presents it as a primary surplus.
madam president, the results for employment in the european union are disappointing once again, as parttime jobs are not stable jobs, nor can anyone be complacent. the guarantee for the young is aspirin, to buy us some time until we realize we need to change course and strategy. we must stop being passive in our decisions and in tackling unemployment, and turn the direction of growth. the digital age is here, and we must not be overtaken by developments again. we need to further strengthen horizon 2020, link european funds with the private sector by boosting innovation, acknowledge that the traditional way of tackling unemployment still allows it to grow in countries within the european union and inequalities to widen. and if the north endures, the south is exterminated. the consequences in the age of globalization, as we have recently learned, and epidemics are no longer limited by borders, especially amongst ourselves, and if we don't change course, we may soon be meeting the commissioner for crisis management more often here. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
the question is "blue card". madam president, just as i said in my speech, we must strengthen the link between european capital and the private sector in order to finance initiatives, especially in the field of innovation, as we can create jobs for young people and women there. we want further support, not rules which restrict initiative. the opposite. we want aid, but not a subsidy policy. this traditional approach has proved ineffective. we need money to develop initiatives, and not just to support people who are suffering from unemployment for a certain period of time.
madam president, 'in the same play spectators'. we hear the same thing over and over again. we see at the last summit in milan that the european union continues to base its competitiveness on the 'chineseisation' of wages, i.e. on the reduction of wages, a wrong policy, while it must instead invest in new technologies, education and training. but how can it do that when by violent budgetary adjustment it cuts public spending on education itself? it is therefore still relying on austerity, whereas it must boost demand. he continues to support the bank bailout: 1.6 trillion euros were given to bail out the banks, that is, to socialize the losses of the banks. only 6 billion euros for the youth guarantee. another trillion euros from mr draghi, again for the banks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i welcome the conclusions of the employment summit in europe, held in milan on the initiative of the italian presidency. the unemployment in the eu, especially among young people, women and the disabled, is scandalous. the eu has taken initiatives to boost employment from the structural funds, mainly through the european social fund, but also through the youth initiative, which gives new opportunities to apprenticeships and skills development. but unfortunately, these actions are not enough. the european union is a major player in the world economy, particularly in the european south, which is suffering from the economic crisis and the unprecedented unemployment rates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. we need new, targeted lines of financing which will help to revive the european economy and preserve social cohesion. it is the responsibility of all of us to build a stable framework that fosters public and private investment, creativity, start-ups, lifelong learning and mobility. the eu is one of the largest economies in the world, and our young people and human resources, taken together, are the best it has ever had. we must strengthen the competitiveness of the european market and keep our young people within our borders.
in writing. the milan employment summit has shown that the eu is not only unwilling but also unable to tackle the problem of unemployment, which is worsening and afflicting millions of families. the european union policy is spreading unemployment to more people, making flexible working more widespread, especially among young people, giving employers free labour, subsidising businesses and providing false training, slashing wages and fighting for rights that young people are seeking to never know. the aim of the eu and the parties that support it is to reduce the demands of workers, especially young people. the eu's 'fundamental principles' of free movement of capital and labour mobility ensure cheap labour for large groups, while at the same time throwing thousands of workers out of work. despite the competition, the eu's common objective is to make this situation permanent, to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to enjoy the benefits of the single market. this system cannot guarantee the right to work. it needs the armies of unemployed to ensure cheap labour, a basic requirement for profitability, competitiveness. securing the right to full, permanent work requires organized struggle, overthrowing the system that produces unemployment, poverty and exploitation.
the european semester is a tool which seeks to achieve coordination in the implementation of a failed policy, which is measured by certain figures. investment in the euro area is 15% lower than in 2009. the youth unemployment rate is 25%, while in my country, greece, it has reached 60%. the eurozone is stagnating and threatened with recession, so your theory, mr katainen, that 'hard unilateral austerity will bring investment' has failed. and mr della vedova, the italian presidency is coming to an end, it is the end of october, and the very nice words that mr renzi spoke to us here on 1 july about major changes are still awaited. what did you achieve at the unemployment summit in milan? a whole lot of nothing. mr katainen, you said that you could not tell us anything about the famous 300 billion euros promised to us by mr juncker on 1 july in this house because you were new. you were too old as a representative of a harsh neoliberal austerity. your policy has failed.
the report on the european semester, mr president, supports the anti-people measures to reduce the income of the people, to abolish the rights of workers and of the social security system. it calls for the unwavering application of the memoranda of understanding, the financing of banks and monopoly groups. the people are paying a heavy price for the capitalist crisis and the anaemic growth, however it comes, will be marked by a continuation of the anti-people offensive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used to support the development of the internal market, and i would like to thank the commission for its efforts in this area. the parties which present the fiscal relaxation as a popular recipe are mocking the workers, they are the very carriers of this anti-people attack. it is imperative that the people's struggle to recover their losses, to overturn the anti-people policy, to abolish exploitation, should now be developed.
mr president, the european semester for the coordination of economic policies is an undemocratic instrument for controlling the budgets of the member states in the context of german europe. in fact, greece will remain under continuous enhanced surveillance until it has repaid 75% of its debt to the european union, that is, at current rates, until 2050. greece can only exit enhanced supervision if it claims the repayment of germany's debts to greece, i.e. eur 108 billion without interest for german reparations and eur 54 billion without interest for the occupation loan, i.e. eur 162 billion without interest. we therefore call once again on the greek government to enter in the state budget the total amount of germany's debts to greece, which are both due and receivable and interest, amounting to eur 162 billion. because greece is the creditor and germany is the debtor. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and i would like to thank the commission for its support for the efforts of the greek government to bring about a peaceful solution to the conflict.
mr president, i think the picture is not as bleak as some colleagues have suggested. in recent years there has been serious progress on the basis of joint effort, a characteristic success being the withdrawal of ireland from the memorandum and i would even say 'excellent'. our portuguese friends were able to get out of the memorandum, our cypriot friends are doing better than planning and i am optimistic that my country, greece, will finally succeed, provided that the government becomes more bold in reforms, is able to reduce taxes by financing this reduction with a corresponding reduction in public spending, and i would also tell my friends in the greek opposition to become more responsible, more creative. i think we know what the general issues are, we need budgetary discipline - there is no other way - we need structural changes, we have understood this, and we also need a boost to investment activity, whether that boost comes through public spending from countries - of course - that have the means, or from countries that can reduce current spending and go ahead with public investment, and of course we also need the juncker plan or similar initiatives. so i am optimistic, as long as we can get along and move forward.
mr president, the immediate priorities must be education, health and research. anyone who really cares about the people cannot escape this rule. but to find the possibility of developing the primary sector, the agricultural economy, we must face the issue in a pivotal way, that money does not create values by itself, it exchanges values, it represents values, but only workers with their work can produce values. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this requires the socialization of the means of production, it requires the socialization of the ownership of money. but for that to happen, the people themselves must decide their own destinies. in short, whether they like it or not, the people will come to power in greece and set an example for the whole of europe.
in writing. - while this seems like a proposal for real support for the unemployed, and in such a difficult economic period, it hides the negative fact that almost nothing will reach the workers, since all the funding will go through intermediaries. i therefore vote against.
in writing. - my dear colleagues, the neoliberal policies you insist on pursuing have closed thousands of businesses and created millions of unemployed in the eu. the four cases today, in spain, belgium and france, with over 7000 dismissed, are not the first, nor will they unfortunately be the last. you cause misery and despair that you try to cover with crumbs of charity. the 150 million euro provided by the european adaptation fund for the new programming period is an insult to our intelligence and to the dignity of these people. this is not enough to cover the cost of schemes to help displaced people find new jobs or set up their own businesses. continued austerity does not lead to growth, but leads to lock-outs and unemployment. we need to break with that policy. i call for the immediate establishment of a comprehensive strategy and for the provision of adequate financial resources from the community budget to revive the european economy which is suffering. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy a decent standard of living.
in writing. - i am voting against this report because instead of going to the redundant staff who desperately need it, these funds will be allocated to companies or organizations (private or public) which are supposed to rehabilitate the staff concerned or help them find work. so either they create skilled unemployment or they prolong their agony.
in writing. - i vote against the report with the motion for a resolution because these measures are inadequate to deal with unemployment. also, most of the money does not go to the people who are laid off who need it, but to various counselling and career guidance companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's budgetary policy is not distorted by the fact that the european union itself is imposing austerity measures on the unemployed.
in writing. - i am voting against this report because instead of going to the redundant staff who desperately need it, these funds will be allocated to companies or organizations (private or public) which are supposed to rehabilitate the staff concerned or help them find work. so either they create skilled unemployment or they prolong their agony.
in writing. - i shall vote against the report with the motion for a resolution because these measures are inadequate to deal with unemployment. also, the money, for the most part, does not go to the fired people who need it, but to various counseling and career guidance companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's budgetary policy is not distorted by the fact that the european union itself is imposing austerity measures on the unemployed.
in writing. - i am voting against this report because instead of going to the redundant staff who desperately need it, these funds will be allocated to companies or organizations (private or public) which are supposed to rehabilitate the staff concerned or help them find work. so either they create skilled unemployment or they prolong their agony.
in writing. - i vote against the report with the motion for a resolution because these measures are inadequate to deal with unemployment. also, most of the money does not go to the people who are laid off who need it, but to various counselling and career guidance companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations.
in writing. - i am voting against this report because instead of going to the redundant staff who desperately need it, these funds will be allocated to companies or organizations (private or public) which are supposed to rehabilitate the staff concerned or help them find work. so either they create skilled unemployment or they prolong their agony.
in writing. the globalisation fund is unwilling and unable to tackle the huge problem of unemployment. it is being used to cover up anti-people politics, the exploitative nature of capitalist enterprises and the eu itself, by funding programmes to recycle unemployment and pseudo-training mechanisms that squander funds. the peugeot and ford cases are typical. monopoly groups exploit the capitalist crisis to reduce wages and throw thousands of workers out of work, moving the factories that are closing to countries with cheaper labor. the increase in the exploitation of workers is a necessary condition for the monopolies to maintain their profitability, even in the midst of the crisis, and to strengthen their position in the world monopoly competition that is raging. peugeot workers, ford workers, the working class as a whole must not limit their demands to the extreme poverty management trifles thrown at them by the eu and bourgeois governments. it needs to organise its struggle to regroup and counterattack the labour movement, targeting the very exploitative system that generates unemployment and poverty, to claim ownership of the wealth it produces, taking into its hands the keys to the economy and power.
mr president, the next summit will also be dominated by the economic issue. because we have three million more unemployed, because we have 25% of europeans living in poverty, because the eurozone is threatened with recession and deflation. mr katainen and mr della vedova, instead of general questions and routine statements, tell us what you discuss behind closed doors. mr katainen, a few days ago you made a statement about the greek economy. this new credit line, the pre-emptive, will it come with terms, a new memorandum? will the international monetary fund be involved in the new programme? what about the french budget? does the commission have a proposal or are you waiting to see what mr schaeuble decides before he discusses it with mr chapen yesterday? when will you tell us about the when, how and where of the 300 billion euros that mr. jünger has been promising us for months? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when are you going to make your own proposals? the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. it is you who are anti-european, not the european left, which is calling for a democratic, social europe with a strong social state and development.
in writing the eu summit on 23 and 24 in october, in brussels, it is concerned with accelerating capitalist restructuring in all its member states, promoting new anti-people measures to further reduce wages and pensions, striking at the social security systems, and drastic cuts in social spending. this is the content of the memoranda of understanding and the subject of the supervision of the member states in the context of 'enhanced economic governance' with the aim of ensuring the profitability of the eu's monopoly groups. the promotion of climate and energy measures 'with a time horizon of 2030' expresses the aspirations of large economic groups to find new areas of profitability, with renewable energy sources, 'green technologies' etc. in capitalism, any "energy mix" serves corporate profits, while for ordinary households energy is an inaccessible commodity. competitions within the eu and with other imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries for the means of production, control of energy sources and transport routes, increase the risks of a generalised conflict. they are already leading to the bloodletting of peoples in ukraine, iraq, syria, libya, and the wider region of the southeastern mediterranean and north africa, where the eu-us-nato imperialist interventions are taking place. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
mr president, today, once again in the context of the debate on the preliminary draft budget for 2015, it is confirmed that the european union, in the way it is organised and exercises its power, has lost its way. it has shifted its centre of gravity more towards numbers and economic power than towards its own citizens. on the one hand the council is trying to manipulate the european citizens in order to maintain power over them. it promises them growth, money, jobs and a better tomorrow, without being able to substantially argue where these funds will come from. on the other hand, the european parliament, with its plurality and its babylonian composition, cannot see clearly the path it must follow for the good of the citizens of a united europe. it is lost in the procedures and petty partisan debates of its numerous delegates to the delight of their national voters. what is the benefit of this budget as you plan to implement it? how do you help countries in economic crisis? an artificial crisis that leads to the control of nations. but i forgot, you don't deal with people, you don't deal with souls, you deal with numbers, businesses and memoranda. you don't deal with the young, you don't deal with the unemployed, you deal with programs, corporate funding and employers. so you deal with capital, banks and interests. we do not want such budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i think that the management of european union money is very good quality and efficient, and i disagree with the british eurosceptics and british anti-europeans who specialize in criticising alleged waste in the european union. the management criteria in the european union are much stricter, because we have a budget deficit limit, in emu, of 3% of gnp, whereas in the united kingdom, for example, the corresponding deficit is in the order of 6% of gnp. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we are a bit lazy in the budgetary approach. we must support the positions of the european parliament because we are facing new challenges. if, for example, ukraine collapses in winter because we have been indifferent, will we have saved money or will we have opened the way to new spending? and if, for example, ebola escapes from west africa because we've also been neglectful, and it comes to the european union, what are we going to gain financially, lose financially, do we meet to decide that, or do we talk through teleconferencing? in any case, i think that the italian presidency has responsibilities, mr renzi came here with good ideas, at least he should help us to uphold the prestige of the european parliament and the european union.
mr president, in a few moments we shall be called upon to ratify the election of the commissioners of the european union. we all know that the commissioner's role is very important, because he is called upon to implement the european union's programme and policy in the field he chairs and coordinates. the way in which the commissioner is chosen and elected is not flattering to the member. what 's the deal ? the commissioner has been selected by the country in cooperation with the president of the european commission and we are then simply asked to vote for or against him. we are therefore taking part in a formal procedure which we cannot influence and in which we cannot intervene. this would be done if there were at least two candidates for each position. that is what we are suggesting, and until that happens, we will simply have the illusion that we are participating in a process over which we have no influence.
the new commission, mr president, will continue, as did the previous commission, to attack the peoples with unabated intensity. the european union is an association of capital, so its institutions, their mission and their functioning, regardless of who they are, are marked by the rights of workers and serve the business groups and their ever-increasing profitability. the appointment of the new commission was made through bargaining and competition which have nothing to do with the interests of the working people. the programme statements, like the commissioners' hearings, are a means of promoting the european union's long-standing anti-union policy. the communist party of greece votes against the new european commission and calls on the people, without any waiting, without any delay, to organize the militant response for immediate recovery of losses, to chart a path of development that serves its interests in conflict with the european union and the monopolies.
mr president, mr juncker, both in your speech of 15 july and today you have shown that you have great ambitions. i agree and i sign it. we shall support you personally and the commission with all our strength in this endeavour. we want more and better europe. we want to broaden and deepen our democratic institutions. the european union is an incomplete institution, both economically and politically. if the united states has made it through the global crisis at the lowest possible cost, it is because it has a federal budget six times larger than that of the european union. they may print even a little inflationary money during the crisis. they have the federal bonds, we have nothing. we don't even have a policy to print one and two euro notes. but also on a political level, what is our effectiveness on the issue of ukraine? what is the effectiveness for kobani in the crisis of syria and iraq? what is our effectiveness in terms of aggression, of the violation of the exclusive economic zone of cyprus by turkey? is the exclusive economic zone of the member states an exclusive economic zone of the european union or not? for all these challenges, for all these difficulties we stand by your side and we will help you with all our strength.
i am not going to vote for mr juncker and his committee. the commission which you have just presented to us is a commission in which the old political world of europe is represented. four former prime ministers, several former ministers, all those who are politically responsible for the impoverishment of europe, for the socialization of the losses of the banks, for the creation of a huge army of unemployed, for the chineseisation of wages, for the over-indebtedness of greece with a huge and humiliating debt, so those who failed now promise to save europe, after having literally dismantled it. we are totally opposed to the commission's programme, because it condemns the european south to second gear, it strengthens german europe, it undermines the europe of the creditors who support the troika and the memoranda in greece, and it does not oppose the merkel policy.
mr president, the decision of the committee on culture not to accept the commissioner you sent and your insistence on accepting him is an example not of democracy but of dictatorship. everything i hear about democracy is 'in one ear and out the other'. as a human being, i am saddened to meet people expressing such things, but 'plato is a friend, truth is a friend.' in all constitutions, in all countries, it is written that popular sovereignty is the foundation. but where is democracy and its implementation when it is constantly being violated by everyone and everywhere? the problem of democracy is the biggest of all. history is knocking at our door. the greek people are rushing to open it to show you how the power of the people will be applied.
in writing. - i do not agree with the election of the new commission because none of the commissioners meet our expectations for the europe of the future. i therefore vote against the election of the commission.
in writing. - i am voting against the composition of the commission because it is composed of a president and members who do not have the will and the capacity to lead the european union on a path which will be in favour of its citizens, its nations, security and stability. the commission does not meet the expectations of the europe of the future.
in writing. - i vote against draft amending budget no 2/2014, because the money for the surplus is not properly allocated for the next year, but is lost in different budgets for the same benefit.
in writing. - i am voting against this draft because the transfer of the 2013 surplus to the 2014 budget is not being done in targeted areas where there are real needs and will help the member states of the european union, but as a reserve for additional payments, which means that this money will be managed for the benefit of those in power.
in writing. - i am voting against the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, because it shifts the centre of gravity of the union more towards numbers and power than towards the citizens themselves.
in writing. - i am voting against this proposal because it shifts the european union's focus more towards numbers and economic power than towards its own citizens and their needs.
in writing. the 2015 budget is as unpopular as the previous ones, but also the next ones to be drawn up under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. whether the funds are reduced, as proposed by the council, or increased, as proposed by the european parliament, they are intended to finance programmes, projects, actions and investments exclusively to boost the profitability of monopoly groups, at the expense of the needs of the people. the increase in the budget proposed by the european parliament concerns the financing of research projects in the service of capital, subsidies to monopolies for investments in new profitable sectors such as energy and the digital market. the eu's repressive mechanisms and its anti-migration policy should be strengthened. the increase in funds for the various political-military means for the eu's imperialist interventions throughout the world. the kke group therefore voted against the draft budget and the amendments proposed by the political staff of the monopolies and the forces of urban management which are moving in the same strategic direction of promoting capitalist development by strengthening business groups. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to freedom of movement for workers, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to freedom of movement for workers.
in writing. - i am voting against the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, all sections, because it shifts the centre of gravity more towards numbers and economic power than towards the citizens themselves.
in writing. - after long and largely unjustified delays, the eu budget is moving, albeit with many objections, in a development policy direction. however, in practice this could be more relevant to the adequacy of available resources to meet social priorities. in addition, the 2015 budget is quite limited in terms of the adequacy of resources to finance sectors of the economy such as entrepreneurship, support for smes, innovation, and in particular sufficient resources to support programmes for youth employment. in addition, for countries with a strong energy sector, it would be appropriate to place more emphasis on the second category of expenditure (natural resources). the emphasis at the moment is not significant and this holds back programs and actions that would help the country make significant strides in infrastructure. finally, it would have been potentially useful to have had transfers of resources from the fourth and fifth cost categories (europe as a global partner and administrative costs) at this stage in order to further strengthen the first, second and third cost categories.
in writing. - i am voting against this report because it shifts the european union's focus more towards numbers and economic power than towards its own citizens and their needs.
in writing. - full accession of croatia to this agreement will also mean the problematic disposal of its products in the eu, resulting in its economic dependence and its economic destruction. for this reason, i am voting against the protocol to the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, to take account of croatia's accession to the european union.
in writing. - i am opposed to this plan because if croatia fully joins the agreement with korea, the marketing of its products - compared with the corresponding products produced in korea - will be problematic and will lead to economic difficulties.
in writing. - i am voting against the european semester on the coordination of economic policies: implementing the priorities for 2014 because it requires the member states to comply with even more measures, it requires centrally strengthened governance for the economy and therefore weakening national governments and national independence, it requires the full integration of the european labour market - which will be disastrous for countries like greece - it provides for disproportionate privileges for the roma community in relation to the rest and, overall, it is contrary to the interests of my country and its people.
in writing. - it is important that the union has realised the need to harmonise the fiscal policies of the member states, albeit belatedly, as the crisis has found europe lacking in significant financial risk management and economic coordination tools. we welcome, of course, any effort to do so. however, the results of the implementation of the european semester are, so far, disappointing. we see this in practice, as in countries which are forced to make adjustments, unemployment is rising, youth unemployment is rising even faster, social inequalities are widening, and poverty is worsening. we are in agreement with the statements made by commissioner moscovici and hope that the text of the european semester will be improved as regards both content and implementation as from next year. moreover, it should be noted that this 'wind of change' towards more rational economic governance excludes greece and cyprus, which are still locked into the anachronistic policy mix of the memorandum, whose social consequences are even worse than the consequences of the poor implementation of the european semester, where it is applied. the union must take important and courageous decisions because if the european north can withstand slow economic death, the european south cannot withstand the 'imposed' rapid and painful economic annihilation.
in writing. - i am voting against this report because it promotes centrally controlled economic and social governance of the member states by weakening the respective national governments. it also promotes disproportionate privileges to roma over other citizens.
mr president, it has been established that the so-called 'jihadists' are the creation of the united states and its allies, who trained, armed and financed them. today, nato, the european union, the united states and their allies are using isis as a pretext to continue their interventions in both iraq and syria to control the wealth-producing resources of the wider region. turkey is among their allies. we are particularly concerned about turkey, which has been reported as having entered the cypriot exclusive economic zone on 20 october with two warships. this challenge is a dangerous development. turkey is violating the sovereign rights of cyprus and is perpetuating the occupation of a large part of the island. the peoples must condemn the european union's position covering up turkish aggression in cyprus, which has all but diminished since cyprus's accession to the european union.
mr president, anyone who thinks that kobani is far from the geographical area of europe should reconsider immediately and sharply. the number of european jihadists, according to the us counterterrorism center, is significantly high. it is confirmed that european passport holders fighting as jihadists in the ranks of the extremist islamic state are a direct threat to their country of origin and beyond. the troubled middle east has outgrown the myth of the hydra of lerna. the western world, using security, democracy and human rights as a pretext, has for years been discovering threats, like saddam, assad, iraq, iran, syria, palestine, jordan, and intervening. but each such intervention creates new enemies with greater hatred, extremism and a motive for revenge in place of the old ones. the islamic state - though it is wrong to call an extremist terrorist organisation a 'state' - is an asymmetric threat to europe and the world. the 15-member security council has declared that the islamic state must be defeated and the intolerance, violence and hatred it fosters must be stamped out. but it deliberately ignores the future shift in risk through the movement and activity of populations first in europe and then throughout the world.
mr. president, the atrocities of the islamic state are beyond the most morbid imagination. it is imperative that we deal with them. in this context, the martyrdom of kobani and the lifting of the siege of kobani have a strong substantive and symbolic character. so, in addition to continuing to provide humanitarian and logistical assistance to those resisting the islamic state, i believe that the european union should take the initiative to hold a conference of all the countries involved, in order to ensure a clear plan of joint action against the terrorists, with the aim of course of peace and prosperity for the wider region. the fight against the islamic state will be catastrophic if it becomes a monument of tactics for the benefit of national and regional interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the situation in the besieged kobanê is particularly critical. the dangers to the region from the islamic caliphate have increased in recent times. but the jihadists have been discouraged by turkey's stance, which covers and encourages their action. as if that were not enough, turkey is adding fuel to the fire by fuelling the situation in the eastern mediterranean region as the turkish seismic vessel 'barbaros', accompanied by two turkish warships, is conducting illegal surveys on the continental shelf and in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus, creating risks to peace. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. unfortunately, my proposal was rejected by the bureau without the support of any member of this house. when the matter is finally discussed at the november meeting in brussels, mr president, i hope it will not be too late.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr. president, today we see frankenstein's father wondering why what he made is a monster. really, how much more vulgar does your policy have to be to be forced to link it directly to its results? for 20 years now, on various fanciful pretexts, you and your allies have been bombing the entire planet with nuclear and chemical weapons, killing thousands of civilians that you insultingly call collateral damage. you trash democratic institutions, overthrow elected governments, threaten people and impoverish nations. all this to make the 7 or 17 sisters' profits go up. and you wonder why the taliban, al qaeda, and now the islamic state were born. you wonder why you have far-right and anti-europeanists sitting next to you. you wonder why european citizens go along with the barbarians, renouncing this mass of civilization you produce. don't be surprised your policies are the main generator of all these monsters. the only hope is the people's struggle and the only solution is your overthrow.
mr president, we all watch with horror and indignation, we condemn and we do well to condemn the unprecedented phenomenon of young people from european countries fighting alongside jihadists and committing crimes that have nothing to do with european culture or customs. but how many of us have asked ourselves why this behavior occurs? it is a fact that the young people of europe are no longer growing up with the principles and values which have shaped european civilization. loving your country is considered nationalism and fascism. refusing to allow hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants from different cultural backgrounds from third countries to enter your country and europe is considered racism. and yet the majority of young europeans fighting alongside jihadists are second and third generation muslim immigrants, who have been influenced by islamist propaganda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i think, madam president, that those who confuse the terms 'mare nostrum' and 'mos maiorum' - i would like to believe that this is not intentional - should realize that they are two completely different operations. are we going to ignore the fact that the rescue operation called 'mare nostrum' saved 5,000 people in italy in just one summer, in just one fortnight, or are we going to ignore the fact that on the shores of my homeland, greece, in the first half of 2014, 6,500 thousand people were rescued out of a total of 15,000 people who crossed the sea borders? i say this because by demonizing a new business, i believe we are not serving its purpose unless we have arguments to criticize with evidence and proof. i say this because none of us in this chamber believe that there is an operation initiated by italy, the 'mos maiorum' operation, whose sole purpose is to root out the traffickers of these people, which may or may not have distanced itself from methods of racism or human rights violations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it is necessary to check whether or not these traffickers are members of an international organized crime and we must know that the victims are not only immigrants, but people of all ages and especially young people, because these traffickers are mostly criminal organizations whose object is trafficking in human beings, arms trafficking, drug trafficking, organ trafficking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in any case, the way to combat illegal immigration is through a european compact policy that defines and protects legal immigration, and this is the principle of the new president juncker, as we have heard the new commissioner avramopoulos stress. the european parliament has always been a source of inspiration for the european community, and it has always been a source of inspiration for the european community. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer "blue card". madam president, mrs spinelli, you are addressing a colleague of yours who has been a combat lawyer in criminal law for thirty years. i will tell you that i have read the document to which you refer and that i have learned to judge by results and to criticize - and very severely - when i do not have in advance those examples which frighten and demonize a new measure which is in the right direction.
mr president, the h mos maiorum report is further proof of the lack of real respect for human rights by the european institutions. ten days after its launch, there is a lack of transparency as to the conditions under which migrants are detained, the safeguards that should accompany their treatment and the duration and conditions of their detention. even frontex took care to distance itself from the operation, stressing that it has no involvement in its organization. it is clear that mos maiorum is an attempt to impress the italian presidency and the governments implementing it. instead of police 'sweep' operations that reinforce xenophobic syndromes, it is necessary to have an integrated union migration policy with a fair distribution of responsibility among its member states. it is unacceptable to put the entire burden on the mediterranean member states alone and leave the core countries of the union, which are the real destinations of migrants, untouched.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. because dublin ii has trapped thousands of refugees in the countries of southern europe, in countries like greece, which has become a repository of souls for thousands of people who want to go to the countries of the european hard core. but the problem of thousands of illegal immigrants and refugees cannot be dealt with by mos maiorum-style police sweepings, without control, without transparency, without guarantees for the protection of human rights. it can be tackled by abolishing dublin ii and establishing a scale for allocating illegal migration flows to all european union countries on the basis of their economic strength, size and population. because greece, italy and the other countries of southern europe cannot stand any more refugees and illegal immigrants. the countries of the european hard core must therefore also assume their responsibilities on the basis of community solidarity.
the debate is closed. )
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the 2012 exemption: body of european regulators for electronic communications (com (2013) 0570 - c7-0329/2013 - 2013/2241 (dec))
the european union's institutions must be transparent and accountable to the citizens. the european council and the council, which think they are above control, are also in this situation. the european parliament has the power to grant the european council discharge. in his report, mr tamás deutsch makes specific observations and refers to the court of auditors' reasoned opinion on the european council's omissions. the european council, which at every opportunity points its finger at the people and reproves them. the european council therefore thinks it can do whatever it wants. it refuses to check the ceiling on the money spent on the europa building and the residence palace. mr. president, no one is beyond control. transparency everywhere and in everything. no discharge to the european council and the council in respect of the implementation of the 2012 budget.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 23 october 2014. the next meeting will be held tomorrow, thursday 23 october 2014, from 10.00 to 14.00. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
madam president, the juncker commission's vote is good news for the greek economy, because mr juncker has proved himself to be a greek and has interesting ideas. but we must all act dynamically and effectively. firstly, the greek government must become bolder in its reforms. secondly, the opposition parties in greece must stop saying 'no' to everything - it is characteristic that they were more negative in mr juncker's case than their political groups in the european parliament. thirdly, there must be the €300 billion juncker investment programme and fourthly, there must be the arrangement agreed on for the greek public debt between the eurozone and the greek government, an arrangement that will move payments from 30 to 50 years, so that the greek economy can grow, but also to get, in the long run, back the money of the european taxpayers who supported us,
your honor, on november 1st, 2013, two young greek children, george funtoulis and manolis kapelonis, were brazenly murdered outside the offices of the golden dawn people's association. one of them was my son, george foodoulis. november 1st is a year. the attack was claimed by left-wing extremists, who have so far not been caught. the murder of my child was the reason i decided to enter politics and i am here among you. i want everyone to condemn terrorism wherever it comes from and i want 1 november to be a europe-wide day against terrorism. thank you, sir. the immortals!
madam president, all reports, resolutions and actions against human rights violations, wherever they occur and by whomsoever they occur, are necessary and necessary. but for all our efforts to have value and force, we must also show in practice that we respect human rights. and the right of democracy, which is the highest of all human rights, is being violated here. the european union has shown the opposite yesterday by insisting on the appointment of a commissioner, despite the rejection of the commissioner by the committee on culture. but the european parliament is also infringing the rights of members and obliges them, when they want to table an amendment, to have forty members of parliament agreeing with them. it can't be.
in writing. - i am voting against the eu-ukraine customs union agreement because it was the reason for the coup in ukraine. it is a move clearly against russia on a symbolic level, and i also believe it will be detrimental to the people of ukraine, based on the experience of my own people.
in writing. - i am voting against this report because the reduction or abolition of customs duties on goods originating in ukraine is a symbolic move by the eu against russia because of developments in the crimea region. the eu must look positively at russia.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the 2012 exemption: body of european regulators for electronic communications, because i regard it as positive that the audit services have done their job for the smooth financial functioning of the institutions.
in writing. - i vote against this report as the necessary work of the respective services relating to the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2012 has been successfully and transparently completed.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the 2012 discharge for the european council and the council, because all the institutions must cooperate with each other, especially for audits and to justify to parliament the progress of certain projects.
in writing. - i shall vote against this report as not all the actions required to close the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, section ii european council and council have been completed. the cooperation of all eu institutions with each other and the transparency of all their actions and work is a cornerstone of the management of public money.
in writing. - i shall be voting against the european agreement on certain aspects of the organization of working time in inland waterway transport. i think that this agreement does not sufficiently protect workers.
in writing. - i am voting against this agreement because it does not sufficiently protect workers in this sector.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament has withdrawn and condemns the anti-communist feast for the berlin wall, which aims to slander socialism, falsify history and make the exploitative system the only choice of the people. anti-communism goes hand in hand with the fierce anti-people attack by the eu, bourgeois governments and monopolies against the peoples in all the member states. despite its falsifiers, the historical truth is unrelenting: the creation of two german states was a conscious choice of the imperialists. the war of the us-nato imperialists and their allies against socialism, the open undermining and provocations against the socialist state of the gdr, forced the construction of the berlin wall. the bourgeois festivals cannot erase from the historical memory the unprecedented conquests of the workers in the gdr, the ussr and the other countries of socialist construction. capitalism daily erects walls to the lives and rights of the working people, condemning them to live in poverty, relative and absolute misery, bloodshed and war. the people will turn the wheel of history forward. to socialism-communism that will free humanity from the shame of exploiting man by man, by elevating the working people to ownership of the wealth they produce.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr juncker, mr moscovici, we do not trust you because your governments and your parties have made this legislation, are maintaining it and implementing it, with the result that there is this blatant tax avoidance by the big multinationals with secret tax agreements. the result is that more money is paid by employees, pensioners, small and mediumsized enterprises. mr juncker told us that it was legal. yes, but it's also immoral and unjust and provocative, and that's why the legislation needs to change: if we want to avoid tax havens in the heart of europe, we need a minimum level of tax harmonization to prohibit and punish them severely. the commission's investigation is not enough for us because it is time-consuming and has so far proved ineffective. we are asking for a special committee of inquiry from the european parliament, which will come to a rapid conclusion, and we are asking you to make commitments with a clear timetable.
madam president, i think that the more we quarrel politically in this chamber, the further away we are from a fair and efficient tax system. it is clear that many member states of the european union are competing with each other in taxation, simply because we have not decided at government level to have a common tax system. we are therefore surprised at the results of our political decisions. i should also like to say that within countries, regions compete with each other in terms of taxation because of special circumstances, they try to attract investment and all that. it is wrong to confuse small and mediumsized enterprises - and to say that they are overtaxed - with multinationals, because multinationals, as unpleasant as that may sound politically, are fighting a more complex fight on a global scale, because after all we do not want to cut the legs off european multinationals in favour of american multinationals or chinese multinationals, which are extremely powerful. so i think there's a political hypocrisy here: we've seen it all today. it's what they said in ancient greece, "i grow old when i'm learning". we have seen the representatives of the city of london, the representatives of the isle of man, accuse mr juncker - unfairly in my view - and we have seen our friends from the greens and the left follow the example of the financial times and bloomberg. we saw it all! (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question with a blue card. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i'll also tell you this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, "all together"; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
we all know that there was tax evasion within the european union, but now we know how and where to look. the european parliament's proposal, almost ten years ago, provided not only for the abolition of banking secrecy but also for the fight against tax evasion through the ccctb tax you mentioned. the european parliament has moved in this direction but we have not been heard - we need honesty, transparency and fairness - so the council and the member states must take their responsibilities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the secret agreements and the lux leaks have shown that the crisis is due to the inadequacy of a common european policy, since the rules do not apply to everyone, and the memoranda are again only for a few. the burden is thus selectively placed on wage cuts rather than on the multinationals which, through their subsidiaries, are the main source of the problem and contribute to the flight of investment from the countries which have made the greatest sacrifices to richer countries. under barroso's presidency of the commission, nothing had been done. we hope that juncker and moscovici will fight immoral tax evasion in europe with sanctions because, basically, we need a specific timetable so that we can say that in the next annual report on taxation we will have fewer objectives and more results.
madam president, while the troika, led by the eurogroup and mr juncker, has imposed on greece a heavy tax policy which has impoverished the greek people, mr juncker's luxembourg, as well as other member states of the european union, are operating in the territory of tax havens. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. he tried, unsuccessfully, to abdicate his responsibilities. he convinced no one of the conflict of interest, since he is the chairman of the commission which is supposed to be doing the audit for the juncker gate. in my country, greece, there is a saying: "john is a barman and john is a drinker". this is also true of mr juncker: juncker buys and juncker drinks! that is why i have voted against mr juncker as the candidate for president of the commission.
in writing. the noise around the 'revelations' of luxembourg's tax deals with monopoly groups for preferential tax treatment, under the premiership of the current commission president, zk jünger, reflects the intensification of monopoly competition within the eu. at the same time, attempts are being made to conceal the substance. the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty, and the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty, and the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty. in the revealing debate in the european parliament, juncker claimed that luxembourg's tax agreements are all "legal", in line with the treaties and eu law. the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. all kinds of tax breaks and incentives for big business by the city governments and eu institutions are guaranteed by national and eu laws and treaties for all member states. the eu was founded and operates to serve the expansion of monopolies and the increase of their profits at the expense of the people, a form of which is both tax breaks for capital on the one hand and the savage tax evasion of workers on the other.
the commission's proposal is not a mere proposal to make a new financial instrument. a european commission that, as a member of the troika, is pointing the finger at greece and the countries of the european south and demanding a brutal budgetary adjustment and dismissals of public servants on the pretext that they are inadequate, while the commission itself cannot put its house in order and control its own staff for cases of inadequate budgetary management explicitly mentioned in the court of auditors' report: who is responsible for the €7 billion that was wrongly paid? what will you say to the millions of unemployed in the european south about the scandals described in the report, about corruption in the award of contracts, about the squandering of resources, about mismanagement, about how the expenditure will be financed? the commission's budgetary management is therefore not justified and satisfactory, we have had breaches of rules and a lot of errors.
madam president, it is shameful that the european union is blindly following the case of cyprus. there are no two communities. there is the republic of cyprus. for 40 years all the international organizations have been caressing turkey, which currently occupies 37% of the european territory, that is, the republic of cyprus. but it is illegally occupied by turkey, which has the audacity to knock on europe's door. a country that does not comply with un security council resolutions, that violates international law by occupying the occupied territories, that invokes the law of the sea which it has not even signed, that against all logic, morality and legal dimension believes that it can infringe on the sovereign rights of another state. and we are talking about reasonable accommodations, when we have gone against all reason, to sanctions against russia. so what are we talking about instead of doing? the turkish actions in the eez of cyprus constitute a direct offensive against the european union. no discussion and no action until turkey withdraws its research vessel and warships from the area, abolishes the pseudo-state and officially recognises the republic of cyprus. turkey has already revealed its true self in relation to the jihadists of the islamic caliphate. a hyper-violent, expansionist and aggressive country of the bubble, with the syndrome of ottomanism of the past. it's time to finally stop putting up with her, finally pull her ear.
the turkish aggression in the exclusive economic zone of turkey is a serious threat to the stability of the region. the commission the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all those who have been detained in the area of cyprus, including the former president of the council, mr giscard d'estaing, and the former president of the commission, mr giscard d'estaing. turkey must commit itself to the principles of good neighbourliness and the peaceful settlement of disputes between all the states of the world. turkey must sign and ratify the international law of the sea, part of the european acquis - it is the only country that has not signed the convention on the law of the sea for 20 years - and it is the only country that has not signed the convention on the law of the sea for 20 years. turkey is the only country that has not signed the convention on the law of the sea, part of the european acquis - and it is the only country that has not signed the convention on the law of the sea for 20 years. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question with a blue card. mr president, i would personally be against continuing these funds. but these, as the honourable member must know, are not matters which we discuss in the european parliament, they are matters of the european treaties which we cannot change in the european parliament.
mr president, turkey has illegally invaded cyprus and illegally occupies 37% of the cypriot territory. it has now begun to carry out, in violation of international law, illegal seismic surveys in the exclusive economic zone and on the continental shelf of cyprus. the european union must take strong measures against turkey in order to stop ankara's aggression against cyprus, which is a member of the european union. the european parliament must also tell turkey that: it is the sovereign right of cyprus to conclude agreements for the exploitation of natural resources in its exclusive economic zone. secondly, to demand the withdrawal of the turkish occupation troops. thirdly, to call on turkey to comply with international law and to stop its illegal actions and threats against any state of the european union. fourthly, turkey must stop taking steps which call into question the right of cyprus to exploit hydrocarbons in its exclusive economic zone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, following the international community's hermaphroditic policy on cyprus, has ended up negotiating the accession of a country which, with 45,000 troops, occupies 3,500 square kilometres of european territory. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. negotiations without substance, extortionist dilemae like the annan plan, tolerance of the creation of deeds, circumvention of structural rules of the accession procedure, neutral statements and recommendations for restraint, among other things, have shaped the course of barbarossa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union strongly condemns turkey's aggressive actions, which constitute an attack on the european union and its citizens, threaten the union's energy security, undermine efforts to find a substantive solution to the cyprus problem and require a review of turkey's accession path. any retreat from this is an insult to the cypriot people and a blow to the cohesion of the european union.
mr president, the kke stands with the cypriot people and supports the struggle for a united and independent cyprus, with a single sovereignty, citizenship and international personality, without foreign bases, troops, foreign guarantors and protectors. the european union has condemned neither the turkish occupation of cyprus nor turkey's violations, while nato provocatively recommends restraint to all sides. the communist party of greece demands that the turkish provocations be condemned in the strongest terms and opposes the attempts to undermine it with amendments to the resolution which propose the sharing of hydrocarbons, devising a bipartisan solution, legitimizing the unacceptable turkish claims and questioning the sovereign rights of cyprus and greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it can only be served in conflict with the eu and nato, with the people acting in their own interests.
mr president, the fall of the berlin wall, as many have said, was not achieved by arms but by genuine solidarity based on the law of nations, the principles of freedom and common sense. but nicosia is the last capital of europe with a wall, the result of military invasion and illegal occupation, and this is something that we should express our solidarity with cyprus, which must preserve its sovereignty and exercise its sovereign rights freely, like any european country, in accordance with international law. otherwise, what union are we talking about? and you, colleagues, in your countries, exercise your rights without terror or threats. what kind of union and what kind of alliance are we talking about if we allow such aggression against a country of the european union? without respect for international law, turkey is marginalizing itself. we need geopolitical stability and we need to not continue in silence but to have a common voice as the european parliament. finally, it is impossible to have a european union if it does not have common borders, if it does not have the courage and the audacity to defend them when necessary against any small or large challenge. today it is cyprus, tomorrow it could be the baltic states, the day after tomorrow finland... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, the turkish ship barbaros, a warship escort, recently illegally entered the exclusive economic zone of cyprus to carry out hydrocarbon exploration. in turkey, the government is attempting to islamise society and limit the secular state as part of its neo-ottoman policy. the european perspective and respect for the obligations arising from it remains the only way to counteract such a development and still has considerable support in turkish society. the turkish government has chosen to intensify its action in the cypriot eez precisely for this reason. previously, she chose, unfortunately for her, the fall of kobani, the open flirtation with isis and the freezing of relations with armenia. today we call for the strongest condemnation of the turkish government's actions and for the immediate withdrawal of turkish vessels from the eez of cyprus. the aim is to restart the talks between the two communities in cyprus in order to find a just solution to the cyprus problem within the framework of the un. this is the only way to secure the rights of both communities to hydrocarbon revenues.
the commissioner, mr hahn, just yesterday in the joint parliamentary committee european union - turkey you are aware that the violation of the exclusive economic zone by turkey was discussed in detail in an extensive debate. today, turkey repeatedly violated greek airspace over the island of mykonos. it simply means that turkey is deliberately ignoring international law, the acquis communautaire, the united nations convention on the law of the sea, the decisions of the security council, does not recognise the republic of cyprus, does not respect the member states of the european family and i wonder: you said in your opening remarks that we expect turkey to show restraint. i wonder how long we'll have to wait. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
question with a blue card. mrs wozenberg, i am also invoking your capacity as a lawyer and i would like to ask whether you think that the tolerance of the european parliament and the implicit declaration of illegal occupation in cyprus could possibly set a precedent which could be used in the future, given that today it is cyprus, tomorrow it could be the baltic and the day after tomorrow it could be finland.
answer to a question with a blue card. it's not a matter of, you know, legal knowledge. i have seen your remark and your recommendation and i agree with it. the very fact that a country is seeking to join the european family through accession talks, but is not respecting international law, should determine our attitude. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in turkey, and we are therefore calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the turkish authorities are not forced to accept the new turkish government.
mr president, i would like to put the following question to the attention of my colleagues: in 2004 we were all sure that turkey wanted to be a candidate country for the union. today, as the turkish political leadership behaves, are we still sure - in 2014 - that turkey wants to remain a candidate country of the european union? i'll give you one example: on the one hand, it continues to ignore the republic of cyprus, ten years after the opening of accession negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so does turkey want to be a candidate country to the european union? there are ways, apart from resolutions, of sending a serious, loud message to turkey that in order to continue to maintain the status of a candidate country it must comply with international law and european data? can this be done even with the restriction of financial aid? let's all face it here.
mr president, this is not just a matter of turkey's provocation. he's already invaded the exclusive economic zone and is investigating: so this is conquest. the fact that turkey is a member of nato is the reason for the restraint we have shown so far in our attitude towards turkey. if it were not a member of nato, our response would be different, i mean the response of the european union and the european parliament. i wonder if we would have taken the same position if turkey had done something similar in italy, spain or france. why two meters and two scales? i strongly condemn the european union and the commissioner for the fact that we in turkey forgive everything because it is a member of nato.
mr president, after the division of sudan into two states, the people are living in miserable conditions created by imperialist interventions carried out under the pretext of ethnic and religious conflicts which the imperialists themselves have instigated in order to seize the country's resources. poverty, epidemics, brutal repression make life hell for the people while, at the same time, the business groups represented by the eu, the us and nato are enriching. the kke condemns the new persecutions by the bourgeois state of sudan against the political general secretary and members of the sudanese communist party, as well as leading workers in that country. the trumped-up charges fall flat. all political prisoners to be released immediately. hands off the sudanese communists!
mr president, the humanitarian crisis in south sudan is at its peak. millions of people have fled their homes, and thousands of them have sought refuge in neighboring countries. so today south sudan is facing the most alarming food crisis in the world, as nearly 4 million people face food shortages. humanitarian aid to the region has increased to almost eur 7 million, but this is not enough. humanitarian organizations must be urgently strengthened with resources to support the suffering population of sudan and children struck by famine, plague and disease. finally, the international community must take initiatives to resolve the problem in south sudan, which has religious and ethnic dimensions.
mr president, in greece, the government and the troika are planning a further increase in the retirement age, the substantial abolition of supplementary pensions and a further reduction in the rest of health benefits, by means of the consolidation of the sinking insurance funds, as employers and the state are relieved of their obligations in favour of private occupational insurance in accordance with european union policy. they're planning to unleash mass layoffs, a lockout for employers, a substantial repeal of the right to strike to counter the escalation of the attack. the european union, through its memoranda of understanding, is imposing a generalized poverty line with crumbs on the poor, wage cuts with a guaranteed minimum income, a pension guarantee of 360 euros. these are the causes of the workers' war against the european union, its monopolies and its power. that's why on november 1st with the worker's struggle front in athens of the memorandum, on november 6th in brussels that has no memorandum, hundreds of thousands of workers took to the streets with common demands. hands off social security, yes to wage increases, down anti-people taxes!
mr president, greece is one step away from the end of the support programme and, despite the successful stress tests of the banks, liquidity for small and mediumsized enterprises has not yet been restored. so we need everyone here to help make this an emergency cash injection. the new financial framework enables businesses to finance investments and to obtain loans at reduced interest rates, also through the structural funds. but what about those smes that are healthy but are facing liquidity problems and difficulties in repaying old loans taken out during the crisis at high interest rates? mr president, the present legislation does not allow existing loans to be refinanced by the new financial instruments. i believe that the new conditions call for exceptional action and that is why i call on the commission to take a legislative initiative to improve, to change the existing regulation. it is time to give healthy, cash-strapped smes a chance now that the crisis in greece seems to be coming to an end.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of the world. the european union is also committed to the development of the democratic process in the country, and to the development of the democratic process in the country. the forthcoming elections in moldova must be held under all democratic conditions and guarantees. the eu has also been active in the field of energy, with a number of initiatives in the field of renewable energy. i would like to make the following point. the european parliament yesterday condemned turkey's illegal seismic surveys in the cypriot eez. there are reports that romania is preparing to sell turkey an oil and gas platform to be installed by turkey in the cypriot eez. i call on the romanian side not to take part in such an illegal action, to show solidarity with cyprus and to respect international law.
in writing. - mrs gomes' criticism of the portuguese government's decision not only concerned matters of genuine public interest - the privatisation of major shipyards - but was also directly and manifestly linked to the exercise of her duties as an mep. he had shown interest in the subject at european level, as is shown, inter alia, by the questions for written answer which he had tabled - jointly or individually - in accordance with parliament's rules of procedure. at the hearing in committee, mrs gomes provided evidence of her extensive correspondence on the subject with commissioners almunia and tajani. as confirmed by the documents made available to the committee, the matter was of major importance at european level, since the portuguese government's decision had triggered a commission investigation into the infringement of eu state aid rules. the existence of a direct and obvious link between the opinion expressed by mrs gomes and her duties as a member of the european parliament is therefore beyond doubt. the prosecution of mrs gomes for these statements would be tantamount to preventing her from exercising her parliamentary mandate freely and would be contrary to the purpose of article 8 of the protocol.
in writing. - mrs gomes' criticism of the portuguese government's decision not only concerned matters of genuine public interest - the privatisation of major shipyards - but was also directly and manifestly linked to the exercise of her duties as a member of the european parliament. the prosecution of mrs gomes for the statements in question would amount to an impediment to her free exercise of her parliamentary mandate and would clearly be contrary to the purpose of article 8 of the protocol. i am voting in favour of the report on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of ana gomes.
in writing. - as confirmed, the issue on which the waiver of immunity was sought was of major importance at european level, given that the portuguese government's decision had triggered an investigation by the european commission for breach of eu state aid rules. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the prosecution of mrs gomes for the statements in question would amount to an impediment to her free exercise of her parliamentary mandate and would clearly be contrary to the purpose of article 8 of the protocol.
in writing. - we vote against, although we disagree with the economic policy of reintegration, which provides funds to companies for retraining, instead of to the dismissed who need it immediately.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report, although i disagree with the economic policy of reintegration, which provides funds for training companies instead of for the dismissed who need them most.
in writing. - we support, although we disagree with, the economic policy of supporting the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation, which provides funds to retraining companies instead of to the redundant workers who need them immediately.
in writing. - we vote against, although we disagree with the economic policy of reintegration, which provides funds to companies for retraining, instead of to the dismissed who need it immediately.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report, although i disagree with the economic policy of reintegration, which provides funds for training companies instead of for the dismissed who need them most.
in writing. - we support, although we disagree with, the economic policy of supporting the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation, which provides funds to retraining companies instead of to the redundant workers who need them immediately.
in writing. - we oppose the report as a whole, as the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the member states on the one hand and moldova on the other will disrupt eu-russia relations, creating around russia a strong ring of influence of the transatlantic powers.
in writing. - i vote against the report as a whole, as the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the member states on the one hand and moldova on the other will disrupt eu-russia relations by creating around russia a strong ring of influence of the transatlantic powers.
in writing. - we oppose the report as a whole, as the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the member states on the one hand and moldova on the other will disrupt eu-russia relations, creating around russia a strong ring of influence of the transatlantic powers.
in writing. - we oppose the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and its member states on the one hand and moldova on the other, as it would disrupt eu-russia relations, while creating around russia a ring of transatlantic powers.
in writing. - i am opposed to the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and its member states on the one hand and moldova on the other, as this would disrupt eu-russia relations, while creating around russia a ring of transatlantic powers.
in writing. the eu-moldova association agreement and the accompanying free trade agreement serve the ambitions of eu monopolies and sections of the country's domestic capital that see their interests better served by relations with the eu. these agreements accelerate the liberalisation of the moldovan market through a series of capitalist restructuring measures that facilitate the penetration of monopoly groups, such as large-scale privatisations, the award of public contracts to foreign companies, and the functioning of the public administration to serve 'investors'. the conclusion of the agreements with moldova is part of the imperialist plans of the so-called 'eastern partnership', the eu's strategy for its penetration into countries which were former soviet republics and which today are the scene of fierce confrontation between the eu and capitalist russia, with the exploitation of their rich resource-producing, especially energy, resources as the focus. these agreements and the monopoly competition between capitalist associations are intensifying the exploitation of the people of moldova and the other peoples of the region, and are creating the risk of armed conflict and bloodshed, as the experience of ukraine shows. the peoples' interest lies not in choosing the imperialist camp but in clashing with the monopolies and their power to take their fate into their own hands.
in writing. - we oppose the report as a whole, as the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the member states on the one hand and moldova on the other will disrupt eu-russia relations, creating around russia a strong ring of influence of the transatlantic powers.
in writing. the eu-moldova association agreement and the accompanying free trade agreement serve the ambitions of eu monopolies and sections of the local capital of this country that see their interests better served by relations with the eu. these agreements accelerate the liberalisation of the moldovan market through a series of capitalist restructuring measures that facilitate the penetration of monopoly groups, such as large-scale privatisations, the award of public contracts to foreign companies, and the functioning of the public administration to serve 'investors'. the conclusion of the agreements with moldova is part of the imperialist plans of the so-called 'eastern partnership', the eu's strategy for its penetration into countries which were former soviet republics and which today are the scene of fierce confrontation between the eu and capitalist russia, with the exploitation of their rich resource-producing, especially energy, resources as the focus. these agreements and the monopoly competition between capitalist associations are intensifying the exploitation of the people of moldova and the other peoples of the region, and are creating the risk of armed conflict and bloodshed, as the experience of ukraine shows. the peoples' interest lies not in choosing the imperialist camp but in clashing with the monopolies and their power to take their fate into their own hands. "
in writing. - we are opposed to the proposal on the peace talks in northern ireland because reconciliation of peoples is not achieved through funding (e.g. the peace iv programme) but through the redress of historical injustices. the right of self-determination of peoples also applies to the irish people, this resolution legitimizes the situation which is a relic of the british expansionist policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i vote against the proposal on the peace talks in northern ireland because reconciliation of peoples is not achieved through funding (e.g. the peace iv programme) but through the redress of historical injustices. the right of self-determination of peoples also applies to the irish people, this resolution legitimizes the situation which is a relic of the british expansionist policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the resolution is part of the eu's attempt to use northern ireland's historic problems to impose solutions that will make the whole island a safe investment ground for local and international monopolies. the triumphal processions over the 'peace process' conceal the fact that workers, protestants and catholics, in northern ireland and the rest of the island are experiencing the savage attacks of capital against all labour and social rights, the taxation of water, the attack on the right to education, health, housing, etc. the majority in the northern ireland assembly, together with the central british government, the irish government, the eu, and the us are imposing these savage measures on behalf of capital and exploiting the different cultural and religious traditions and the people's desire for peace to divide and rule. at the same time, the us and the eu are exploiting the island for their imperialist interventions, as is the case with the use of shannon airport in the south by us military aircraft as a launching pad for the bloodshed of the peoples of the middle east.
in writing. - we are opposed to the proposal on the peace talks in northern ireland because reconciliation of peoples is not achieved through funding (e.g. the peace iv programme) but through the redress of historical injustices. the right of self-determination of peoples also applies to the irish people, this resolution legitimizes the situation which is a relic of the british expansionist policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - we are voting against because the whole text is nothing but a paternal caress and rebuke to turkey, it presents the cyprus problem as a problem of two communities, when in fact it is a problem of invasion and occupation and it does not include any sanction against a terrorist state.
in writing. - i vote against because the whole text is nothing but a paternal caress and rebuke to turkey, it presents the cyprus problem as a problem of two communities, when in fact it is a problem of invasion and occupation and it does not include any sanction against a terrorist state.
in writing. the resolution adopted in the european parliament on turkey's aggression against cyprus is inconsistent with the aspirations and rights of the cypriot people, their longstanding struggles for a just solution to the cyprus problem. the resolution with the amendments finally adopted in substance approves the unacceptable statements of the un special adviser on cyprus, e.m. aide, who proposes the distribution of hydrocarbons to monopolies and opens the way for the legitimization of unacceptable turkish claims. it expresses the fierce competition between business groups for control of energy sources and energy transportation. it also includes the harmful notion that the accession of cyprus to the imperialist eu and turkey's accession negotiations with the eu will contribute to a just solution to the cyprus problem, which has been effectively denied. a perception that proves to be unfounded and dangerous. the kke supports the struggle of the cypriot people and stresses the need to intensify without delay the struggle against the monopolies and their associations for a united, independent cyprus with a single sovereignty, citizenship and international personality, without foreign bases and troops, without foreign guarantors and protectors.
in writing. - turkish actions in the eez of cyprus constitute direct offensive action against the eu . turkey observes to withdraw the research vessel and warships from the area, to abolish the pseudo-state and to officially recognise the republic of cyprus. it is shameful that the european union is blindly following the case of cyprus. for 40 years, 37% of european territory - the republic of cyprus - has been illegally occupied by a country - turkey - which has the audacity to knock on europe's door.
in writing. the resolution adopted in the european parliament on turkey's aggression against cyprus is inconsistent with the aspirations and rights of the cypriot people, their longstanding struggles for a just solution to the cyprus problem. the resolution with the amendments finally adopted in substance approves the unacceptable statements of the un special adviser on cyprus, e.m. aide, who proposes the distribution of hydrocarbons to monopolies and opens the way for the legitimization of unacceptable turkish claims. it expresses the fierce competition between business groups for control of energy sources and energy transportation. it also includes the harmful notion that the accession of cyprus to the imperialist eu and turkey's accession negotiations with the eu will contribute to a just solution to the cyprus problem, which has been effectively denied. a perception that proves to be unfounded and dangerous. the kke
in writing. - condemns the renewed violence and violations of the ceasefire agreement, calls on the international community to honour its financial commitments; humanitarian and food aid must be provided to the most vulnerable and not for the benefit of armed forces. it condemns the mass killings, the targeting of civilians and the violations of human rights. concerns about the ethnic dimension of the conflict.
in writing. - i object because it is our constant position that the eu should not interfere in the internal affairs of foreign countries, because no one has appointed it as the world policeman. this is an imperialist policy contrary to our values. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is the european union which is the main force in the world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the oil industry. also, at this time, with thousands of europeans homeless and unemployed, the eu must look after its own needs first and not waste money on so-called humanitarian aid, especially since much of this money goes to the armed forces. so we are voting against the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. - we are voting against the joint motion for a resolution because it is our constant position that the eu should not interfere in the internal affairs of foreign countries. the interventions of european (and other) states are fuelling the conflicts in africa and are mainly aimed at controlling the oil fields. the european union must also take care of european citizens first and foremost at a time when thousands of europeans are homeless and unemployed.
mr president, the draft resolution we are discussing sets out objectives for global development after 2015, such as eradicating poverty, combating inequalities and respecting human rights, on which there should be broad agreement. i must point out, however, that the attitude of the main political forces in this respect, both in the european parliament and in the governments of the member states, is very hypocritical, since opposite policies are being pursued within the union. in the member states with excessive debt in particular, the notorious structural reforms are being translated into the violent impoverishment of the majority of society, to the benefit of domestic and especially international capital, and into a systematic violation of social rights. i therefore believe that instead of making grandiose declarations about the future of other continents, the european union should look at itself in the mirror and change course before it is too late.
mr president, in a period of enormous economic and technological development of the world society, there are 1.2 billion of our fellow men living in conditions of extreme poverty. at the same time, 250,000 people across the planet have a net worth of $30 trillion, or over one-third of global gdp. according to a recent ubs report, the trend of the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer continued in 2014. the total net wealth of the rich americans increased by 6%, the rich europeans by 8.9% and the rich greeks, in troika and memorandum greece, by 16.7%, from $60 billion to $70 billion. at the same time, 3.9 million people in greece live below the poverty line, i.e. 35.7% compared to 27.6% in 2009. so poverty is the result of specific policies - the policies of the memoranda and austerity.
mr president, the controls on exports of dual-use goods are an important action which the european union must encourage. this can also be done at international level through mechanisms for the adoption of common practices, also known as export control regimes. the issue of new members joining export control regimes must be considered on a technical basis and not as a field for the exercise of exclusionary policies. in this context, it should be noted that turkey is blocking the candidacy of cyprus to the mtcr missile technology control regime, the wassenaar arrangement and the zangger commission. the european union should therefore support the cypriot candidacy for these export control regimes by putting pressure on turkey.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this is a very important political issue concerning the european union's own competences, the protection of the principle of delegation and the protection of the presumption of competence in favour of the member states. this is the first element that the european commission should consider. the second is respect for fundamental rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the third point concerns the impact on small and mediumsized enterprises, which really must be taken very seriously. i will tell you, for example, what is happening in greece, where the memorandum is being implemented and where no controls have been carried out and no economic and social impact assessment has been carried out, where we have thousands of unemployed people, where we have thousands of impoverished greeks. i would like to tell you, commissioner, what has happened to small and mediumsized enterprises, because the commission is a member of the troika. two hundred and thirty thousand businesses have closed. there was a 75% drop in turnover. the tax liabilities cannot be met. 46% of smes are late in making payments. if you had done a social and economic impact assessment, we might have had different results. we must also have an impact assessment on technological development because without technology we cannot move to the new production model. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, sixty-nine years have passed since the end of the second world war, and yet germany refuses to pay greece the war reparations awarded to it by the international conference in paris in 1946, amounting to 108 billion euros, excluding interest. it also refuses to sign a peace treaty with greece, even though both countries are members of the european union. at the same time, germany refuses to return to my country the forced occupation loan it imposed in 1942 on occupied greece, which today amounts to 54 billion euros, without interest. this loan destroyed the greek economy and over 600,000 greeks died of starvation. the european parliament has also expressed its concern at the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is a source of concern for the european union. all this is contained in the black book published by my colleague, mr manolis glezos. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote.
madam president, democracy in greece is being systematically violated when its citizens living abroad cannot vote in national elections, and especially when, because of the crisis, there is a wave of immigration, mainly of young people. the greek state is preventing all of them from exercising their democratic rights, as the cost of travel is prohibitive. so only the rich will vote? why is the greek government deaf to the calls of the greek communities and not allowing expatriate greeks to vote from their countries of residence, when they are voting in the european elections? why does the greek government not respect the relevant resolutions of the european parliament and not apply an earlier relevant law? why is the european union not putting pressure on the greek government when it is instead doing its bit to save the banks? who's afraid of who in this crisis?
madam president, in recent years in europe, a large proportion of our fellow citizens have been living below the poverty line because of the austerity policies and fiscal adjustment measures implemented in many member states of the european union to deal with the economic crisis. according to eurostat data for 2013, 120 million europeans live under this regime. my country, greece, ranks third in europe for poverty rates, and unemployment is over 27%. this fact reveals the depth of the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. europe must now tackle the spread of poverty effectively and must pursue a long-term strategy with the aim of gradually restoring the living standards of europeans, especially in the countries where the phenomenon is particularly acute.
madam president, the resolution and the 2020 strategy of the european union and the urban governments for cheap labor and capital gains mandate subsidies and the transfer of taxes and contributions from employers to the people who pay with savage taxes and with reductions in wages, pensions and social benefits. the generalization of flexible low-paid work spreads unemployment to more people. there is: subordination of training to business planning; unpaid work with training and apprenticeship programmes; generalised poverty line with minimum guaranteed income; the commission has also proposed that the council of ministers should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european company law body. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this policy cannot have social aspects; the european union is a cause of war against capital, against the european union and against the parties which support and embellish it. the general strike on november 27th in greece will give an answer.
madam president, as is clear from the evidence so far, the economic programme of the european union's 2020 strategy is in danger of failing because the measures it proposes have adverse effects on the societies of almost all the countries of the european union. youth unemployment has skyrocketed everywhere but particularly in the countries of the european south. the situation is even worse in my own country, greece, where the people are suffering from the austerity measures imposed on them as a result of the implementation of the memoranda. the destruction of the primary sector, the destruction of small and mediumsized enterprises, the lack of investment, the limitation and lack of social policy, the limitation of jobs, mediocre working conditions and the influx of immigrants from third countries have created an unacceptable situation of poverty in the formerly prosperous europe. this is because the people who write these programs are bureaucrats... (the president interrupts)
madam president, the results of the 2020 strategy are disappointing, especially in terms of achieving the social objectives, because for four years we have gone from bad to worse. the european semester itself is proving to be inadequate and ineffective. from a country i know best, the five social and employment indicators are as follows: unemployment 30%; unemployment among young people 60%; citizens at risk of falling below the 30% poverty line; citizens already below the 20% poverty line. the disparities are dramatic. the top 20 percent of people have six times the wages of the bottom 20 percent. the countries of the south most at risk are those excluded from european economic governance. the commission is left with findings without responding with ways of activating mechanisms that can deal with the problems. the lux leaks scandal shows that countries that are forced to have high taxes are suffering from money outflows... (president interrupts speaker)
in writing. - we oppose this proposal because it gives legal or natural persons the right to claim compensation from 'an international system' and not from the competent courts.
in writing. - i am opposed to the convention on international securities for mobile equipment on matters specifically relating to railway rolling stock because it gives legal or natural persons the right to claim compensation from an 'international system' rather than from the competent courts.
in writing. i am voting against this recommendation because it effectively legitimises the various memorandum policies implemented in relation to railway rolling stock in greece.
in writing. we are voting against because it gives legal or natural persons the right to claim compensation from 'an international system' instead of the competent courts.
in writing. - we oppose this proposal because a company can impose in advance on a small trader/producer/consumer from another country that the exclusive place of settlement of their disputes will be a third country other than their home country or their place of business. by this agreement, the stronger party may, in the context of the conclusion of an agreement, impose on the weaker party a seat of jurisdiction, taking advantage of the latter's need. the seat may be in mexico or an eu country where the transition would be unprofitable for the small party or whose laws or system defend the big interests.
in writing. - i vote against the recommendation on the draft council decision approving, on behalf of the european union, the hague convention of 30 june 2005 on agreements on the extension of jurisdiction, because a company such as carrefour can impose in advance on a small farmer from greece that the exclusive place of settlement of their disputes may be a country other than greece and germany. in the past, a case could be tried in the countries involved, and the advantage was to be the first to act legally. the agreement allows the large company to require the other party to specify the place of jurisdiction during the conclusion of the agreement. the seat may be set in mexico or in an eu country to which the transition would be unprofitable for the small party or which tends, by its laws or system, to defend the big interests. with this agreement, a greek producer may not be able to bring a case in his own country.
in writing. i am voting against this recommendation because, through the proposed convention, it also legitimizes the extension of jurisdiction to loan agreements between greece and eurozone countries and between greece and the esf. this excludes the greek courts from the procedure for resolving disputes arising from the above loan agreements and confers jurisdiction on non-greek courts.
in writing. we are opposed to this proposal because it would allow a company such as carrefour, for example, to impose in advance on a small farmer from greece that the exclusive place of settlement of his disputes will be a third country, other than greece or germany. in the past, the case could only be fought in the countries involved and the advantage would be to the first to act legally. however, this agreement will enable the large company to require the other party to determine the place of jurisdiction in the context of the conclusion of the agreement. the seat could be, for example, in mexico or in an eu country where the transition would be unprofitable for the small party or whose laws or system defend the big interests. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the production of the products concerned.
in writing. - we support, although we disagree with, the economic policy of re-employment, which provides funds to training, counselling and guidance companies instead of to the displaced who need them most.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report, although i disagree with the economic policy of reintegration into employment, which provides funds for training, counselling and guidance companies, rather than for the dismissed who need them most. in addition, in this case, there are, first, subsidies to potential young entrepreneurs and, second, wage subsidies to employers who will hire unemployed people.
in writing. i abstain because, out of the total budget of this measure of eur 2 378 000, only eur 113 000 is earmarked for the implementation of this measure.
in writing. we are voting against because we disagree with the economic policy of re-employment, which provides funds to training, counselling and guidance companies instead of to the dismissed who need them most
in writing. - we support, although we disagree with, the economic policy of re-employment, which provides funds to training, counselling and guidance companies instead of to the displaced who need them most.
in writing. - i vote against the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2014/005 fr/gad, from france) although i disagree with the economic policy of reintegration into employment, which provides funds to training, counselling and guidance companies but not to the dismissed who need them immediately.
in writing. i am voting against the jäätteenmäki report because paragraph 18 of the report allocates a very low amount of resources per worker, which is only eur 1 200.
in writing. the money from the adjustment fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration companies.
in writing. - we abstain because there is indeed legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement is compatible with the provisions of the treaties (article 16) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8 and 52 (1)) concerning the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data. we also agree to seek the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties.
in writing. - i reject the opinion of the european court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the european union and canada on the transfer and processing of passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers to the canadian border services agency, because there is indeed legal uncertainty both as to whether the draft agreement is compatible with the provisions of the treaties (article 16) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8 and 52 (1)), and as to the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data. we also agree that the court of justice should be consulted on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties.
in writing. i am voting against the motion for a resolution because i consider that the draft agreement under vote is not compatible with the provisions of the tfeu (article 16) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8 and 52 (1)) as regards the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data and because it wrongly chooses articles 82 (1) (d) and 87 (2) (a) tfeu (police and judicial cooperation) as the legal basis instead of the correct one, namely article 16 tfeu (data protection).
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the resolution because it does not condemn the eu-canada pnr agreement, which is an open dossier of those travelling between eu member states and canada under the pretext of 'counter-terrorism' and 'security'. the committee supports the rejection and annulment of the agreement in question because it is a political issue which cannot be referred to the courts, much less to the court of justice of the eu, which always acts on the basis of the defence of the interests of capital.
in writing. there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement is compatible with the provisions of the treaties (article 16) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8 and 52 (1)) as regards the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data. finally, we agree with the proposal to consult the court of justice on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties.
in writing. - we are voting against because we disagree with almost the whole approach and because we do not believe that the eu should be the provider of food for the planet or that it has the right to consider itself capable of imposing its views on the whole world. we also disagree with the way many of these views are expressed.
in writing. - i am voting against the report on the eu and the global development framework for the period after 2015 because i disagree with almost the whole approach. we do not believe that the eu should be the provider of food for the planet, nor that it has the right to consider itself capable of imposing its views on the whole world. i also disagree with the way many of these views are expressed.
in writing. i vote in favour of the stier report because poverty eradication and the fight against inequalities, together with sustainable development, should be the main direction of the global development framework after 2015 and because the elimination of inequalities in access to health and education should be the overarching priorities of the post-2015 millennium development goals that this report sets out.
in writing. we disagree with almost the whole approach. we do not believe that the eu should be the world's breadwinner, nor that it has the right to consider itself capable of imposing its views on the whole world. we also disagree with the way many of these views are expressed.
in writing. - we are voting against because there are reports of continuing the 'necessary reforms and structural changes' (memorandum policy).
in writing. - i vote against the proposal on employment and the social aspects of the eu 2020 strategy because there are references to continuing the 'necessary reforms and structural changes' (memorandum policy).
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social objectives set out in the white paper are not only achieved, but that the social objectives are also achieved. the five social and labour indicators scoreboard captures the dramatic economic reality of the union but there are no tools to tackle the problems. the supposed european semester tool is proving inadequate to bring results, and things are even worse when even country specific recommendations do not exist. for example, the commission's five indicators for greece record 30% unemployment and 60% youth unemployment, the fastest declining average family income in the union, while the 20% of residents already below the poverty line are at risk of being added to by a 34% who are threatened to fall below the poverty line. at the same time, inequalities are widening dramatically, and the top 20% of the income pyramid in the country is earning six times more than the bottom 20%. what country specific recommendation has the commission made for greece to deal with this situation? memorandum countries are excluded from any version of european economic governance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution because employment and the social protection measures it proposes are particularly important objectives in the current economic climate, which is characterised by high inequalities in europe and by social dislocation in greece, where, as a result of the memorandum measures, 3.9 million greeks live below the poverty line (i.e. 35.7% compared to 27.6% in 2009).
in writing. there are clear references to continuing the 'necessary reforms and structural changes' (memorandum policy).
madam president, i would be permitted to sit in my seat and not stand because of my condition. the evidence for physical and psychological violence is overwhelming: some 13 million women report being victims of physical violence, or 7% of european women aged 18 to 74. violence against women has many faces, it knows no borders or classes, it is inflicted in cruel and ruthless ways, it is experienced within the family, in society and in recent years very often in the workplace. i personally experienced brutal violence to stop the demands of a class of people and to make their voices unheard. but now, a new wave of economic violence is reigniting in greece. an employer asked a pregnant employee to terminate her pregnancy if she wanted to have a job. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's budgetary resources are used to the full, and that the budgetary resources available are used to the full. we must respond to the violence that is so unprovoked even against motherhood with legislation in conjunction with the ratification of the council of europe convention, the well-known istanbul convention. we must create an effective legal protection framework.
in writing. it's sad that it's 2014 and we're still talking about violence against women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are protected, and that the rights of women are protected in the european union. the 25th of november should not be a day to see the problem grow but to deal with it and reduce it. the eu must focus on the first of the two approaches, prevention and repression. it is absolutely essential that the istanbul convention be ratified by all member states and that new legislation be promoted to further protect the rights of battered women. but repressive policies follow crime when it has already been committed. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry. fortunately, the phenomenon of domestic violence is the exception to the rule. we must therefore systematically ensure that there is specialised training at all stages of education, which analyses the causes of violence, the profile of perpetrators/victims and the circumstances in which violence is formed. this will create a culture against violence and a radical change in mindset.
mr president, 500 people, including 25 children, went on hunger strike yesterday, demanding that the state provide them with food, shelter, medical care and jobs. they try to move to neighbouring countries but, once they are apprehended at the border, they are returned to their country of origin. this is a common phenomenon in countries like syria, iraq, afghanistan, pakistan. but this is happening in my country, greece. the five hundred people are syrians, they have already been gathered for six days in syntagma square in athens and yesterday they began a hunger strike. so you have made greece, like other countries in southern europe, the same as the countries you accuse of being responsible for the emergence and rise of the islamic state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you've let explosives be planted on your doors and windows while you, inside your house, argue over how to share your dinner. that is what you have achieved with the dublin ii treaty. take it down! border security and stability at the borders of the european union must be your main concern. the european union has the economic power. let it use it to deal with illegal immigrants, let it deal with the problem in the countries of origin and not in the countries of entry! money knows no borders, but states do. if you continue to give weight to money, you will disappear the states. is that what you're after?
mr president, i noted another phrase in the holy father's speech this morning, that the lost gaze of these people is asking for support and acceptance. today, in my homeland, off the coast of crete, 30 nautical miles from the shore, a ship is sailing unruly with 600 souls, including many women with babies. all these people are asking for support and acceptance. it does not matter whether my country is a first country of arrival, a country of transit or a country of final destination. it is important whether we in the european union are really able to distribute asylum seekers fairly. we all know that this is primarily a matter of solidarity, but does solidarity depend - as it seems - on specific interests? i am sure, commissioner, that your report has also made it clear that there is indeed the political will to take additional measures to manage migration flows properly and to establish rules for the practical application of the principles of the european union, solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility. as you know, these principles are enshrined in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i believe that all member states should understand that migration is not a problem, that migration is an issue that affects all countries of the european union. finally, i should like to point out that it is not in line with the principles and values of the european union that solidarity should be expressed at two or more different speeds.
mr president, commissioner, i shall try to describe the problem in three words. the first word is "solidarity". solidarity with refugees from countries and from war and disaster zones, but also solidarity among european states. solidarity by force? i'm not going to. but as europeans, we pride ourselves on always finding ways to agree. so here we have a problem for which we must agree on a solution. the second word is 'rules', rules for legal economic immigration, rules which take account of both the dire needs of our aging continent and the limits of its possibilities. the third word is "time". time is something we don't have. president moraes was right to tell us that we have the tools. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we don't have is time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the directive. i am particularly pleased that in this first appearance i have the opportunity to share my thoughts on the subject of illegal immigration. as you know, this is a phenomenon that is particularly affecting the countries of the european south, which are suffering, which have been impoverished by the memoranda and by the rigid fiscal policy and which are therefore finding it difficult to cope with the enormous flows of migrants that exist. i'll stick to the issue of solidarity: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. it should depend on the size, population and gdp of the member states of the european union. greece, as you know, cannot tolerate any more illegal immigrants. the same applies to italy. the dublin iii directive should be amended. greece cannot be turned into a warehouse of souls.
mr president, commissioner, it seems that in spain we are now facing the first serious human rights violation and that is where your action must be immediate and effective. it is obvious that in ceuta and melilla there are proven and brutal violations of human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. human dignity is being trampled. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the situation itself, however, shows that we must go further, using integrated instruments, and formulate a development policy for the mediterranean, a guarantee and development policy for the region and at the same time comprehensive arrangements for migration and asylum issues. these are very important issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this cannot go on. that's why we have these phenomena.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the fact that the safety of workers is not guaranteed by the directive. businesses themselves need to understand that the health and safety of their employees significantly increases their productivity and efficiency and thus the growth of their companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am not only referring to occupational accidents, which are often caused by the lack or inadequacy of protective measures, but also to occupational diseases, which is a relatively neglected area. many workers are affected by various cancers, skin diseases, musculoskeletal problems and other diseases because of the working conditions and materials with which they come into contact. but how can prevention be possible when, because of the crisis and the policy of austerity, countries like greece are experiencing a complete collapse of their health systems? i only mention that a patient in greece, for a simple examination, faces an average waiting time of six months. so you understand that, under these circumstances, it is unrealistic to talk about prevention. prevention saves lives, but some are really only interested in the well-being of numbers and not of peoples or people. with the professional imposition of austerity, with the memoranda and with the troika's checks, the workers are simply left to their own devices.
in the european union and under capitalism, the health, safety and life of workers are seen as costs and sacrificed on the altar of profit. law enforcement is relaxed, inspection services are abolished, employers are acquitted of work accidents and worker murders, workers are blackmailed into silence about working conditions and accidents, workers are blamed for their own hospitalization and rehabilitation, living on disability benefits-a joke. hundreds are the murdered, disabled workers in shipyards, factories, transport in greece. pregnant women are threatened with dismissal for terminating their pregnancies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. hundreds of thousands die in the union from occupational diseases and thousands are killed in accidents every year. the safety, health and life of workers is a top priority for the labour movement and the communists who demand strict legislation on preventive measures and rehabilitation of disabled and occupational patients with the sole burden of the state and the employer, imposition of penalties on those responsible and provision of adequate pensions to the families of the victims.
mr president, the issue of health and safety at work is a very important one and has been a concern of society for many years. first of all, it has a human dimension because health is an important, capital good for the individual himself. it also has an economic dimension because if the legislation adopted is not respected by all, it gives various undertakings the opportunity to distort competition and to have lower costs. it should also be noted that failure to comply with health and safety rules at work also creates increased costs for the health systems of the member states themselves, an important factor to be taken into account in particular in those countries whose policies have been affected by the memoranda and the measures imposed on them.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the stress tests of banks have shown that the majority of the european union's systemic banks can cope even with adverse economic scenarios. the stress tests of european society, however, show that europe is full of armies of unemployed and poor people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in greece in particular, the old shareholders still remain in the management of the greek systemic banks, although they hold a minority of the shares. mr president, since the start of the crisis, 1.6 trillion euros have been allocated to bank rescues. the banks were saved but at the same time the public debt increased. in some countries, such as cyprus, depositors have also paid the fine, in what is known as bail in. then, after the banks were bailed out, it was the turn of the borrowers and thousands of houses were put on the market in spain, the south, greece. the main problem is the treatment of red loans, and this must be dealt with immediately. at the same time, banks do not inject liquidity into the real economy to support smes. these are the issues that need immediate attention.
mr president, i would like to support amendment no 4, namely the international dimension of sanctions. i have the impression that european banks operating in the united states operate under a stricter regulatory and administrative framework than american banks operating in the european union. this may create unequal conditions of competition in a globalised banking market and may act as an incentive for the us side to impose excessive fines. reading the international press, one can find such cases. i think that this amendment is a step in the right direction. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. i think we should also say good things about lord hill because he moves with characteristic ease and efficiency. i also believe that the members of the economic committee responsible for all these manipulations have also proved their good quality. i therefore see a positive message in a european union that is being tested and questioned.
the european central bank, as we know, plays a decisive role in the conduct of monetary policy, and with very greatly increased responsibilities. at the same time, it has now acquired enormous supervisory powers and even controls the 130 systemic banks which hold 81% of the total assets of the banking sector. but it is also a creditor of the states, because it has already bought on the secondary market, and at a discount, state bonds worth at least eur 217 billion. at the same time, he is a member of the troika, acting as a purported technical adviser. we have a conflict of interest and an over-empowered european central bank without the corresponding political awe of it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr juncker, unfortunately the famous package of 300 billion euros you promised us on 15 july is empty. it's a drop in the bucket. what have you presented to us? the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. not a single euro of fresh money. he promised us you'd achieve leverage 15 times, one to 15. there is not a single economist in the world who believes that, in conditions of economic stagnation, with the risk of a new recession in the euro zone and the risk of deflation, it is possible to leverage capital 15 times. even the finance ministers who support you and are part of the groups that say 'long live the junker package!' tell you that fresh money is needed, that new capital is needed. the history of the world economy teaches that in times of stagnation or even recession, without strong public resources, there can be no turnaround in growth. mr verhofstadt said that investment in the eurozone after the crisis is 15 times lower, while in the united states it is more. why would you do that? because that's where they put money. because there the bank played a developmental role while you here do not change the tools. mr juncker, at one point you proposed that part of the 500 billion euros of the esm should be used, but as soon as mr schäuble said no and vetoed the german proposal, you forgot about it. can you tell us something about this proposal? and because you mentioned the children from thessaloniki, my home town, your policy with the troika has caused a recession of 25%, unemployment of 30%, unemployment among young people of 60%, a humanitarian crisis. your famous package is business as usual, in a logic of german-occupied europe and harsh unilateral austerity.
in writing. the so-called 'investment package', with the creation of an investment fund, presented to the european parliament today by commission president juncker, seeks to provide additional capital to business groups to make investments, with public funding, to increase their profitability. this funding will come from the even greater plundering of the working people's income. the bourgeois political staff, all of them, submitted to the demands of capital, demanded the continuation of the "structural reforms", that is, the working people continue to bleed to create an "attractive environment" for the monopolies, with a hardworking workforce, without labor and social security rights. in the same capitalist management role, syriza, in the debate, after extolling the "development" policy of the us federal bank, protested why money to "healthy entrepreneurs" is little, demanding more "fresh" money for profitable investments of the monopolies.
in writing. the so-called 'investment package', with the creation of an investment fund, presented to the european parliament today by commission president juncker, seeks to provide additional capital to business groups to make investments, with public funding, to increase their profitability. this funding will come from the even greater plundering of the working people's income. the bourgeois political staff, all of them, submitted to the demands of capital, demanded the continuation of the "structural reforms", that is, the working people continue to bleed to create an "attractive environment" for the monopolies, with a hardworking workforce, without labor and social security rights. in the same capitalist management role, syriza, in the debate, after extolling the "development" policy of the us federal bank, protested why money to "healthy entrepreneurs" is little, demanding more "fresh" money for profitable investments of the monopolies.
in writing. - with regard to the amendment of regulation 2533/98 as regards the ecb's ability to collect economic information from 'data reporting units', financial institutions, markets and infrastructures, we are voting against it because this regulation grants too many privileges and powers to the ecb and undermines the ability of any national government in the future to pursue an independent national economic policy.
in writing. - i am voting against the report on the draft council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2533/98 on the collection of statistical information by the european central bank, because this regulation grants too many privileges and powers to the ecb and undermines the ability of any national government in the future to pursue an independent national economic policy.
in writing. — the amendments proposed in this report are in the correct line; however, we should not underestimate the importance of non-delivery of accurate information from the banks. we should underscore, though, that non-compliance with the delivery of data may be either inadvertent or deliberate. deliberate misinformation or deliberate delay of information must be treated with severe retaliation from the regulatory authorities.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the gualtieri report because i believe that the european central bank should be aware of the statistical data it needs to carry out its tasks.
in writing. this regulation grants too many privileges and powers to the ecb and undermines the ability of any national government in the future to pursue an independent national economic policy.
in writing. - the proposed amendments promote a more specific way of operating and a wider range of responsibilities for the ecb vis-à-vis the respective national authorities of the member states. we are opposed to this plan because the extension of the role and powers of the ecb to the eu member states limits the national and economic sovereignty of the respective states. the ecb should assist the member states and not bypass them.
in writing. - i am voting against the report on the draft council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2532/98 on the powers of the european central bank to impose sanctions, because the extension of the role and powers of the ecb to the eu member states limits the national and economic sovereignty of the respective states. the ecb should assist the member states and not bypass them.
in writing. - it is of paramount importance for the ecb to impose sanctions on banks not complying with the regulations. however, the sanctions should distinguish between systemic and minor banks. furthermore this distinction implies that, if the sanctions imposed on too-big-to-fail banks are not significant proportionally to their size, the proclaimed sanctions will not deter them from complying with the regulation. this window of opportunity for banks inclined to violate the regulations should close.
in writing. i am voting against the swinburne report because the european central bank has become a state within a state in the european union and is acquiring enormous supervisory powers, while at the same time, as a member of the troika and creditor of the eu member states, it is acting in a way that creates a conflict of interest within itself in the exercise of its functions.
in writing. the extension of the ecb's role and powers to eu member states limits the national and economic sovereignty of the respective states. the ecb should assist the member states and not bypass them.
in writing. - we consider that this motion for a resolution, although it contains a number of positive elements, is moving in the wrong direction. in our view, this resolution is promoting the interests of industries and businesses which will be encouraged to go green with the money of european taxpayers. the commission has also been pushing a policy towards developing countries which wants the eu to support countries outside its territory financially to reduce their pollution, emissions of harmful gases, etc., while the eu could not even have trade relations with countries which sacrifice the environment on the altar of 'development'. in addition, we consider it hypocritical that the eu should be concerned with reducing emissions in third countries at a time when the environment in eu member states such as greece is being destroyed by exhaust gas, fog, illegal and legal landfills and fires.
in writing. - we all recognize that it exists and we're all witnessing climate change. we all recognize that this is caused by emissions of carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide. we agree with the declarations. but what do we propose? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so whatever we say, it's just empty words, nice words and wishes. the positive vote is not enough. we must ask ourselves how we can get off the road to destruction. otherwise, we agree to our condemnation. what is to be done? we must not forget that man is a creature of nature. it can't make laws of nature, it can only exploit those that exist. we are neither above nature, nor below nature, nor outside nature. the european union should set an example by abolishing conventional energy sources and by exploiting soft and renewable sources. otherwise we're fooling ourselves.
in writing. i am voting against this motion for a resolution because action must be taken on climate change, which is a direct threat to human societies, particularly to the poorest of our fellow men, creates new migratory flows, depletes water resources and destroys the planet's flora.
in writing. there is talk of giving money to third countries for development, of giving incentives to energy-intensive large industries to reduce their emissions and, in total, of giving $100 billion to the green climate fund by 2020.
mr president, at the moment certain parliaments in european countries are taking decisions to recognise the palestinian state. the communist party of greece supports the just demand of the palestinian people for the recognition of the palestinian state as a member state of the un and for the recognition of the palestinian state by the government and parliament of our country. the kke's position is that the struggle for the end of the israeli occupation and the creation of an independent, viable and sovereign palestinian state in the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital, must be intensified. the unacceptable wall must also be torn down, the political prisoners released, the settlements terminated and the settlers withdrawn, with all palestinian refugees returning to their homes. in any case, we note that it is at least contradictory that there are countries which recognize the palestinian state while at the same time supporting the logic of the equation of offender and victim and upgrading their political, economic and military relations with israel, either within the framework of the european union or at bilateral level. it is a position which arms the hand of israel, which continues its attacks on the palestinians, which expands settlements and oppresses the palestinian people. we express the internationalist solidarity and support of the communist party of greece in the just struggle of the palestinian people.
mr president, the european union's reckless and subversive policy has been sealed by the recent tragic events in gaza. today, the union seems to be taking a substantial step forward, albeit some 60 years behind schedule. the recognition of the state of palestine creates a new status and binding commitments for the european union. the film is a comedy about a young man who is forced to move to a small town in the south of the united states to escape the violence of the vietnam war, and his family, who are forced to flee to the united states to escape the violence of the vietnam war.
mr president, the un general assembly in 2012 approved the upgrade of the palestinian authority to an observer state. this upgrading of palestine's international status from an entity to a non-un member state, a status analogous to that of the vatican, gave palestine a de facto birthright. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. there is no doubt that justice is on the side of the palestinians, who are fighting, though not always in the most sophisticated ways, for the right to a homeland of their own, even if it has now shrunk to 22% of its original size. many experts have tried all this time to find solutions to stop the slaughter at some point; in vain. the war effort, instead of diminishing, is increasing. but the palestinians deserve a state of their own, and this is not my observation, but the demand of 135 countries which have recognized that state. many years after the fall of the berlin wall, it is, if anything, foolish to discuss today whether we will continue to allow israeli policy in the gaza strip. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of the genocide it has suffered, and it must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of the genocide it has suffered. history is repeated, not as a faithful copy, but as a reminder of the respect that people should have for one another.
question of the day: blue card. mr president, i would like to ask the honourable member when he began to believe that occupation can be a factor of peace in a region and when he began to believe that resistance can be called terrorism, the resistance of a people against the occupation imposed on it by another people.
mr president, the 25th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child is a milestone in the continuation of a long-running struggle which has made important achievements in the field of the protection of children's rights. it is also a time of intense reflection, because we cannot remain silent about the fact that even today, 25 years later, there are still children, in every corner of the world, but unfortunately also in europe, who are deprived of their fundamental rights and are subject to sexual harassment, trafficking, illegal employment and victims of all kinds of racial discrimination. the economic crisis is added to this picture. in countries like my own, greece, the crisis has plunged hundreds of thousands of children into poverty with dramatic consequences: deprivation of food, clothing and access to health care and education, if we take into account the most recent unicef report published a month ago. we're talking about children who mature before their age in an unnatural way. i think that no one doubts that europe is a place of democracy, equality, justice, solidarity, principles and values, but i wonder how we can be proud when we have not yet succeeded, using our legislative tools, in providing full and comprehensive legal protection for the most vulnerable and most vulnerable group in society, for those who continue our work, for children, for those who are victims of crimes, criminal acts and social exclusion. my fellow citizens, let us think, as we have a duty and a duty, and let us act with this in mind: if we could ask them, would they ever choose to have these children born if they knew they would live under such tragic conditions?
mr president, the un has adopted the convention on the rights of the child since 1989, but the situation in many countries is still dramatic. in greece in particular, and because of the memoranda imposed by the troika, according to a unicef report, the average family income of households with children has sunk to 1998 levels. child poverty has worsened, from 23% in 2008 to 40% in 2012, and the country now ranks second to last among oecd countries in terms of the percentage of young people not in education and employment. at the same time, according to a survey by the greek statistical authority, the percentages of households in the country that are unable to provide basic goods to their children increased dramatically during the five-year period 2009-2013. particularly acute are the problems faced by families with three children and many children. the greek people have thus been impoverished by the memoranda and there are now widespread violations of the rights of the child in greece.
madam president, the g20's commitment to work towards boosting growth and economic resilience is now highly timely. it is timely not only because growth, both globally and in europe, is very weak and still weaker than expected, but also because president juncker, a few hours ago, presented here the €315 billion investment plan for europe. it is an ambitious project which, if properly implemented, has the potential to achieve the desired objective of creating more than one million new jobs within the next three years without burdening europe with debt. it is a plan that needs to be explained, and in detail, because details matter and the devil is sometimes in the details: the commission must tell us how the 315 billion euro is obtained because the multiplier is extremely ambitious, since it reaches 15 through the leverage of capital. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. president juncker said today that countries in crisis have priority. the first country to suffer the most serious effects of the crisis is greece. what procedure will be followed to ensure that these countries are the first to benefit from the programmes coming from the new fund? it is necessary to maintain and exploit the commission's initiative because it is very important and because it is a direct response to the g20 commitment. we also need to be given immediate clarification on how the commission and the european investment bank will proceed with regard to new and innovative financial instruments. what's this? it is a very important part of the new investment plan and we must know, not because we are against the commission's initiative, but because we must put pressure, we must work to build confidence and to reduce risk. it is clear that the new plan has a very basic and ambitious objective: to change the image of europe. we have no time left in europe, as the g20 declaration says, and even more so in the countries affected by the crisis.
madam president, commissioner, i have already said in this chamber that the competitiveness of the european economy must not be based on the chineseisation of wages. it must be based on the knowledge economy, investment, education, new technologies and innovation. the digital single market which we are discussing here today requires investment in the development of information and communication technologies. so far, the funds invested in this area in the european union have been less than those invested in the united states and japan. the investment programme announced today by mr de gucht, the president of the commission, is a very important step forward.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the world economic crisis has seriously affected the steel industry in the european union. the stagnation of industrial production and the collapse of the construction sector in the european union now make the future of the steel industry uncertain. this is particularly true in the south of europe, where thousands of people are being laid off and steelworks are closing. in greece, domestic demand for steel products has returned to the level of 1962 and redundancies are on the agenda, as was the case in the greek steel industry. hellenic steel sa in thessaloniki is in danger of being closed down and put into liquidation following the decision of the italian parent company, which has been placed under the supervision of the italian government. this, my italian friends, is proof of the economic interdependence of the european union and the need to establish a single platform for the countries of the european south.
mr president, what is true in general is also true in the steel industry: the european union has only one objective, to make the concentration of capital a reality so that its monopolies become even more powerful in global competition. the victims of industry restructuring are workers whose wages are being cut and who are being laid off by the thousands in greece, italy, belgium, france and elsewhere because steel mills are being closed by intra-industry competition or are relocating factories to countries with cheaper labour. in greece, the hellenic steelworks in thessaloniki is closing, but the european commission, when asked by the communist party of greece (kke), defiantly replies that it does not interfere in business decisions. it is intervening, however, to give subsidies, tax breaks, cheap electricity to steelworks, when thousands of households have no electricity because they cannot afford it, when steelworkers in greece are being sentenced for working late to get their wages paid. the greek government and the troika, having in mind the benefit of the monopolies that concentrate production, are closing down the defense industry elbo in thessaloniki, an industry of strategic importance for the country's defense at a particularly critical time. there is no solution within the european union as long as the monopolies are at the helm of the economy. the steelworkers and the working class must lead the fight against them so that the wealth they produce can become the property of the people.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on child malnutrition in developing countries, by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development (o-000083/2014 - 2014/2853(rsp - b6-0041/2014).
mr president, commissioner, the nutritional status of children under five is one of the indicators of family well-being and one of the determinants of child survival. child malnutrition is one of the most important causes of infant and child mortality. it can adversely affect the child's intellectual development and, consequently, his health and productivity in later life. it is also one of the criteria recommended by the world health organization for assessing health equality. unfortunately for europe, it will also have to include new areas of malnutrition that are suffering from the effects of austerity policies to deal with the economic crisis. as we speak, in greece, children are fainting in school during class time because of malnutrition. thousands of greek families, with zero income due to unemployment, cannot provide for their children. children go to school fasting. teachers and professors, on their meager salaries due to commemorative cuts, give money to the cafeterias to offer discreet snacks to children who they know cannot afford to buy. but these, out of pride or even shame, refuse to accept it. instead of giving our children the quality of life they deserve, we are bringing european countries to the living conditions of sub-saharan africa through the wrong policies and the wrong economic measures.
mr president, the title of this report, child malnutrition, is a revealing confession. we all agree that there are children who are malnourished. everything that's been heard, all the findings are correct. but it's not enough to just find out. we need to get to the cause. why is malnutrition occurring, especially among children? the reason is the system that has its god in money. let's not be too blind. the system is the capitalist regime, it is the global authoritarian regime, it is the g8-20, it is the regime of wars against peoples, nations, citizens, it is the regime of arms manufacture and arms trade. i was surprised the pope didn't launch a campaign against gun control yesterday. the working population, say the scientists, if there were no such system, would only need to work one minute a day to meet all its needs and put an end to this situation.
mr president, child malnutrition is spreading rapidly as global poverty increases. malnutrition, due to merkel's austerity, is now affecting children in the european south. in greece, the troika and the memoranda have created a huge humanitarian crisis. 40% of the population is below the poverty line and the unemployed have reached 1.5 million. according to unicef, more than 439,000 children live below the poverty line. child poverty reached 40.5% in 2012 and the situation is tragic, especially for families with many children. the incidents of fainting children in greek schools due to hunger are frequent. the only solution, commissioner, is to abolish the memoranda and to reverse the policy of austerity.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 27 november 2014 at 12.00. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the blasphemy laws in pakistan (2014/2696 ((rsp))
mr president, in a few moments we shall be called upon to decide the fate of dr šešelj, a man who has been in prison for twelve years as a political prisoner, not for what he did but for what he said, that is, for his ideas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you will answer me "no, because this is not a democracy". we greek nationalists, however, will unfortunately answer you with a "yes". the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. "judicial arbitrariness following a government policy mandate", you'll say, and i'll agree with you. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a party to the convention on human rights since the beginning of the century.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would ask you to give me one minute and ten seconds, as you did for all the other members, precisely because there are no two speedy members in this chamber. i would ask you to spare me the time, mr president. i have been in this parliament for five months and in that time we have passed resolutions condemning the violence and the killing of civilians, children, women, religious minorities. we have passed resolutions condemning only the effects and not the causes and policies that cause them. the resolution we are debating today is about iraq. ladies and gentlemen, we have bombed it, we have invaded it, we have demolished it and now we ask that the chaos we have created be respected for human life and human rights. we'll leave with the peace of mind that we've done our duty. only when we decide to call it what it is! a liter of oil: how many lives? an ounce of gold, how many lives? one cubic meter of gas: how many lives? one unit on the stock exchange: how many lives? only when we answer these questions honestly, only then will it perhaps be worthwhile to hope for the women and the people of iraq, syria, palestine, afghanistan, libya and ukraine. the list is long, ladies and gentlemen. and it will grow as long as we continue to feel small and act like it.
mr president, as you know, i voted against mr juncker for president of the commission because, as a representative of europe's old political world and for many years president of the eurogroup, he is responsible for the memoranda, for the humanitarian crisis in greece and for the shameful debt that has been placed on the shoulders of the greek people. the revelation of junckergate now makes mr juncker's removal doubly necessary. i therefore voted against the motion of censure against the commission tabled by mr zanni and the five star movement in order to get rid of juncker and his entourage. the fact that the motion of censure was also signed by members of the far right, with whom we are opposed and separated by a political and ideological abyss, cannot be an alibi for not voting in favour of the motion of censure, since the main stake is the dismissal of juncker. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. we are voting against because the revelations have only confirmed what we already believed, namely that juncker is unfit to be president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i vote against the motion of censure against the commission. the revelations have only confirmed what i already believed, that juncker is unfit to be president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. in the vote of 27 november 2014, i chose to abstain. i would like to express my opposition to the two main lines which were formulated in the plenary: on the one hand, i did not want to identify myself with the group of meps who hypocritically promoted the motion of censure, namely the far-right national front of france in alliance with nationalist-eurosceptics from the unregistered. on the other hand, i would like to express my radical opposition to the cover-up of the luxleaks tax evasion scandal which is being levelled at the president of the commission by the majority of the largest groups in the european parliament voting against the proposal. like all the members of the european left group, gue/ngl, i am in favour of a thorough investigation of the scandal by a committee of inquiry and of legislation to prevent tax competition between member states and to punish tax evasion scandals severely.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament, following the revelations of tax evasion in luxembourg during the juncker presidency, has from the outset pointed out the responsibilities not only of juncker but of the eu as a whole, which serves the profitability of capital in every way. the kke voted against the commission and its president in their election, as it did with all previous eu committees, declaring that it simultaneously votes against the whole of the eu's anti-people policy and opposes this transnational imperialist union as a whole. in view of this, the kke did not participate in the disorientating voting process for a resolution tabled by mainly nationalist, racist and fascist political forces of the bourgeois arc. these forces, on the one hand, appear provocatively to protest against the tax exemptions for companies, while on the other hand they are exploiting the eu and the anti-working class strategy of competitiveness and profitability of business groups, to which the authors of the resolution are bowing, by calling for the same measures in favour of capital.
in writing. - gue/ngl was the first political group to propose a motion of censure in the plenary against juncker for luxembourg's tax havens. this proposal was not limited to what was revealed about luxembourg, but focused on the causes that give rise to such phenomena and are none other than the neoliberal system itself, which, while producing and relying on them, hypocritically "discovers" them. it is well known that the same tactics as luxembourg are being followed by other countries in the eu's hardline neoliberal core. for these very reasons, the greens and s&d refused to co-sign the motion, thus covering both juncker and these policies, and the system they serve. the proposal put to the vote, supported by far-right meps, serves exactly the same purpose: to treat the luxembourg phenomenon as an isolated and 'autogenous' phenomenon and not as a dominant derivative and pillar of the neoliberal system and those who serve it. i refuse to take sides in such false dilemmas.
in writing. it is necessary, even now, to react, to investigate all cases and to close immediately and effectively all tax evasion windows on european territory. the automatic exchange of information on taxation is essential. it is clearly unacceptable to ask citizens living in countries in crisis such as greece to pay unbearable taxes, when at the same time, in prosperous countries, giant companies do not pay their fair share of taxes. everyone must comply and pay if they have broken the law. but why is the political weakening of juncker now being launched when all this was known long before he was elected? a few days before the vote to elect him president of the commission, the financial times had published all the information that is being repeated today. juncker is the first commission president to be elected by the european parliament after the european electorate has voted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. i voted against the motion of censure, of course, but i had already taken it for granted that the extreme voices of the efdd and mrs le pen would not have the power to lead the juncker commission to the exit.
in writing. the revelations have only confirmed what we already believed, namely that juncker is unfit to be president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament, following the revelations of tax evasion in luxembourg during the juncker presidency, has from the outset pointed out the responsibilities not only of juncker but of the eu as a whole, which serves the profitability of capital in every way. the kke voted against the commission and its president in their election, as it did with all previous eu committees, declaring that it simultaneously votes against the whole of the eu's anti-people policy and opposes this transnational imperialist union as a whole. in view of this, the kke did not participate in the disorientating voting process for a resolution tabled by mainly nationalist, racist and fascist political forces of the bourgeois arc. these forces, on the one hand, appear provocatively to protest against the tax exemptions for companies, while on the other hand they are exploiting the eu and the anti-working class strategy of competitiveness and profitability of business groups, to which the authors of the resolution are bowing, by calling for the same measures in favour of capital.
in writing. that regulation provides for a detailed procedure for setting up a single resolution mechanism in the form of a union body. the mechanism will be designed to help credit institutions and certain companies in the participating member states to recover, but above all it will have its own budget, so that taxpayers' money is not spent, because this will protect financial stability without burdening the taxpayers of the member states.
in writing. - i vote against the commission's delegated regulation on the temporary system of advances against contributions to cover the administrative costs of the single resolution board during the transitional period, because i believe that this will protect financial stability without burdening the taxpayers of the member states.
in writing. i am voting against this regulation because i do not agree with the temporary system of advances against contributions to cover the administrative costs of the single resolution board during the transitional period.
in writing. financial stability must be protected without imposing a burden on member states' taxpayers.
in writing. the commission must take up its responsibilities and promote solutions to the problems encountered. the eu wants to be called an economic union and so it should, if nothing else, prove this by giving timely solutions to economic issues.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the reports on the delays in the launch of cohesion policy 2014-2020 because the commission must take up its responsibilities and promote solutions to the problems presented. the eu wants to be called an economic union and so it should, if nothing else, prove this by giving timely solutions to economic issues.
in writing. i am voting against this motion for a resolution because it criticises the delay in launching cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, since, among other things, the operational programmes could already alleviate the enormous social impact that the troika mandates and the subsequent measures of the memorandum of co-government have caused in greece.
in writing. we are in the transition phase between the previous and the new programming period in terms of the implementation of cohesion policy. in addition to the delays in payments for the closing period, there are unfortunately also significant delays in the process of approving the operational programmes to implement cohesion policy at a particularly critical time, especially for countries affected by the crisis and lacking sufficient national resources to implement a development policy. in a recent report, the international employment organisation announced that in order for greece to regain some of the lost ground it would need to boost employment through flagship co-financed actions. the forecast for when greece will recover employment to pre-crisis levels is 2034. i am therefore particularly concerned about the delay in the launching of cohesion policy, which will obviously have a major impact on the difficult task of boosting european economies. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. the commission must take up its responsibilities and promote solutions to the problems encountered. the eu wants to be called an economic union and so it should, if nothing else, prove this by giving timely solutions to economic issues.
in writing. although we are not against the resolution as a whole, which for the most part improves a rather bad situation, we are against it because it creates institutions totally free of parliamentary control and, moreover, because it reduces the possibility of self-government of the member states. the conclusion drawn from the experience of the various independent authorities so far is that they are not really independent and that the lack of direct political control leads to their being controlled by means of practices which are unacceptable to us.
in writing. - while i am not opposed to the resolution as a whole, which for the most part improves a rather bad situation, i do not agree with the commission's impact assessment guidelines and i am opposed to them because they create institutions totally free of parliamentary control and, moreover, because they limit the possibility of self-government of the member states. the conclusion drawn from the experience of the various independent authorities so far is that they are not really independent and that the lack of direct political control leads to their being controlled by means of practices which are unacceptable to us.
in writing. i am voting against the motion for a resolution because the evaluation of the impact of european legislation is an important activity and because in this resolution, among other things, it is accepted that the commission will also examine the impact of the measures being adopted on smes.
in writing. although we are not opposed to the resolution as a whole, which for the most part improves a rather bad situation, we are opposed to it because it creates institutions totally free of parliamentary control and, moreover, because it limits the possibility of self-government of the member states. the conclusion drawn from the experience of the various independent authorities so far is that they are not really independent and that the lack of direct political control leads to their being controlled by means of practices which are unacceptable to us.
in writing. we are opposed to this motion for a resolution because it deals with the sexual identity of children, because it deals with the national integration of the roma and alleged discrimination against this minority and also because it deals with the participation of children in parliamentary activities and in the decision-making process. it also called on the commission to protect children where necessary through humanitarian aid and funding. we judge that children have no sexual identity, at least not different from the one they were born with. we believe that there is no discrimination against roma, but discrimination by roma against europeans. we also consider that the attempt to integrate the roma into the national community is contrary to the interests of this minority and to the interests of the peoples of europe. we are defending the right and the need of each people to protect its identity.
in writing. - i am voting against this motion for a resolution because it deals with the sexual identity of children, because it deals with the national integration of the roma and alleged discrimination against this minority and also because it deals with the participation of children in parliamentary activities and in the decision-making process. it also called on the commission to protect children where necessary through humanitarian aid and funding. we judge that children have no sexual identity, at least not different from the one they were born with. we believe that there is no discrimination against roma, but discrimination by roma against europeans. we also consider that the attempt to integrate the roma into the national community is contrary to the interests of this minority and to the interests of the peoples of europe. we are defending the right and the need of each people to protect its identity.
in writing. i am voting against the motion for a resolution because it is aimed at protecting the rights of the child worldwide and in particular in the countries of the european south.
in writing. the motion for a resolution in question refers to the sexual identity of children. it refers to the national integration of the roma and alleged discrimination against this minority and also speaks of the participation of children in parliamentary activities and in the decision-making process. we judge that children have no sexual identity, at least not different from the one they were born with. we believe that there is no discrimination against roma, but discrimination by roma against europeans. we also consider that the attempt to integrate the roma into the national community is contrary to the interests of this minority and to the interests of the peoples of europe. we are defending the right and the need of each people to protect its identity.
in writing. we are voting against, as we are against any text which restricts the member states' ability to define their markets. we also vote against it because it allows governments, under the guise of protecting minors, to attack their political opponents by labelling their websites as dangerous, as we have seen firsthand in greece.
in writing. - i am opposed to the reports on the digital single market, as i am opposed to any text which restricts the member states' ability to define their markets. i also vote against them because they allow governments, under the guise of protecting minors, to attack their political opponents by labelling their websites as dangerous, as we have seen firsthand in greece.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution because it opens the way for the eu to rely on the knowledge economy, investment in education, new technologies and innovation, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. the kke group voted against the joint resolution of the people's party and the social democrats on the digital single market because it regards the new technologies sector as a golden field for the profits of monopolies and because it promotes its further handover to business groups. the disorienting discussion about a so-called 'pledge resolution' to specific monopoly groups, as well as the overall content of the resolution, expresses the fierce struggle between monopoly giants and sections of capital operating in the digital technology sector, competing for dominance in the sector and maximising their profits. these developments, initiated by the eu, bourgeois governments and the parties of capital and the euro-mainstreet, are at the expense of workers, because it is they who will continue, either to pay a high price for access to digital technologies, or to remain completely cut off from them, or to be the prey of the use of these technologies for surveillance and filing by state, employer and other mechanisms. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. we are opposed to any text which restricts the member states' ability to define their markets. we also disagree because it allows governments, under the guise of protecting minors, to attack their political opponents by labeling their websites as dangerous, as we have seen firsthand in greece.
in writing. the kke group voted against the joint resolution of the people's party and the social democrats on the digital single market because it regards the new technologies sector as a golden field for the profits of monopolies and because it promotes its further handover to business groups. the disorienting discussion about a so-called 'pledge resolution' to specific monopoly groups, as well as the overall content of the resolution, expresses the fierce struggle between monopoly giants and sections of capital operating in the digital technology sector, competing for dominance in the sector and maximising their profits. these developments, initiated by the eu, bourgeois governments and the parties of capital and the euro-mainstreet, are at the expense of workers, because it is they who will continue, either to pay a high price for access to digital technologies, or to remain completely cut off from them, or to be the prey of the use of these technologies for surveillance and filing by state, employer and other mechanisms. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. we are voting against because, although we agree that the problem of malnutrition is of paramount importance and that solving it could help to tackle other problems, such as illegal immigration, we are nevertheless unable to support the financing of third countries when greece is in the throes of the memorandum, when it has been treated with hostility by many other member states and when there are hundreds of thousands of malnourished children in our country but the eu is indifferent to this.
in writing. - i am voting against report b8-0253/2014 because, although i agree that the problem of malnutrition is of paramount importance and that its possible solution can also help to tackle other problems, such as illegal immigration, i am unable to support the funding of third countries when greece is in the grip of the memorandum, when it has been confronted with hostility by many other member states and when there are hundreds of thousands of malnourished children in my country but the eu does not care about it.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution because it is helping to take measures to stop the spread of child malnutrition, not only in the developing countries but also in greece, where the troika and the memoranda have caused a huge humanitarian crisis with 40% of the population living below the poverty line and 1.5 million unemployed.
in writing. we agree that the problem of malnutrition is of paramount importance and that solving it could help to tackle other problems, such as illegal immigration, but we cannot support funding from third countries when greece is in the throes of the memorandum, when it has been treated with hostility by many other member states and when there are hundreds of thousands of malnourished children in our country but the eu is indifferent to this.
mr president, 1100 kindergartens with 5500 children in greece are in danger of not functioning because of a lack of supplies. and while this is the situation and while the commission should have dealt specifically with this and other similar issues that are plaguing the peoples of europe, jean-claude junker, as the european union's high representative, has tried to steer the greek parliament by unacceptable, unethical and undemocratic interventions. what right does he have to rush things ? is it because he now has co-pilot aides? i'm informing him that he won't be able to do it. the greek people themselves will be in power the day after tomorrow.
a proposal for a council decision to accede to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora will be adopted in the coming days. the need to vote in favour of the proposal becomes apparent when one realizes that since the early 1970s, people, for commercial gain, have been caught up in an inexplicable mania for destroying many species of plants and animals that are in danger of disappearing from the planet. it is estimated that by 2020 about 10,000,000 of these plants and animals will have disappeared. if we add to this the loss of animals, mainly due to man's destruction of forests, pastures, coral reefs and pollution of the seas, which is also man-made, then this number of animals is near the tragic limit. the european union is therefore faced with a very important challenge, which it must successfully meet. it starts with the best intentions. but he asks: will it succeed in curbing the hitherto uncontrolled activity of legal and illegal traders of these species? will he be able to control the trade of these items via the internet? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in the medium term. i hope we succeed in this endeavour.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species of fish. there are thousands of species protected by cites and through this convention we can hit the smugglers and the various circles that profit from the trade in endangered animals. the role of the convention is therefore positive and i believe that the european union should accede to it. the way in which the european union's accession will be carried out must, however, fully respect the responsibilities of the member states within the scope of the treaty. at the same time, this should also apply in the future, and the commission should not try to indirectly extend the powers of the european union to the detriment of the powers of the member states, as it usually does. the commission must therefore be under constant control and accountable to the european parliament. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
answer is "blue card". i would like to point out to the honourable member that the responsibilities of the european union are specific and defined, as are the responsibilities of the member states. i therefore pointed out that the european union could accede, exercising its competences within the scope of the treaty on european union. i have therefore stressed that the commission cannot and must not try to indirectly extend its powers to other areas to the detriment of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's shipping traffic is not compromised. and it is crucial because so many lives are lost every year on the roads because safety rules are not followed. there are unconscious drivers but mostly there are companies that have trucks that really don't have tires. their tyres are worn; they're in bad shape. they're like carnival trucks. i should tell you that recently, on ignatia road, a truck with a romanian driver and owned by a romanian company crashed into over 30 cars. we had three dead. we had 30 wounded. so this is a very serious issue, because they don't follow safety rules and they don't have their businesses properly structured, and they keep their cars clean to make a profit. this is the key element, and you should also see the social dumping, which is also an important dimension, which the other colleagues gave a moment ago.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, euro-mediterranean cooperation can be mutually beneficial for the countries on both sides of the mediterranean, particularly in the area of research and innovation, which is the subject of prima and which can contribute to economic growth, job creation and the reduction of immigration to the european union. prima is concerned with food and water programmes. it's about health and the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. what are the effects of hydrolysis on mediterranean waters? we have no information on this matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, greece is facing a brutal attack of terrorism against its people by the european union institutions themselves, because of the upcoming elections. i am speaking here to the brutal blackmailers of european citizens. those who are so dedicated to democracy that overnight they remove elected governments and put bankers in their place. the same people who deceived the europeans in the european elections with the slogan 'your vote - our action' and today threaten them with the consequences of their vote. i am addressing mr juncker, the host of the 'legitimate' tax evaders, who dares to tell the greek people what to vote, and i am asking him to tell us the amounts that companies have stolen from the greek citizens. i would ask mrs merkel, a preacher of austerity and morality, to give us the names of those who were hired by the german companies siemens, rheinmetall and others in greece to do their jobs. the greek people accept neither intimidation nor threats. the course of your partners, who have brought him to his knees to please you, is prescribed and their overthrow is now a given.
question of the day: blue card. madam president, the two speakers of the european people's party have spoken to us about the need to respect the agreed rules of economic governance. but they seem to miss the fact that in european law, in addition to the rules of economic governance, there are also rules of rights - for example the charter of fundamental rights - which are violated through the alleged application of economic governance, which, instead of also leading to debt sustainability, leads to ever more debt and ever more violation of social rights. so i ask you: can we sacrifice social rights on the altar of a so-called fiscal consolidation?
madam president, more profit for fewer and stronger, more permanent unemployment and poverty for more, with the tools of the stability pact, the european semester, the 'coincidental' and 'coincidental' measures, the eu 2020 strategy. it's not a mistake or a temporary necessity. it is the reason for the european union. you need unemployment and flexible working for cheap wages. wages crumbling to the profits you subsidize with new capital, wild taxes, theft and demolition of social security. you need profits, because without them there is no competition. you are revising the so-called economic governance for faster and more effective enforcement of anti-people measures, ironclad oversight and discipline, permanent memoranda for all states. you are tightening the noose on the people to get the economic machine going which is still not starting, despite the popular sacrifices and the billions you are feeding it. the crisis is in the womb of your system. you know you're not changing. and those who say they'll transform you from a slaughterhouse to a paradise are lying through their teeth. the people must learn. it is the powerful, not the monopolies, the european union, its governments and the parties that sit on their necks. so no fear and no waiting. before they take the last bite, attack now for a way out that serves the people's interests.
the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the situation in the southern part of the community. the european union has failed to tackle the crisis at an early stage and has demonstrated by its attitude that there are two sides to every story in the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all measures of economic governance, particularly the two-tier and six-tier package, are aimed at an enhanced surveillance process, at an endless economic prison where everything depends on numbers and statistics at the expense of the citizens of the countries. i assure you it is utterly foolish to try to convince our people that everything is for their own good. the greek people, like the peoples of italy, spain, portugal and soon others, cannot be plunged into economic misery because you submit to the demands of financial institutions and banking interests. finally, let us make real what we promise: sustainable development, social welfare, the fight against unemployment; as a europe of peoples and not of economic size.
mr president, i would say this to the commissioner: the commission itself admitted some weaknesses in the legislative package, such as limited transparency. one could easily add the hijacking of economic governance by informal groups without accountability, such as the eurogroup; the total eclipse of both national parliaments’ and the european parliament’s definition of fiscal reforms; and many others. all these aspects are important, as they clearly show a system which undermines the budgetary sovereignty of member states without subjecting it to a new democratic process. there is, however, a more dramatic and crucial flaw in the new rules. instead of recognising that austerity is counterproductive, they have imposed additional fiscal constraints which will exacerbate economic stagnation, a rise in unemployment and a permanent division of the eu into creditor and debtor countries. it is up to the european peoples to reverse this downward spiral and to reinstitute the european social model, and in the forthcoming elections it may be the greek people who will be the first.
mr president, i think there is a danger of confusing the mechanisms with the substance, that is to say, of criticizing the 'two-pack-six-pack', of wanting to break the thermometer in order not to see the fever that warns us of a possible economic or budgetary disease. i think we're doing well overall. there are certain successes: ireland has left the memorandum, portugal has left the memorandum, latvia and lithuania have done a good job and got their ticket to the euro, cyprus is doing well overall, from what i have been told; i am sorry to say that my country, greece, is still trying but has not succeeded. but i will tell you that the problems of greece, because i was a journalist and publisher for 35 years, i followed them before the euro and before the two-pack-six-pack and before the stabilization mechanisms, and i will tell you that they were basically the same. i mean, we were giving out big pensions, we had an overly rich welfare state that couldn't be financed by the private sector of the economy, and i'll tell our british anti-european and eurosceptic friends, who say that in greece we have huge problems because of the euro, that we used to give out pensions in greece that were 100 or even 120 percent of the last salary, whereas in the united kingdom pensions - because i read about it - were in the range of 35 to 40 percent of the last salary. the problems were therefore already there. we cannot attribute them to the euro. on the contrary, the euro makes it easier for us to restructure our debt in the future, it makes it easier, as in the case of ireland, to reduce the cost of borrowing in the future, while, with the measures taken by mr draghi, the euro is becoming less strong and it also makes it easier for countries like greece to export. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8))
answer is "blue card". i would like the interest rate our country pays to be equivalent to the interest rate paid by ireland, which has its own ten-year government bonds below 1.5%. and because ireland is, after all, a very dynamic economy, let's go to the interest rates in portugal, which are comparable to greece, which right now, if i'm not mistaken, is around 2.9%. it is a fact that interest rates in greece have gone up at this time, precisely because the markets are not sure whether we will try to complete what we are doing. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
answer is "blue card". at this point, greece's debt is public, it's no longer in the private sector, so we have a political and moral obligation to pay. we'll pay in time, of course. there is a discussion about going from 30 years to 50 years in debt restructuring to make it easier, but there are two basic conditions: there must be stable primary surpluses and the necessary structural changes must be made. so i think that this is going to be a win-win, that greece will be modernized and its creditors will be paid.
mr president, the debate we have had has shown that the enormous democratic deficit which exists in the process of the famous economic governance is a given. the commission, without democratic legitimacy, considers that it can determine the economic and social policy of the member states. it feels that it can control national budgets and dictate to national parliaments what to do. in fact, mr juncker is completely discouraged and, acting as a representative of the creditors and the troika, is illegally interfering in internal political developments in greece, supporting the memorandum coalition and the memorandum parties in the run-up to the forthcoming national elections. the same is true of mr moscovici in athens over the last 24 hours. the commissioner has already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. line up! i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
there is an ancient greek proverb which says: she was a great woman and she gave birth to a mouse. the six-pack and two-pack of economic measures failed to produce a mouse! it did not stop the looting of the people for the banks; it did not stop unemployment in greece; it did not stop the closing down of small businesses; it did not stop poverty and hunger; it did not stop suicides. the debt has increased even more. why would you do that? because it is based on the deification of money, on the notion that money produces everything. that's a mistake! money represents and exchanges values, it does not produce goods. the worker alone produces values and goods by his work. there is a study of specialists who say that if there were no theft of workers' surplus value, if there were no labour problems ....... (the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. ‒ i voted against the election of the candidate for the post of ombudsman because her views on critical political issues and their resolution are not considered satisfactory and her professional experience is not considered appropriate for the post.
in writing. ‒ the i have no objection to mrs emily o'reilly (ireland) and the institution, but i voted against because i disagree with the way the vote was taken. despite the secret ballot, he was the only candidate for the 2014-2019 term. i hope that the ombudsman will, in his role, make a unique contribution to overcoming the crisis of public confidence in the european institutions by highlighting the concerns of citizens and i believe that he will make a positive contribution to bridging the gap between them and the community institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs o'reilly's election in recognition of her previous successful tenure in the institution of the european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because council directive 93/5/ec is becoming obsolete.
in writing. ‒ council directive 93/5/ec is becoming obsolete and i therefore vote in favour of its repeal. moreover, the nature of the council directive does not require the explanatory documents provided for in the joint political declaration of the member states and the commission of 28 september 2011
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote because the la via report on the scientific examination of foodstuffs does not deal sufficiently with the scientific examination of foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal does not have a negative impact on the eusr and the nature of the council directive in this thematic area does not require the explanatory documents provided for in the joint political declaration of the member states and the commission of 28 september 2011.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation as it is an important step towards ensuring the protection of endangered species of flora and fauna through controls on international trade in specimens of these species.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the eu's accession to cites, as it is a steady step towards ensuring that the european union will be fully able to pursue the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy, having been until now merely an observer to cites.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ayuso recommendation on international trade in endangered species (cites) because the eu's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species will make a significant contribution to further protecting wild fauna and flora and curbing wildlife smuggling.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the eu's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. the restrictions contained in such international agreements are contrary to the capitalist economy itself, to the liberalisation of capital, to the pursuit of the profitability of business groups, to competitiveness and to the transfer of all natural and social goods to capital. as a transnational association of capital, the eu promotes the commercial exploitation of the species covered by the convention, effectively undermining their protection, the scope of the convention, to the benefit of monopolies. in addition, participation in the eu convention takes place in lieu of member states' responsibility. the protection of all natural and social goods requires power and economy in the hands of the people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the eu's accession to cites will lead it to achieve its environmental policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation because: (a) the gnss system is financed within the framework programme 'horizon 2020', i.e. through money belonging to european citizens, which should be used for eu member states and not for morocco, and (b) there is no reference in the report to data security issues.
in writing. ‒ i am against the conclusion of the agreement because the gnss system is financed through the horizon 2020 framework programme. this money belongs to the european citizens and should be better spent on the eu member states than on morocco. i also think that the agreement should not go ahead, since the report makes no mention of the data security issues that should be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the buzek recommendation on cooperation with morocco on a global navigation satellite system for non-military purposes (gnss), as the necessary political, legal and other conditions for the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for non-military purposes between the european community and its member states and the kingdom of morocco are not met.
in writing. ‒ horizon 2020 funding should be directed towards eu member states and not towards third countries. furthermore, the data security issues of this system are not specified.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation because at the moment any agreement with ukraine is intensifying the confrontation with russia, a situation which i consider to be disastrous for the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine. i am against it because at the moment any agreement with ukraine is intensifying the confrontation with russia, which i consider to be disastrous for the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine because i believe that at this stage the approval of this agreement does not contribute to consolidating peace in the region of ukraine.
in writing. ‒ while efforts should be made to improve relations between the eu and russia, this agreement undermines that kind of intention.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft because eu enlargement and the consequent participation of member states or acceding states in economic agreements does not contribute in the least to solving the economic problems plaguing the countries of the south and requiring urgent solution, but on the contrary widen the north-south economic divide.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement on the participation of the republic of croatia in the european economic area and three related agreements, as eu enlargement and the consequent participation of member states or acceding states in economic agreements will not in the least contribute to solving the economic problems plaguing the countries of the south and in need of urgent solution, but will instead widen the north-south economic divide.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the lambsdorff recommendation because i believe that the conditions for croatia's participation in the european economic area have not fully matured.
in writing. ‒ at this particular moment, when the economic crisis is still ongoing, any attempt to enlarge the eu and to reach economic agreements with the candidate countries on terms favourable to them does not help to solve the economic problems of the member countries; on the contrary, it exacerbates them.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because there is a risk that the tax schemes it proposes to implement will lead to the creation and maintenance of 'tax havens'. "
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a council decision on the regime governing the 'maritime contribution tax' in the french outermost regions, because there is a risk that such tax regimes will lead to the creation and maintenance of 'tax havens'. "
in writing. ‒ i voted against the mihaylova report on the maritime levy in the french outermost regions, as i do not think there is any reason to maintain a system of differentiated taxation for a range of products produced in the french outermost regions until 2020.
in writing. ‒ while each country is unique and should be considered separately, such tax interventions carry the risk of creating and maintaining 'tax havens', which are hotbeds for tax evasion
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i am totally opposed to the economic policy of reintegration, where funds are given to retraining companies instead of to the dismissed who need them most.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i am opposed to the economic policy of reintegration, where funds are given to training companies instead of to the dismissed who need them most.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the viotti report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, because the mobilisation of the fund in this case contributes to the significant relief of the dismissed whirlpool workers in the province of trento in italy and consequently strengthens the region of the european south.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adjustment fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i disagree with the economic policy of reintegration, where funds are given to retraining companies instead of to the dismissed who need them most.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i am opposed to the economic policy of reintegration, where funds are given to training companies instead of to the dismissed who need them most.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the olbrycht report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, because the mobilisation of the fund in this case contributes to the significant relief of the dismissed workers of the fiat auto poland company in tychy, poland.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adjustment fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because, although i am opposed to the economic policy of reintegration, where funds are granted to retraining companies, instead of to the dismissed who need them immediately, it concerns a greek company.
in writing. ‒ although i disagree with the economic policy of reintegration, where funds are allocated to retraining companies, instead of to the dismissed who need them directly, i support the report a8-0063/2014 because it concerns a greek company.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions, including the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i support, because it concerns greek unemployed, the argument that the funds should be given to employment programmes for the unemployed and/or dismissed and not to some companies that will be paid to train them. in greece we have a problem of unemployment and not a lack of knowledge, skills and qualifications among the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i am opposed to the economic policy of reintegration, where funds are given to retraining companies instead of to the dismissed who need them most.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i am opposed to the economic policy of reintegration, where funds are given to training companies instead of to the dismissed who need them most.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the zanni report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, because the mobilisation of the fund in this case contributes to the significant relief of the dismissed air france workers.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adjustment fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the candidates for the single resolution board, as i do not consider their experience to be satisfactory for the proposed posts.
in writing. ‒ i am against the appointment of new members of the single resolution board because i believe it will force the member states participating in the banking union to implement the resolution plan with more measures to the detriment of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the gualtieri report on the appointment of a member of the single resolution board, as i do not agree with the main points of the report.
mr president, the commission's programme for 2015 is a means of escalating the attack on the peoples of europe and a tool for restoring the profitability of business groups with permanent, even stricter supervision. you give the monopolies even more capital for investment, with the basic condition of cheap workers with flexible working relationships. the energy union, the digital single market, free trade with the united states and other restructuring measures open up new areas of profit for businesses and bring new hardship to the people. the so-called "markets", that is, capital, are neither "suppressed" nor "depressed", only overthrown and its power. we need direct popular intervention now to recover the losses, for a life without 'markets', european union and monopolies, with the people the real boss in their place.
mr president, mr juncker, is the commission's programme to intervene brutally in the internal political affairs of the member states? a few days ago, speaking of greece, you suggested that the greeks should vote for your own people and not make a mistake. excuse me, this is none of your business! would you dare, on the eve of an election, make such a statement about germany or the united kingdom? you couldn't stand as chairman of the committee for 24 hours! when did the commission decide that? on the basis of which articles of the treaties? listen, my party, the s.u.r.i.z. a, it is fighting for solutions within the eurozone, with growth, with justice, with sustainable debt, with the rule of law, with a strong welfare state. it is not this policy that is extreme but the policy of the troika, which you support, which brings unemployment, recession, inequality, an explosion of cohesion and deflation. you promised us change from the start. but you are looking more and more like mr barroso's twin brother. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr juncker, i am surprised to see you here! i thought you were going to athens to support your political friends on the ground, since mr moscovici, whom you sent to greece, has done a terrible job. with your recent statements you have expressed a political preference for certain politicians, who are known to you, as you said, in view of the forthcoming general elections in greece. who do you think you are, mr juncker? the new governor of athens? who gave you the right to interfere so rudely in the internal political situation of greece ? finally, are you the president of the commission or the representative of the troika and the creditors? the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world that has the power to do so. make the decision: you will drink the bitter cup, and you and your memorandum political friends in greece, because the greek people will send you a message in the next general election. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
madam president, an earthquake in my country, greece, which caused damage of some 147 million euros, with more than two and a half thousand houses unable to house their families, led the european solidarity union to provide some 3.5 million euros in aid. this action shows the true face of the european union. a union which creates rules and laws, to apply them when and where it suits. a union that thinks of the economic interests of the powerful states, while leaving the other countries with crumbs. a union which cannot and does not want to think that a country suffering from a huge economic crisis, a country where unemployment has reached an inhumane level and almost half of its population lives below the poverty line, cannot assess and follow the same rules as countries where similar conditions do not exist. the obvious economic and political racism of the budget and the social deficit of the dominant powers are deeply and perpendicularly at odds with the founding declaration of the union. let us all remember the principles on which the european union was built: equality, mutual cooperation and respect.
madam president, i think that the compromise reached is a positive one. first of all, most of the debts have been curbed, so the credibility of the european union has been strengthened, the basic financing of policies has been secured and there is also an image of normality, because i think that if we had gone into a budget crisis and worked with twelve-million-dollar bills, we would have had a lot of practical and political problems. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. we are still generally at 1% of the gross domestic product of the member states and the problem of own resources has not been solved. we therefore want to move forward, and the arguments of the eurosceptics and anti-europeans who are trying to reduce community funds are typical, precisely to reinforce the argument that the european union cannot work. i do not consider the money from the european budget to be wasted money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the war in syria has forced more than 3 million people to seek refuge in other countries; many of them in european union member states. following the appeal of the world food programme on december 1 to meet their needs, a total of $88 million was raised. six of them were set by the european union, which, however, insists on maintaining the dublin regulations, which put the safety, health and even the lives of these people at risk. the false common european asylum system established by these regulations is a cruel system that traps refugees in the countries of entry, that is to say in mediterranean countries such as greece and italy, which have long since outgrown their borders. even the recognition of refugee status as a priority will not ensure refugees a decent living and will not address the violations of international human rights law caused by the mass influx into these countries. we therefore call for a fairer system of responsibility sharing. the time has come for the countries of central and northern europe, which are in fact the countries of destination for migrants, to show whether they are actually implementing the principle of solidarity enshrined in the european treaties.
mr president, the suspension of the un world food programme is catastrophic. refugees are struggling to survive through the winter without the basics of food and health. the european union has also been a major contributor to the development of the middle east peace process, and the european union has been a major contributor to the peace process in the middle east. from there they try to reach europe, which they see as the promised land. you can't stop a hungry man from finding ways to survive. the united states has expressed concern and is calling on the international community to do more. but who is responsible for this situation? who brought famine and destruction to syria and forced its people to take the path of refuge? the great powers, who by means of military operations and under the pretext of so-called liberation and the restoration of democracy are trying to impose their policies. america and europe are complicit in this situation. everywhere you look, in iraq, syria and libya, the results of the interventions are disastrous. chaos and anarchy reign. the refugees, in order to escape in search of a better future, lose their lives in the waters of the mediterranean. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the treaty.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what are these ? it is cross-border crime, international crime, which includes criminal organizations involved in human trafficking, organ trafficking, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, especially money laundering, and in general fraud and crime which have never had this dimension. the second parameter is terrorism with new data, with religious motivations. this, combined with the fact that the european court of justice has suspended the application of the directive on data retention, makes it difficult to prevent the dominant area of european culture, which you mentioned, mr commissioner. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which will be taken in the light of the new information technology. it is only in this way that the phenomenon can be prevented and that the institutions, the police, the judiciary, can work together to suppress a phenomenon which cannot be prevented.
mr president, it is a fact that the internal security strategy has proved to be generally successful and therefore it should be renewed. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. i'll explain what i mean: it is well known that every year hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants flock to the countries of southern europe. from my experience in my home country, greece, i can assure you that these unfortunate people are being used by the international community as a means to implement four of the greatest threats to europe that the internal security strategy aspires to address. the threats are: trafficking in human beings, trafficking in counterfeit goods, drug trafficking and terrorism. and if you say that i am exaggerating because on the eastern border of greece, along with the national security forces, the frontex forces are also cooperating, i will answer that this is not correct, because these people are not travellers who are travelling as tourists in europe. so the problem is not solved by simply recording them. if we are to have a comprehensive structure of the homeland security strategy, it must include the danger posed by illegal immigrants.
madam president, the neo-liberal doctrine that unilateral austerity will increase investment has been tested, mr president, by the council and the commission for six years. and investment has fallen by 15%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr juncker, the package you have presented us is almost empty, because only jesus christ multiplied the fish and the loaves with the well-known miracle! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and almost everyone tells you that. but, mr della vedova, you are trying to empty mr juncker's almost empty package completely by procrastinating and making wishes. what will be the participation of the member states? by what criteria? how do you ensure that investments will ensure sustainable growth and enhance cohesion? you're not telling us anything about all this. and i'm very afraid that the summit will just lead to christmas wishes.
question of the day: blue card. madam president, mr rehn, there is a growing dangerology and propaganda these days that the victory of syriza in the likely upcoming elections in greece will mean the exit of greece from the euro area and a great disaster for the euro area itself. how do you comment on this campaign of fear?
the summit will escalate the anti-people offensive, as in the european union and nato interventions in ukraine and elsewhere, which will bring new waves of refugees. the threat of a general war is growing on the altar of competition for new energy markets and transport routes. you admit that the weak recovery may be followed by a new economic crisis which neither the advocates of restrictive policy nor those of relaxation can stop, but who agree among themselves on cheap labour, the destruction of rights, the uprooting of the peasantry, anti-people taxes. the permanent memoranda with suppression of the struggles are imposed. the people are being saddled with debts they do not owe, since public money, such as the 300 billion in the juncker package, is going to the companies. the rivalries of business groups, governments and the parties that represent them are not about popular interests. the european union is not becoming pro-people. it is time for the people to take the lead and overturn this barbarity.
question of the day: blue card. you have just spoken of respect for human rights, but the report on the european parliament's memorandum programmes, which you are co-signing, finds that there have been human rights violations in the greek programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, these programmes are obliging the member states to violate their obligations under international law. how do you justify that?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but now there is a considerable shortfall of 260 billion euros. even if we take away the construction sector, with its explosion in the late 2000s, we find that 160 billion is missing from the european union's investment programme. the juncker package of eur 315 billion, eur 16 billion from the community budget, eur 5 billion from the european central bank, the leveraging of funds and the supply, the contribution of the member states will certainly lead to the creation of one million jobs and is the answer to the investment crisis we have in the euro area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. they need to launch a global campaign to convince institutional investors, the markets in europe, in asia, in america, to support this investment program. the €300 billion investment fund is a bet with positive returns that should be the message to the markets. we need to move from the fund culture of the past to the culture of investment and risk-taking.
yesterday, instead of criticising yourself for your illegal and blatant interference in the internal political affairs of my country, you claimed that, in the name of european politics and because your political identity is known, you have the right to intervene in the internal affairs of greece. i would remind you that the treaty on european union requires the commission to maintain a policy of neutrality. finally, mr juncker, please respect the treaty on european union and stop acting as a representative of the creditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the campaign of risk-taking that you, moscovici, schäuble and his gang have been waging for some time is not going to pass. the greek people will, in the next parliamentary elections, throw the troika and the foreign creditors out of our country and proceed to write off the shameful debt for which you are personally responsible.
the european council, madam president, in keeping with the principle of robbing the people in favour of financial capital, is presenting the new programme, which is based, however, again on the deification of money. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. in fact, the council is devising ways to protect anti-people governments, as in greece, where, while the real strength of the government lacks a genuine majority - it has only 106 seats - thanks to the electoral fraud system it steals 50 seats from the other opposition parties and gains a majority to govern. that is why the president of the commission, jean-claude juncker, is intervening with unethical statements to save his own government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote.
in writing. – the council should reverse its course and abandon the neoliberal agenda of austerity; it results in economic stagnation and rising unemployment – the ‘great malaise’ in j. stiglitz’s words – and it undermines the european social model. in contrast, the opposite expansionist strategy of quantitative easing has led the usa to an imposing growth of 3,8% and a significant decrease in unemployment. similarly, ‘abenomics’, an effort to increase wages in order to boost the economy, has reversed japan’s long-term downward trajectory. these policies failed to deal with and remedy the basic cause of the eu crisis, which is the imbalance between economic integration and monetary union in the eurozone. without huge fiscal transfers, the euro inevitably leads to persistent trade imbalances between the more competitive core countries and the less competitive countries of the south. therefore, the deficits of the latter are just the flipside of the coin of the surpluses of the former. this structural deficit should be corrected by some kind of mutualisation of the debt.
in writing. i voted against the report because the granting of import levies on the above products would be a blow to the greek economy, because of the relevance of the products produced.
in writing. i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 granting autonomous trade preferences to the republic of moldova, as the granting of import duties on the above products would be a blow to the greek economy, due to the relevance of the products produced.
in writing. i voted against the moisă report on the granting of autonomous trade preferences to the republic of moldova, as it contains arrangements for preferential treatment of moldovan products which compete with greek agricultural products and therefore any implementation of this report would have harmful economic consequences for the greek farmers impoverished by the memorandum.
in writing. the granting of rebates to products produced in non-eu countries creates an economic burden on eu member states producing corresponding and related products and should not be implemented.
in writing. i voted against the report because tariff exemptions to third countries (non-eu) restrict the eu member states' exports, which exacerbates the economic recession in europe.
in writing. i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the tariff treatment of goods originating in ecuador, as tariff exemptions to third countries (non-eu) restrict the exports of eu member states, which is exacerbating the economic recession in the countries of europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the scholz report on the tariff treatment of goods originating in ecuador, because it helps to strengthen the mutual benefit of the eu and ecuador, a country which has dared and succeeded in cancelling the humiliating debt imposed on it.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the report and the proposal for a regulation on the tariff treatment of products originating in ecuador, because it is directly linked to and is conditional on ecuador's accession to the free trade agreement already signed by the eu with peru and colombia. it is an agreement to the detriment of the ecuadorian people (as well as the peoples of peru and colombia), which guarantees the eu monopolies the unhindered exploitation of its resources and people, the elimination of any obstacle to the monopolies' penetration into the markets of these countries, which will have painful consequences for workers, self-employed and poor farmers.
in writing. the granting of rebates to products produced in non-eu countries creates an economic burden on eu member states producing corresponding and related products, and therefore should not exist.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the report and the proposal for a regulation on the tariff treatment of products originating in ecuador, because it is directly linked to and is conditional on ecuador's accession to the free trade agreement already signed by the eu with peru and colombia. it is an agreement to the detriment of the ecuadorian people (as well as the peoples of peru and colombia), which guarantees the eu monopolies the unhindered exploitation of its resources and people, the elimination of any obstacle to the monopolies' penetration into the markets of these countries, which will have painful consequences for workers, self-employed and poor farmers.
in writing. i voted against the report because it does not address in a sustainable way the recent payment shortfalls and the increasing amount of balances to be cleared.
in writing. this mobilisation is unlikely to address in a sustainable way the recent payment shortfalls and the increasing amount of balances to be cleared. i therefore vote against the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin, in accordance with point 14 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management.
in writing. abstained from the vote because the deprez report on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2014 does not adequately address the relevant serious issues that it is supposed to try to address.
in writing. this mobilisation is unlikely to address in a sustainable way the recent payment shortfalls and the increasing amount of balances to be cleared.
in writing. i voted against the report because the use of special-purpose reserves as a means of repaying mistaken and frivolous policy decisions of the past undermines the credibility and solvency of the eu.
in writing. the use of special-purpose reserves as a means of reinforcing funds to repay wrong and frivolous decisions of previous policies undermines the eu's credibility and solvency, i therefore vote against draft amending budget no 3/2014
in writing. abstained from the vote because the deprez report draft amending budget no 3/2014: revenue from fines, interest, repayments and reimbursements - payment appropriations - staff lists of the commission, the committee of the regions and the european data protection supervisor does not sufficiently address the serious issues under consideration.
in writing. the use of special-purpose reserves as a means of repaying mistaken and frivolous policy decisions of the past undermines the eu's credibility and solvency.
in writing. i voted against the report because the revision of the traditional own resources is done to satisfy the policies of particular countries and not for the good of the citizens as a whole.
in writing. the revision of the provisions of the traditional own resources is done to satisfy the policies of particular countries and not for the good of the citizens as a whole. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the draft amending budget no 4/2014.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report deprez draft amending budget no 4/2014 - traditional own resources (tor), vat and gross national income (gni) bases because it adequately addresses the issues under consideration.
in writing. the revision of the provisions of the traditional own resources is done to satisfy the policies of particular countries and not for the good of the citizens as a whole.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because, although there is clearly less money available for the repair of the damage caused by the earthquake in greece (kefalonia), any help is desirable.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund: floods in italy - earthquakes in greece - snowstorms in slovenia - frost and floods in croatia, because this report sets out the financial assistance to italy, greece, slovenia and croatia for the damage suffered by natural disasters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid granted to greece is not used to finance the disaster in the mediterranean.
in writing. although there is clearly less money available to repair the damage caused by the earthquake in greece (kefalonia), all aid is going in the right direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because, although there is clearly less money available for the reconstruction of the earthquake damage in greece (kefalonia), any help is desirable.
in writing. although there is clearly less money available to repair the damage caused by the earthquake in greece (kefalonia), all aid is going in the right direction. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the application of the principle of proportionality.
in writing. i voted in favour of the deprez report draft amending budget no 5/2014: floods in italy (sardinia) in 2013 - earthquakes in greece - snowstorms in slovenia - frost and floods in croatia in 2014 because this report enters funds in the eu budget for the economic support of italy, greece, slovenia and croatia.
in writing. although there is clearly less money available to repair the damage caused by the earthquake in greece (kefalonia), all aid is going in the right direction.
in writing. i voted against the report because it moves the commitment appropriations of the 2014 mff to 2015, while reducing the corresponding appropriations in fy2015.
in writing. as draft amending budget no 6/2014: revision of the gni-based allocation of traditional own resources, vat and contributions, transfers the 2014 gni commitment appropriations to 2015 while reducing the corresponding appropriations in fy2015, i am voting against it.
in writing. absent from the vote on the deprez report on draft amending budget no 6/2014: revision of the gni-based estimate of traditional own resources, vat and contributions, as it does not adequately address the serious issues under consideration.
in writing. it transfers commitment appropriations from 2014 to 2015, while reducing the corresponding appropriations in the 2015 mff.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, even though the funds provided are very small and do not cover the needs of the countries, because all aid is desirable.
in writing. each country must be considered differently and in accordance with the specificities of the circumstances prevailing. the funds provided in this report are minimal and do not cover the needs of the countries, but all aid is in the right direction. i therefore vote in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fernandes report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund: floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria, because it sets out the financial assistance to serbia, croatia and bulgaria for damage suffered by natural disasters.
in writing. each country must be considered differently and in accordance with the specificities of the circumstances prevailing. the funds provided in this report are minimal and do not cover the needs of the countries, but all aid is in the right direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because, although the funds provided for in fp7 are very small and do not cover the needs of the countries, any help is desirable.
in writing. each country must be considered differently and in accordance with the specificities of the circumstances prevailing. in this particular fp7, the funds provided are minimal and do not cover the needs of the countries, but all aid is in the right direction. i therefore vote in favour of draft amending budget no 7/2014 for the floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria.
in writing. i voted in favour of the deprez report on draft amending budget no 7/2014: floods in serbia, croatia and bulgaria, because this report enters funds in the eu budget for the financial assistance of serbia, croatia and bulgaria.
in writing. each country must be considered differently and in accordance with the specificities of the circumstances prevailing. in this case, the funds provided for in fp7/2014 are minimal and do not cover the needs of the countries, but all assistance is in the right direction.
in writing. i voted against the report because the transfer of the 2013 surplus to the 2014 mff is not made in targeted sectors where there are real needs but as a reserve for additional payments.
in writing. the transfer of the 2013 surplus to the 2014 mff is not carried out in targeted areas where there are real needs, but as a reserve of additional payments, which means that they will be given for the benefit of those in power. i therefore vote against draft amending budget no 8/2014 for the surplus resulting from implementation in the financial year 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of the deprez report on draft amending budget no 8/2014 - surplus resulting from implementation in the financial year 2013 as it adequately addresses the issues under consideration.
in writing. the transfer of the 2013 surplus to the 2014 mff is not carried out in targeted areas where there are real needs, but as a reserve of additional payments, which means that they will be given at the whim and for the benefit of those in power.
in writing. i voted against the report because it makes the own resources system even more complex and aims to amend legislation which will soon be replaced, retroactively, by already agreed acts.
in writing. this proposal makes the own resources system even more complex and aims to amend legislation, which will soon be replaced, retroactively, by already agreed acts. i therefore vote against the system of the union's own resources - adjustments to the national contributions of the member states.
in writing. this proposal makes the own resources system even more complex and aims to amend legislation, which will soon be replaced retroactively by already agreed acts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i remain convinced that the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. the eu must be flexible when there are reasons to compensate countries affected by natural disasters. i am voting in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for disaster areas.
in writing. i vote against the mureşan report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund: disaster-affected areas, because it sets out the financial support for the regions concerned for the damage they have suffered.
in writing. the eu must be flexible when there are reasons to compensate countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it concerns the full financing of the additional funds for the cypriot structural funds programmes.
in writing. i vote against the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in favour of the structural funds programmes for cyprus, as it concerns the full financing of the additional funds for the structural funds programmes of cyprus.
in writing. i voted in favour of the rubial report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in favour of structural fund programmes for cyprus, because it is a way of giving financial aid to cyprus, which has been impoverished by the memoranda imposed on it by the troika.
in writing. the full financing of the additional funds for cyprus' structural funds programmes is in a positive direction.
in writing. i voted against the draft general budget because it shifts the eu's centre of gravity more towards numbers and economic power than towards its own citizens and meeting their needs.
in writing. it shifts the eu's focus more towards numbers and economic power than towards its own citizens to meet their needs. i therefore vote against the new general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015.
in writing. i voted against the new draft general budget of the european union - financial year 2015 because it is a budget that supports the bureaucracy in brussels.
in writing. it shifts the eu's focus more towards numbers and economic power than towards its own citizens, to meet their needs.
in writing. i voted against the report because it shifts the eu's focus more towards numbers and economic power than towards its own citizens and meeting their needs.
in writing. it shifts the eu's centre of gravity more towards numbers and financial power than towards its own citizens to meet their needs, which is why i am voting against the report on the council's position on the new draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015.
in writing. i voted against the rubial and hohlmeier report on the new general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, because on the one hand it is an austerity budget at the service of the europe of the banks and the bureaucracy and on the other hand this budget does not strengthen solidarity and cohesion within the eu, as it does not provide sufficient funds to support the mediterranean countries impoverished by partial austerity.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament votes against the eu budget because it is deeply anti-people. it is the economic basis of the so-called structural reforms, which are directed against the working people, serving the needs of capital's competitiveness. the expressions of satisfaction by the political staff of the monopolies in the european parliament for the agreement with the council on the 2015 budget attempt to hide its anti-people content. the increase in funds compared with those proposed by the council relates exclusively to the financing of business groups for investments in profitable sectors such as energy, 'green technologies', the digital market, research programmes in the service of capital, strengthening europol, frontex, the eu's external action service, all the eu's repressive mechanisms and political and military instruments for its imperialist interventions. the eu budget is another tool, alongside those of bourgeois governments, for draining the people's incomes, which are channelled in a multitude of forms and mechanisms to the monopolies and the institutions that shield their power.
in writing. it shifts the eu's focus more towards numbers and economic power than towards its own citizens, to meet their needs.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament votes against the eu budget because it is deeply anti-people. it is the economic basis of the so-called structural reforms, which are directed against the working people, serving the needs of capital's competitiveness. the expressions of satisfaction by the political staff of the monopolies in the european parliament for the agreement with the council on the 2015 budget attempt to hide its anti-people content. the increase in funds compared with those proposed by the council concerns exclusively the financing of business groups for investments in profitable sectors such as energy, 'green technologies', the digital market, research programmes in the service of capital, strengthening europol, frontex, the eu's external action service, all the eu's repressive mechanisms and political and military instruments for its imperialist interventions. the eu budget is another tool, alongside those of bourgeois governments, for draining the people's incomes, which are channelled in a multitude of forms and mechanisms to the monopolies and the institutions that shield their power.
in writing. i voted against proposal b8-0325/2014 as it opposes the adoption of the commission's draft regulation, considering it incompatible with the purpose and content of the regulation and furthermore inviting the commission to withdraw it by submitting a new list of serious infringements of union rules, which lead to the loss of the required guarantees of the road haulage operator's credibility.
in writing. i support the proposal b8-0325/2014 as it opposes the adoption of the commission's draft regulation, considers that the draft is not compatible with the purpose and content of the regulation and furthermore calls on the commission to withdraw it by submitting to the committee a new list of serious infringements of union rules which lead to the loss of the required guarantees of the road haulage company's credibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission regulation supplementing regulation (ec) no 1071/2009 of the european parliament and of the council as regards the classification of serious infringements of union rules which may lead to the loss of the required road haulier's reliability and amending annex iii to directive 2006/22/ec of the european parliament, despite the reservations i expressed during the debate, as it sets out a first approach to this issue which should be guided by the limitation of unfair competition, social dumping which is critical in the field of transport, road safety and respect for the labour rights of hauliers.
in writing. the commission's decision is a deliberate attempt to encourage the absence of basic safety rules in transport, which is a key element in the policy of supporting business groups. the inhumane exploitation by employers of road transport workers, with their appalling working conditions, endangers their lives and the health of those who travel with them and is responsible for hundreds of deaths and injuries. working hours beyond human endurance, poor maintenance, overloading of vehicles even with dangerous loads, illegal inland transport exploiting cheap labour and relying on the so-called freedom of movement of services and workers in the eu are profit-making incentives, criteria for the competitiveness of transport companies. the individual objections of the political groups in the european parliament to the commission's decision, on the basis of existing problems, are raised in the light of business competition. not only do they not solve the problem, but they are moving within the framework of the eu single market and the policy of low labour costs and corporate profitability. transport workers must demand humane working conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. the eu can only be built on the over-exploitation of workers. there is no solution in it but in the disengagement from it, in conflict with the monopolies and their power.
in writing. the commission should draft and present a new regulation containing an updated list of serious infringements of eu rules which lead to the loss of the required reliability of the road haulage operator.
in writing. the commission's decision is a deliberate attempt to encourage the absence of basic safety rules in transport, which is a key element in the policy of supporting business groups. the inhumane exploitation by employers of road transport workers in appalling working conditions endangers their lives and health and that of other road users, and is responsible for hundreds of deaths and injuries. working hours beyond human endurance, poor maintenance, overloading of vehicles even with dangerous loads, illegal inland transport exploiting cheap labour and relying on the so-called freedom of movement of services and workers in the eu are profit-making incentives, criteria for the competitiveness of transport companies. the individual objections of the political groups in the european parliament to the commission's decision, on the basis of existing problems, are raised in the light of business competition. not only do they not solve the problem, but they are moving within the framework of the eu single market and the policy of low labour costs and corporate profitability. transport workers must demand humane working conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. the eu can only be built on the over-exploitation of workers. there is no solution in it but in the disengagement from it, in conflict with the monopolies and their power.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution because it opposes the adoption of the draft directive, which does not provide for the submission of a report on the origin of the raw materials used.
in writing. i vote against the proposal for a council directive laying down the calculation methods and reporting requirements pursuant to directive 98/70/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels (which opposes the adoption of the draft directive), as it does not provide for reporting on the basis of the origin of the raw materials used.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft council directive .../.../eu laying down the calculation methods and reporting requirements pursuant to directive 98/70/ec of the european parliament and of the council relating to the quality of petrol and diesel fuels, as it adequately regulates this issue.
in writing. the draft directive on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels should provide for reporting on the origin of the raw materials used.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because it seeks to reject the application of the delegated regulation, the application of which would endanger the survival of fish species.
in writing. i am voting against the introduction of a discard plan in the baltic sea, as the implementation of the delegated regulation would result in endangering the survival of fish species.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution on the commission's delegated regulation of 20 october on the establishment of a baltic sea discard plan, because it does not regulate this issue properly and adequately.
in writing. any action that promotes the protection of marine and aquatic life is in the right direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because it raises an objection to the commission's delegated regulation.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the resolution, since it raises an objection to the commission's delegated regulation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the annex to the commission delegated regulation (eu) supplementing directive 2009/138/eu of the european parliament and of the council on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) because it adequately and appropriately regulates this issue.
in writing. the committee on economic and monetary affairs did not table such a resolution, with the result that article 105 (4) of the regulation applies and applies to a resolution tabled in the december 2014 plenary session, therefore the delegated regulation cannot enter into force.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution b8-0350/2014 because it deprives the member states of their national sovereignty.
in writing. i am against the motion for a resolution b8-0350/2014 because it deprives the member states of their national sovereignty and i cannot trust the european union to label the radical as such, since it is making this assessment on the basis of political criteria.
in writing. this proposal deprives the member states of their national sovereignty.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i support the recognition of the palestinian state and i condemn the european union's relationship with israel, while agreeing to the strict exclusion of the application of the eu-israel agreements.
in writing. i am in favour because i support the palestinian state and its security, i condemn the european union's relationship with israel and i agree with the strict exclusion of the implementation of the eu-israel agreements. i also sympathize with the situation in the war zone and support the peace negotiations.
in writing. — i abstained from the vote on the joint resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state although i strongly support the recognition of the palestinian state, its people and its borders as a precondition for peace in the region. member states must formally recognise and thus protect the space of the palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as the capital. however, the resolution fails to fully recognise the palestinian people’s right to self-determination and demonstrate the responsibilities of the israeli state for the continuation of the war and the humanitarian crisis in palestine. therefore, i could not vote in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the recognition of the state of palestine because this historic resolution sets the stage for the recognition of the state of palestine, which was a just and lasting demand of the overwhelming majority of world public opinion.
in writing. the european parliament's kke group voted with serious reservations on the resolution referring to the 'recognition in principle of the palestinian state'. the resolution leaves out the demands of the palestinian people against the israeli occupation of palestinian territory and does not respond to the rights of the palestinian people. the resolution also cultivates the logic of equal distances, while restricting the right of the palestinian people to struggle in all its forms. at the same time, the eu is being glamorised and illusions are being sown about its role. the kke expresses its full support for the struggle of the palestinian people and its continuation, demanding: - the creation of an independent, viable, sovereign palestinian state, on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital, next to israel, the liberation of the palestinian people from israeli occupation. - the recognition of the state of palestine as a member of the un; the commission has also proposed that the greek authorities should be given the opportunity to present their observations on the application of the acquis communautaire to the acquis communautaire. - the cessation of settlements and the departure of all settlers. - the tearing down of the unacceptable wall in jerusalem. - the return of all palestinian refugees to their homes, in accordance with relevant un resolutions. - the lifting of all blockades of palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip. - the immediate release of all palestinian and other political prisoners from israeli prisons.
in writing. we support the palestinian state entity and look forward to a safe and good neighbourhood with israel. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the situation in the region is not further destabilised by the threat of a nuclear war. hostile and violent clashes on both sides benefit no one and most of all the ordinary citizens
in writing. the european parliament's kke group voted with serious reservations on the resolution referring to the 'recognition in principle of the palestinian state'. the resolution leaves out the demands of the palestinian people against the israeli occupation of palestinian territory and does not respond to the rights of the palestinian people. the resolution also cultivates the logic of equal distances, while restricting the right of the palestinian people to struggle in all its forms. at the same time, the eu is being glamorised and illusions are being sown about its role. the kke expresses its full support for the struggle of the palestinian people and its continuation, demanding: - the creation of an independent, viable, sovereign palestinian state, on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital, next to israel, the liberation of the palestinian people from israeli occupation. - the recognition of the state of palestine as a member of the un; the commission has also proposed that the greek authorities should be given the opportunity to present their observations on the application of the acquis communautaire to the acquis communautaire. - the cessation of settlements and the departure of all settlers. - the tearing down of the unacceptable wall in jerusalem. - the return of all palestinian refugees to their homes, in accordance with relevant un resolutions. - the lifting of all blockades of palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip. - the immediate release of all palestinian and other political prisoners from israeli prisons.
mr president, i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution, which i am supporting, because i want to support the jobs that steel creates in europe, in greece, in eleusis, in magnesia, in thessaloniki. the commission also found that the average price of the product concerned in the union market was lower than the average price of the product concerned in the union market. compared to the pre-crisis levels in 2007, domestic demand decreased by 82%. the commission also found that the greek steel industry was not able to recover from the past injury. i want to tell you that at the same time the bank liabilities for the three largest steel companies in greece exceed 1 billion euros. you understand that the situation is dramatic first of all for the workers there. i therefore think it is necessary to exhaust all possibilities for reducing energy costs, to reduce the energy cost gap in the member states, and also to ensure that a trade mark for fair steel products made in europe is created and promoted immediately.
in writing. i voted against the proposal because it is a wish list which does not suggest any serious and credible solutions to the deliberate deindustrialization of the eu member states and the social problems it entails.
in writing. i am voting against the motion for a resolution steel in the eu: protecting workers and industrial sectors, as it encourages the use of financial instruments and tax breaks to attract private capital, without any significant reference to job preservation.
in writing. i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on steel in the eu: protecting workers and industrial sectors because, as i pointed out in my speech to the european parliament, it does not protect workers' rights and does not support the development of the european steel industry.
in writing. we cannot rely on wish lists without serious, worthy and credible solutions to the deliberate deindustrialization of the eu member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the community's energy policy.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution b8-0362/2014 because the reasons for illegal immigration should have been considered. i am also opposed to funding for the implementation of resettlement programmes for migrants in the member states of the european union.
in writing. i am against the motion for a resolution b8-0362/2014 because the reasons for illegal immigration should have been considered. i also oppose the funding for the implementation of resettlement programmes for migrants in the member states of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a holistic eu approach to migration, because it sets out a first response to the critical issue of migration flows, despite the significant reservations i have already expressed in my continuous speeches to the european parliament.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and eu migration policy seeks to strengthen the eu's common anti-migration policy and governments' enforcement of frontex by further funding it by member states. this policy has already led to the deaths of thousands of migrants and refugees, who, in their attempt to escape poverty, hunger and the imperialist interventions of the us, the eu and nato in their homelands, are confronted with human trafficking networks and repressive forces. the increasing waves of immigration are the result of imperialist interventions to control the sources of wealth and energy, of capital's need for cheap labour. we demand immediate measures to welcome, shelter and provide relief for migrants and refugees; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council of ministers, and that the council should be given the right to vote in the european parliament.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the situation in the mediterranean and eu migration policy seeks to strengthen the eu's common anti-migration policy and governments' enforcement of frontex by further funding it by member states. this policy has already led to the deaths of thousands of migrants and refugees, who, in their attempt to escape poverty, hunger and the imperialist interventions of the us, the eu and nato in their homelands, are confronted with human trafficking networks and repressive forces. the increasing waves of immigration are the result of imperialist interventions to control the sources of wealth and energy, of capital's need for cheap labour. we demand immediate measures to welcome, shelter and provide relief for migrants and refugees; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council of ministers, and that the council should be given the right to vote in the european parliament.
the cia torture is not surprising. the united states and its intelligence agencies to date have a rich history of imperialist interventions, junta, coups, savage torture, cold-blooded murder of african americans. the european union has long been seen as the champion of human rights. the common foreign and security policy, europol, eurojustice, all the european union and nato repression mechanisms are partners and allies of the cia. the member states of the european union are cooperating with the united states in many areas of repression of the popular labour movement. they also cooperate in state and industrial espionage, telephone and internet surveillance, and cover up inhumane torture. all of this is not a contradiction of the capitalist system but its true face. their goal is to defend capitalist exploitation against the enemy people. this is the dictatorship of the monopolies and the people can make their own decisions to overthrow it with their own power. they have the power.
the inhumane practices used by the cia under president bush to interrogate detainees are evidence of the real lack of respect for human rights that characterizes the dominant political forces in the united states. on the one hand, they are acting as vigilantes, issuing annual reports on the situation of fundamental rights in third countries, while on the other hand they are themselves in flagrant violation of the convention against torture which they signed in 1994. the union's attitude is not much different. while the european union claims to protect fundamental rights, in practice, in recent years, it has systematically trampled on them, especially social rights, through the imposition of devastating austerity policies. long-term unemployment, lack of medical care, inability to heat homes in winter, all amount to economic torture. the european governments promised the peoples of europe a paradise and are serving up hell. change course before you destroy europe!
in writing. the modern international and european legal arsenal is undoubtedly based on an unshakable central pillar: the absolute protection of human rights, which includes the explicit prohibition of the use of torture for any reason. the debate on this subject is unfortunately opened up each time by some unpleasant revelation, such as the fact that european soil has recently been used by the cia to torture terrorism suspects into confessing. although the european union, through its institutional and legal instruments, has repeatedly condemned such behaviour, one can reasonably wonder what is happening behind closed doors, especially in view of the intensified fight against terrorism and the attempt to prevent a terrorist attack in europe. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union's policy on torture, and it has been a key player in the development of the european union's policy on torture. it seems that despite our strict legal tradition, which is totally opposed to such practices, we must also be vigilant in the eu about the self-evident right to protection against any form of state or police violence, which may ultimately be exercised with our tolerance or ignorance, but which makes us complicit. in the europe of justice, torture is neither acceptable nor should it be allowed or even condoned.
question of the day: blue card. i would like to know what your opinion is after you have expressed your opinion about turkey which we all know violates human rights and persecutes political thought about the persecution in greece against the popular association golden dawn ? our leader and eight mps are being held on baseless charges, and it's so hypocritical that no one in this chamber is dealing with this issue.
recently erdogan said that he does not accept lessons in democracy from europe. once upon a time, a farmer, in winter, found a frozen snake, took pity on it, took it and put it in his hive. the snake at some point, after warming up and regaining consciousness, bit its benefactor. when he breathed his last, he said, "it is good for me to be in this condition, since i have shown mercy to a criminal". the above-mentioned tale is from the myths of aesop. but it is fully in line with today's reality. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. the european union is a country of extreme authoritarianism, which does not respect the rights of individuals and states and ignores the decisions of international organizations! so don't be surprised by the lack of freedom of expression in turkey and the persecution of media and journalists. the blood of the anti-government protesters in taksim square in istanbul has not yet dried. ask, read, research and realize: illegal invasion and occupation of part of cyprus, a member state of the european union, and aggression in its eez; genocide of the ponts and the armenians; the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the region. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of the hostages and for the immediate release of the hostages of the kurdish people. the european union has a duty to ensure that the turkish authorities are not forced to accept the turkish people's demands. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to condemn the recent attempt by the turkish government to silence the press and to tighten control of the internet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. the european union is also committed to the development of the turkish economy, and the turkish authorities are fully aware of the need to ensure that the turkish economy is not affected by the economic crisis. last year we had the violent repression of the demonstrations in the center of istanbul; more recently we have encountered the ambiguous stance of the turkish government regarding the international coalition's fight against isis jihadists; the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in cyprus, and we are therefore calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to exercise their right to freedom of expression. unfortunately, all of this is evidence that erdogan is leading turkey away from the principles and values of the european union.
madam president, turkey is continuing its familiar tactic: it is a brutal violation of the democratic rights of citizens and minorities. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. it is therefore confirmed once again that this country does not respect the basic democratic principles of modern europe. but when a regime is not democratic, then this is also reflected in its foreign policy. the turkish government has thus illegally maintained the casus belli against greece insofar as my country has applied the international law of the sea in a disproportionate manner and has extended its territorial waters to 12 nautical miles. the commission has also been working on the issue of the protection of the environment in the mediterranean, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the european parliament must take turkey's message to heart and call on it to withdraw its occupying forces from cyprus immediately and to respect international law. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
answer is "blue card". turkey has shown all this time, for decades, that it respects neither international law nor democratic rights. the time has come for the european union to say: 'finally, it is over!' we cannot tolerate the presence of turkish occupation troops in cyprus. that's clear. do you understand what this means? infringement of the sovereignty of a member state of the european union.
the european union has also made a number of proposals to the council, which is the only body in the european union that has been able to do so. the european union is also committed to the development of the democratic process in georgia, and the democratic process in the country is based on the principles of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. i would therefore like to call on the competent authorities in georgia to fully respect the rights of the greek minority, which has lived and worked in georgia for hundreds of years. in this context, the georgian authorities must ensure: first, the unhindered return to their homes of all greek poles who so wish; secondly, to hand over to them their homes which have been illegally occupied by third parties; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i expect decisive action from you, mr. avramopoulos. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east.
mr president, 200,000 people, most of them young people, have emigrated in recent years because they were persecuted by the regime in their country. economic migrants on the verge of poverty, unemployed, without decent medical care, leaving behind homes at risk of bank foreclosure. this country is not sudan, nor is it part of sub-saharan africa. it is greece, a member state of the european union. but unfortunately it has a lot in common with the country you're thinking of helping today. these 200,000 greeks, who have emigrated because of the crisis, are young scientists up to 40 years old. bright minds with a hunger for work but no future in my home country of greece. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economies and to ensure that they are able to cope with the challenges of the future. we know better, because we are dealing with it ourselves, faced with the european union, which is forcing us to accept illegal immigrants in our country, as the dublin ii treaty stipulates. but it is foolish for the european union to fund programmes to restrict immigration from africa when it is not interested in reducing internal migration caused by its bad policies. the internal migration flow proves that the countries of the vigorous north, condemning the countries of the south to economic withering and impoverishment, attract the most valuable human resources.
the commissioner, in order to limit the flow of migrants from the countries of the horn of africa, must eliminate the root causes of this problem, which force people to leave these areas. and of course, the first and most important thing is to overthrow the dictatorial regimes that exist in the countries of the horn of africa, to restore and support democracy there, to stop the persecution, to protect human rights. secondly, there must be peace in the region, because as long as we have a state of war in various places, problems are created and, obviously, people have to leave, they have to save their lives. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. the european union must also make a contribution to the development of the european union, and in particular to the development of the european union's relations with the countries of the south. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the bloody conflicts in venezuela this year began with the attempt by the far right to overthrow the democratically elected government of maduro by force. instead of the political forces in power in the european parliament dismissing the venezuelan government, and even selectively using elements from the report of the united nations high commissioner for human rights, al-hussein, they would do better to deal with the corresponding report of the united nations high commissioner for human rights, sefas lumina, which finds systematic violations of fundamental rights in greece, the memorandum, because of the policies of austerity imposed by the troika and ecofin. and instead of lessons in democracy in venezuela, they had better show more respect for democratic procedures in the member states of the union and stop trying to blackmail the consciences of greek parliamentarians and voters with the threats of bankruptcy, exit from the eurozone and other similar ones that we have heard in recent days. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr buchner, i have to go. terror and torture are wrong no matter where they come from. but we have legal proceedings here against people who have committed crimes in venezuela.
mr president, it may be hard to believe, but in the 21st century, more than 20% of the population of mauritania are slaves. the government of the country, instead of trying to deal with this unacceptable situation, did something simpler: he arrested mr. abed, the president of an anti-slavery activist organization, on baseless charges as well as some of the members of his organization. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but when the same attitude is adopted by a government of a democratic country, such as the government of greece, which, following the brutal intervention of the prime minister in the judiciary, has illegally kept in prison for 14 months the leader, members of parliament and officials of greece's third largest political party, golden dawn, why do we not show the same sensitivity? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i mention it to show how much hypocrisy there is in this room. if you think i'm wrong and i'm wronging you, please by your behavior refute me.
the resolution is a resolution on human rights, without political overtones, as was the previous resolution on venezuela. slavery is widespread in mauritania and the persecution of human rights activists and biram dah abeid must stop. i therefore condemn the slavery that exists in mauritania. i support the resolution, and the european parliament is rightly concerned with the protection of human rights. but it must do the same for the violation of human rights in the european union itself, in the countries which are under a memorandum; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have reached the point where the commission has said, in answer to a question, that it cannot respect human rights in the case of greece because the memorandum is being applied there. it is unacceptable and we condemn it. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
in writing. i voted against the motion to reject the request of the philippines, which is engaged in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. in addition, the philippines illegally uses mainly women and children for forced labour in fishing.
in writing. the commission has been given a yellow card and has opened proceedings against the philippines for illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the un also notes that the trafficking of people, especially women and children, for the purpose of forced labour is widespread in various sectors, such as agriculture, construction, fisheries, processing and services, in the philippines.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 19 august amending annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences, as it deals adequately and appropriately with the subject matter it regulates.
in writing. i voted against the proposal, as i am opposed to the existence of the single resolution fund and to advance contributions to financial resolution arrangements.
in writing. we generally disagree with the existence of the single resolution fund and advance contributions to financial resolution arrangements.
in writing. i voted against the recommendation for a decision not to raise objections to the commission delegated regulation of 21 october 2014 supplementing directive 2014/59/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 15 may 2014 on ex ante contributions to financial restructuring arrangements, as i do not agree with the delegation of power to the commission in this matter. moreover, that recommendation does not adequately address the issues it purports to address.
in writing. we generally disagree with the existence of the single resolution fund and advance contributions to financial resolution arrangements.
in writing. i voted against the report because enlargement of the eu by admitting the economically weakest serves only the interests of the economically strongest states, without solving the crisis affecting the countries of the south, and in the long run will have economic and social consequences for the acceding states similar to those experienced by our country.
in writing. the report should be voted on, as enlargement of the eu to include the economically weakest states serves only the interests of the economically strong states, without resolving the crisis affecting the countries of the south, and in the long term will have economic and social consequences for the acceding states similar to those experienced by our country.
in writing. i abstained from the vote on the mamikins report on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, because i do not consider that the political, geostrategic and economic conditions for the conclusion and subsequent application of the agreement have matured.
in writing. at the present time, when the economic crisis is still ongoing, economic agreements with third countries on terms favourable to them do not contribute to solving the economic problems of the member states; it's actually making them worse.
in writing. i voted against the recommendation, as the enlargement of trade partners (with third countries looking to join the eu) serves only the interests of economically powerful states, without solving the crisis affecting the countries of the south, and in the long run will bring about economic consequences for the contracting third states equivalent to those experienced by our country.
in writing. it is proposed that the recommendation be voted on, as the enlargement of trade partners (with third countries seeking eu membership) serves only the interests of economically powerful states, without resolving the crisis affecting the countries of the south, and in the long term will have economic consequences for the contracting third states corresponding to those experienced by our country.
in writing. i abstained from the vote on the mamikins report on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, because i do not consider that the political, geostrategic and economic conditions for the conclusion and subsequent application of the agreement have matured.
in writing. at the present time, when the economic crisis is still ongoing, economic agreements with third countries on terms favourable to them do not contribute to solving the economic problems of the member states; it's actually making them worse.
